http://www.komotv.com/news/business/7441041.html	EADS swings to 1st-quarter loss, dragged down by Airbus | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Business EADS swings to 1st-quarter loss, dragged down by Airbus Story Published: May 10, 2007 at 8:41 AM PDT Story Updated: May 10, 2007 at 8:41 AM PDT PARIS (AP) - European Aeronautic Defence & Space Co. NV said Thursday it swung to a loss in the first quarter, dragged down by its commercial aircraft division Airbus, which has been plagued by a weak dollar and industrial problems. The company reported a first-quarter net loss of 10 million euros ($13.54 million), after a net profit of 522 million euros a year earlier. EADS said it had been affected by the weak dollar, charges related to a new restructuring plan for Airbus and exceptional costs related to the A380 superjumbo program, all of which eroded profit margins. The loss was smaller than the average estimate of 273 million euros ($369.51 million) of eight analysts polled by Dow Jones Newswires. Earnings before interest, tax and other expenses plunged to 89 million euros ($120 million) from 791 million euros in the first three months of 2006. Revenue for the first quarter was roughly stable at 9 billion euros ($12.18 billion), from 9.1 billion euros a year before. EADS Chief Financial Officer Hans Peter Ring told shareholders last week that the Airbus unit is expected to post another hefty loss this year but could return to profitability in 2008. In its statement, EADS reaffirmed its full-year earnings guidance that group earnings before interest and taxes, or EBIT, will remain stable while revenue should decrease less than 10 percent, assuming a 1.30 euro-dollar exchange rate. The company had sales in 2006 of 39.43 billion euros ($53.37 billion). To improve its profitability and increase its performance against Boeing Co., Airbus has launched a cost-cutting program known as Power8 that would slash 10,000 jobs over four years and includes the possible sale or closure of some plants. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Passenger killed on Interstate 5 by loose truck wheels Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/business/7440886.html	Viacom's first-quarter earnings down 36 percent | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Business Viacom's first-quarter earnings down 36 percent Story Published: May 10, 2007 at 8:36 AM PDT Story Updated: May 10, 2007 at 8:36 AM PDT NEW YORK (AP) - Viacom Inc.'s earnings fell 36 percent in the first quarter, weighed down by higher marketing expenses for movies and a restructuring charge at its MTV group, the media company reported Thursday, but the results still beat analysts' estimates. Viacom, which is controlled by media mogul Sumner Redstone and split up from CBS Corp. a year ago, earned $202.9 million, or 29 cents a share. in the three months ending March 31, down from $317.2 million, or 43 cents a share, a year earlier. In addition to MTV, Viacom also owns Paramount Pictures, DreamWorks,VH1 and BET. Excluding the after-tax cost of $35 million for the charges at MTV, the per-share earnings were equivalent to 34 cents, ahead of the 32 cents that analysts were expecting, according to Thomson Financial. Revenues grew 16 percent to $2.75 billion. Viacom's Class B non-voting shares rose 27 cents to $42.29 in early trading Thursday, close to the top of their 52-week range of $32.42 and $43. The shares are up 2.4 percent so far this year; CBS's shares are up 1.8 percent. Operating income fell 29 percent to $442.8 million from $623.5 million a year ago, weighed down by the restructuring charge at MTV Networks, and an increase of $170 million in advertising costs in the United States at Viacom's movie division. MTV Networks said in February that it was cutting 250 jobs, or about 6 percent of its work force, in an effort to cut costs and build up its businesses online and in new networks. In addition to MTV, the MTV Networks division also includes VH1, Comedy Central and Country Music Television. Viacom's movie group, which includes Paramount and DreamWorks, booked more advertising costs in the first quarter compared with the same period a year ago, particularly on "Blades of Glory," which opened at the end of the quarter, and "Disturbia," which opened just after the end of the period. Viacom didn't provide a breakdown of how much was spent marketing each movie. Viacom is currently battling with Google Inc.'s YouTube, the No. 1 video site on the Internet, claiming that the site is illegally displaying copyright-protected clips from popular Viacom-owned programs like Comedy Central's "The Daily Show with Jon Stewart" and Nickelodeon's "SpongeBob SquarePants." Google says YouTube complies with copyright laws and takes down any material flagged by copyright owners as being unauthorized. On a conference call with analysts, Viacom CEO Philippe Dauman reaffirmed the company's goal of achieving $500 million in revenues from digital businesses this year. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Passenger killed on Interstate 5 by loose truck wheels Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/business/7440931.html	JetBlue names COO Barger to replace founder Neeleman as CEO | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Business JetBlue names COO Barger to replace founder Neeleman as CEO Story Published: May 10, 2007 at 8:38 AM PDT Story Updated: May 10, 2007 at 8:38 AM PDT NEW YORK (AP) - JetBlue Airways Corp. replaced founder David Neeleman as CEO less than three months after operating snafus essentially shut down the carrier for days and frayed relations with customers. The low-fare airline on Thursday appointed Chief Operating Officer Dave Barger as its new chief executive, effective immediately. Neeleman had been chief executive since 1998 and will retain his role as chairman. The move comes after storms on Valentine's Day and St. Patrick's Day essentially shut JetBlue down, forcing the cancellation of nearly 1,700 flights and stranding thousands of travelers throughout the Northeast. To prevent a recurrence, JetBlue drafted a "customer bill of rights," the gist of which is that the company now issues vouchers to some customers who experience delays. The canceled flights and vouchers cost JetBlue $41 million, contributing to the company's first quarter loss of $22 million, or 12 cents a share. That was an improvement over the year-ago quarter, but was less than analysts had originally expected. Last month, JetBlue lowered expectations for the rest of the year. In a statement, Neeleman characterized the change as "a natural evolution" of JetBlue's leadership structure. Barger, 49, will retain his role as president. He joined JetBlue as president and chief operating officer shortly after Neeleman founded the airline in 1998. Shares of the airline, which operates more than 575 flights daily to 52 destinations, jumped 54 cents, or 5.1 percent, to $10.94 in morning trading. The stock is off 35 percent since mid-January, when it hit an intraday high of $17.02. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Passenger killed on Interstate 5 by loose truck wheels Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/business/7461997.html	Alabama chosen by ThyssenKrupp for $4.2 billion steel plant | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Business Alabama chosen by ThyssenKrupp for $4.2 billion steel plant A steel worker takes a sample at the blast furnace of ThyssenKrupp steel company in Duisburg, western Germany, in this Sept. 22, 2005 file photo. Story Published: May 11, 2007 at 8:58 AM PDT Story Updated: May 11, 2007 at 8:58 AM PDT FRANKFURT, Germany (AP) - Steelmaker ThyssenKrupp AG said Friday it will build a new $4.19 billion steel plant in Alabama, which has attracted other German companies including DaimlerChrysler AG in recent years. The plant - scheduled to open in 2010 and employ as many as 2,700 workers when fully operational - will be near Mobile. The company was lured by several tax breaks and a $400 million incentives package. The Duesseldorf-based company chose Alabama over Louisiana, which also had offered tax breaks. It would be the company's first steelmaking operation in the United States, processing carbon steel and stainless steel for automakers, electrical companies, appliance manufacturers and more. The new plant would be "an integral part of the company's plan to increase growth in the steel and stainless steel division in North America and Europe," supervisory board chairman Ekkehard Schulz said in a statement. Initially, the company had said the project would run some $2.9 billion, but raised the amount to nearly $4.2 billion because "higher capacities and extended plant configurations were shown to be feasible and economic." The company said that once the plant is up and running, it could create as many as 38,000 new jobs related to the mill, from suppliers to transportation to dining and entertainment. In a statement Friday morning, Gov. Bob Riley said a "project this size, with this amount of economic impact, comes along perhaps once in a generation." Louisiana Gov. Kathleen Blanco said it was a "tremendous honor" to be one of two finalists among 20 states that had bid for the project. "Our success with this project demonstrates Louisiana has established a stronghold in the global economy and can successfully compete for world-class projects," she said in a statement. Low-cost slabs will be supplied from a new steel mill in near Rio de Janeiro that is scheduled to start production in 2009 with a capacity of 5 million tons of slabs per year. The new North American plant will process the slabs. "This combination of cost and quality leadership can only be achieved with the new steel mill. At the same time, ThyssenKrupp is investing over 700 million euros ($946.89 million) to strengthen its German facilities and its market position in Europe," he said, adding that the special feature of the steel mill is that it will be a combined plant for flat carbon steel and stainless steel. Shares of ThyssenKrupp were down 2.3 percent in midday trading. The announcement after the company, one of the world's biggest steelmakers, said Friday that its second-quarter net profit fell 44 percent because of a multimillion-dollar fine levied by the European Union. The company, whose products range from automotive parts and elevators to slabs of steel, earned 244 million euros ($330 million) in the January-March period, compared with 441 million euros a year earlier. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Passenger killed on Interstate 5 by loose truck wheels Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/business/7440971.html	Retailers post weak April sales | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Business Retailers post weak April sales Story Published: May 10, 2007 at 8:39 AM PDT Story Updated: May 10, 2007 at 8:39 AM PDT NEW YORK (AP) - Rising gasoline prices and the slumping housing market kept consumers out of stores last month, leaving many of the nation's merchants with disappointing sales results. As retailers released their April sales figures Thursday, weak performers included Wal-Mart Stores Inc., which recorded a rare drop in business, as well as J.C. Penney Co. and Federated Department Stores Inc. "Consumers are feeling pressured by higher gasoline prices and a sluggish housing market, particularly low and middle income consumers," said Ken Perkins, president of RetailMetrics LLC, a research company in Swampscott, Mass. Analysts had already expected last month to be weak after an early Easter motivated many consumers to do their holiday shopping in March, siphoning away part of April's business. But sales were much softer than expected, raising concerns that retailers will also see disappointing results in the months ahead. Perkins and other analysts say they will be closely watching how May fares since the month will provide a better indication of the health of the consumer. Wal-Mart reported a 3.5 percent decline in same-store sales, or sales at stores open at least a year. Same-store sales are considered the best indicator of a retailer's performance. Analysts surveyed by Thomson Financial had expected a 1.1 percent decrease. Wal-Mart warned last month it expected same-store sales in April to be anywhere from unchanged to down 2 percent, but business was much weaker because of disappointing apparel and home goods sales at its Wal-Mart discount chain. Same-store sales at the discount stores were down 4.6 percent, while at the Sam's Club warehouse club division, same-store sales rose 2.5 percent. The last time Wal-Mart reported a drop in same-store sales was last November,when the retailer posted a 0.1 percent decrease. Wal-Mart said the slowing economy was a big factor in its sluggish performance. It noted that recent surveys of discount store shoppers show that consumers are increasingly concerned about rising gas prices, which are now averaging over $3 a gallon nationwide. Wal-Mart also blamed its performance on cold weather and the earlier Easter. It also said product recalls by dog and cat food manufacturers contributed to a slowdown in pet supply sales during April. The world's largest retailer said it expects May same-store sales to rise 1 percent to 2 percent. Federated, which operates Macy's and Bloomingdale's, posted a 2.2 percent decline in same-store sales, while analysts forecast a 1.7 percent gain. Penney said its same-store sales fell 2.7 percent, more than the 0.8 percent analysts expected. Costco Wholesale Corp. had a 7 percent same-store sales gain, better than the 6.3 percent estimate. Apparel retailer Bebe Stores Inc. had a 9 percent drop, worse than the 6.6 percent analysts forecast. Wet Seal had a 9.6 percent decline, more than the 8.3 percent estimate. Gadget retailer Sharper Image Inc., which has been languishing for months, suffered an 11 percent drop in same-store sales. Still, the results were better than the 25 percent decrease analysts expected. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Passenger killed on Interstate 5 by loose truck wheels Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/business	KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Business Consumer confidence stuck in rut amid worries about gas prices Consumer confidence was essentially stuck in a rut as worries about whether gasoline prices will move higher made people feel anxious about the economy's prospects and their own financial positions. Guilty pleas entered in giant Wall Street insider-trading ring A married couple, both lawyers, pleaded guilty to conspiracy and securities fraud Thursday in what was described as one of the biggest insider-trading operations since the 1980s, a $15 million scam that reached into some of the nation's top financial firms. Alabama chosen by ThyssenKrupp for $4.2 billion steel plant Steelmaker ThyssenKrupp AG said Friday it will build a new $4.19 billion steel plant in Alabama, which has attracted other German companies including DaimlerChrysler AG in recent years. Hershey cuts 2007 earnings estimate Little-known company purchases remaining Yukos assets Rates on 30-year mortgages edge lower for third time in last 4 weeks Northwest cherry growers expect another large harvest EADS swings to 1st-quarter loss, dragged down by Airbus Retailers post weak April sales JetBlue names COO Barger to replace founder Neeleman as CEO Viacom's first-quarter earnings down 36 percent Clearwire loss widens in first quarter since IPO Senate committee approves fuel economy increase to 35 mpg Microsoft signs Web video deals with Volvo, Chivas Brothers Cisco shares fall despite big third-quarter profit Grapeseed oil company uses recycled product as biofuel for its car Grasso wins round in NYSE pay fight Amazon settles patent suits with IBM 'Cocaine' drink is pulled from shelves Committee approves fuel economy increase Warner Music posts wider 2nd quarter loss CVS 1st quarter profits rise 24 percent Gas prices surge to record U.S. average of $3.07 per gallon Russian court convicts principal of using pirated Microsoft software Alcoa offers to buy Canada's Alcan for cash and stock worth $27 billion Buffett provides some details about his succession plan Ford to close 1 Ohio plant, shut down another for a year Survey: Gas prices reach record average Qantas Airways says takeover is finished Stocks rise for fourth straight session Analysts cynical of Microsoft-Yahoo deal Starbucks earnings increase 18 percent Weyerhaeuser swings to a first-quarter profit on Domtar transaction Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Passenger killed on Interstate 5 by loose truck wheels Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/business/7462082.html	Guilty pleas entered in giant Wall Street insider-trading ring | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Business Guilty pleas entered in giant Wall Street insider-trading ring Randi Collotta, right, is escorted by her attorney Michael Cornacchia as she leaves federal court in New York, Thursday May 10, 2007. Story Published: May 11, 2007 at 9:01 AM PDT Story Updated: May 11, 2007 at 9:01 AM PDT NEW YORK (AP) - A married couple, both lawyers, pleaded guilty to conspiracy and securities fraud Thursday in what was described as one of the biggest insider-trading operations since the 1980s, a $15 million scam that reached into some of the nation's top financial firms. Randi Collotta, 30, a former employee of Morgan Stanley and Co. in Manhattan, and her husband, Christopher Collotta, 34, who worked in private practice, were among 13 people who were criminally charged in the case. The couple received $9,000 in kickbacks for inside tips that generated more than $600,000 in illegal profits, Assistant U.S. Attorney Andrew Fish said. In a plea deal with the government, Randi Collotta agreed not to appeal any sentence as long it's between one and 1½ years in prison. Christopher Collotta vowed not appeal any sentence from 10 months to a year and four months in prison. U.S. District Judge Victor Marrero set sentencing for Sept. 7. They remain free on $250,000 bail each. Randi Collotta, sobbing through much of the proceeding, said she agreed in September 2004 with her husband to provide inside information she obtained in her job at Morgan Stanley to a broker, Marc Jurman of Palm Beach Garden, Fla. Jurman pleaded guilty in March to conspiracy and securities fraud. He was also named in a Securities and Exchange Commission complaint earlier this year. She said she told her husband about pending mergers and acquisitions between September 2004 and July 2005. "I knew my husband would share the information with Marc Jurman," she said. She added: "I understood my actions were wrong and I accept responsibility for what I did." Fish said Jurman shared that inside information with others, resulting in several hundred thousand dollars in illegal profits beyond $38,500 Jurman pocketed after trading securities based on what the Collotas had told him. After the plea, Randi Collotta declined to comment. Her lawyer, Kenneth Breen, said, "Randi Collotta accepted responsibility for what she did and today took a significant step in putting this behind her." Christopher Collotta, like his wife, said in court that he knew he acted illegally and accepted responsibility. He declined to comment outside court as well. His lawyer, Brian Rafferty, issued a statement outside court saying his client "deeply regrets his actions in participating in these offenses, and realizes that he will have to live with the consequences of his actions for the rest of his life." The government said the trading ring relied on insiders at Morgan Stanley and UBS Securities LLC to steal valuable secrets from the companies. It also alleged a Banc of America Securities LLC broker accepted kickbacks and that two former representatives of Bear Stearns & Co. obtained proprietary UBS information. The SEC has described the case as one of the most pervasive Wall Street insider trading rings since Ivan Boesky and Dennis Levine engaged in notorious insider-trading schemes during the 1980s. According to prosecutors, Randi Collotta was an associate in Morgan Stanley's global compliance division during the conspiracy. When they announced the case in March, prosecutors and SEC officials said the defendants included registered representatives, compliance personnel and hedge fund portfolio managers who traded hundreds of tips over five years. U.S. Attorney Michael Garcia said Wall Street professionals repeatedly traded on secrets revealed to them by insiders at UBS and Morgan Stanley. Stock upgrades and downgrades by UBS and impending corporate acquisitions involving Morgan Stanley clients were relayed before the news hit the market, authorities said. The SEC said ringleaders working the UBS side of the scheme went to great lengths to hide their actions through clandestine meetings, disposable cell phones and secret codes. At least three people have already pleaded guilty to charges in the case and await sentencing. Meanwhile, Jennifer Wang, who also worked at Morgan Stanley, and her husband, Ruben Chen, of Englishtown, N.J., were charged Thursday in an unrelated insider-trading case with conspiracy and securities fraud. Prosecutors said Wang made $600,000 on secrets she stole from Morgan Stanley while she was a vice president. She and Chen, a vice president at ING Investment Management Americas, resigned after investigations began. After a brief court appearance late Thursday, Wang and Chen were each released on $2 million bail. Chen is required to submit to electronic monitoring. A defense lawyer did not immediately return a telephone call for comment. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Passenger killed on Interstate 5 by loose truck wheels Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/business/7461897.html	Little-known company purchases remaining Yukos assets | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Business Little-known company purchases remaining Yukos assets Headquarters of Russian oil gaint Yukos seen in Moscow, Thursday, May 10, 2007. Story Published: May 11, 2007 at 8:54 AM PDT Story Updated: May 11, 2007 at 8:54 AM PDT MOSCOW (AP) - A little-known Russian company, OOO Prana, on Friday bought the last remaining assets of the bankrupt Yukos oil company, including its headquarters building, for 100.092 billion rubles ($3.87 billion), beating out Russian state oil company Rosneft. Once Russia's largest oil producer and regarded as one of the country's best-run and most transparent enterprises, Yukos was dismantled in a series of legal actions that some observers saw as political revenge by the Kremlin. Prana outbid state-controlled oil company OAO Rosneft in an auction that exceeded the opening price by more than fourfold. The starting price was 22 billion rubles ($852 million), which had been seen as a reasonable price for the bundle of assets that included the 22-story headquarters building in downtown Moscow and an array of subsidiary operations. Yukos was driven into bankruptcy by back tax bills of more than $30 billion, imposed in legal actions that came as former owner Mikhail Khodorkovsky was arrested, convicted of fraud and tax evasion and sentenced to eight years in prison. Before his arrest, Khodorkovsky was estimated by Forbes magazine to be the richest man in Russia with a fortune worth $15 billion. Khodorkovsky had funded opposition political parties and had political ambitions. As little as three years ago, Rosneft was something of an underachiever among Russia's oil companies - little more than a loose bundle of assets that hadn't been privatized in the post-Soviet economic restructuring. But with its purchase of Yukos production units, it is now Russia's largest oil producer, with a capacity equivalent to that of Nigeria. Rosneft obtained its first Yukos unit in 2004, from an apparent shell company that had bought it at auction. Friday's auction led to speculation over whether some analogous deal may be in the works, given the obscurity of Prana. Bankruptcy organizers said they had no information on the company's affiliations. "Few could have expected the price to rise so high. We hope that all obligations taken on by the winner will be met," said Nikolai Lashkevich, a spokesman for the Yukos bankruptcy supervisor. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Passenger killed on Interstate 5 by loose truck wheels Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/business/7441121.html	Northwest cherry growers expect another large harvest | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Business Northwest cherry growers expect another large harvest Leonel Castillo dumps a bucket of Lambert cherries into a box at the Pinedale Ranch south of Wenatchee, Wash. in this file photo from Aug. 1, 2002. Story Published: May 10, 2007 at 8:45 AM PDT Story Updated: May 10, 2007 at 8:45 AM PDT YAKIMA, Wash. (AP) - Five straight years of record crops aren't dimming Northwest cherry growers' predictions for 2007, as more acreage comes into production and volume continues to climb. Growers are estimating the 2007 crop at between 140,000 and 150,000 tons for the five-state region that includes Washington, Oregon, Idaho, Utah and Montana. Most of that is grown in Washington, where this year's crop should be about 120,000 tons, said B.J. Thurlby, president of Northwest Cherry Growers, a promotional group for growers and shippers. In 2006, Washington state cherry growers harvested an all-time high of 117,000 tons. "Our crop last year grew 20 percent over the previous record crop in 2005. We don't think we're going to grow that much this season, but we do think we'll top that again," Thurlby said. If the weather stays warm, with no extended heavy rain, growers see potential for the harvest to come in at the higher end of the range predicted for the entire region, Thurlby said. Northwest growers could face increasing competition from California, where growers are predicting a normal-size crop for the first time in years. California and the Northwest produce the bulk of the nation's sweet cherries. California growers are estimating their 2007 crop at about 60,000 tons following several down years. The past two years, the harvest was reduced by half, to about 30,000 tons, due to poor weather. California growers begin their harvest several weeks ahead of the Northwest, but the tail end of their season usually overlaps with the Northwest. "We've had some acreage increases, so we probably have a higher potential. It just remains to be seen whether that comes true," said Jim Culbertson, manager of the California Cherry Advisory Board. California growers have planted more varieties that ripen earlier in the season to avoid that competition, Culbertson said. At the same time, Northwest growers continue to plant varieties that ripen later to keep cherries on retail shelves well into August. "All of that planting, or I'd say 90 percent of it, is post-Fourth of July cherries, late-season cherries," Thurlby said. "The great message to consumers is that cherries are now available until the middle of August, where just two or three years ago, they would be done by the third week of July." Ron Walter, who grows cherries on 10 acres in north-central Washington's Squilchuck Valley, isn't worried about the effects of a strong California crop - it might just whet consumers' appetites for sweet cherries. "They'll probably overlap the start of the Washington crop a few days to a week," Walter said. "But if they put good quality fruit on the market, then the retailers and the consumers are usually there for Washington cherries, too." Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Passenger killed on Interstate 5 by loose truck wheels Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/business/7448801.html	Rates on 30-year mortgages edge lower for third time in last 4 weeks | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Business Rates on 30-year mortgages edge lower for third time in last 4 weeks Story Published: May 10, 2007 at 3:14 PM PDT Story Updated: May 10, 2007 at 3:14 PM PDT WASHINGTON (AP) - Rates on 30-year mortgages edged lower for the third week out of the past four, reflecting further evidence that slower economic growth will help keep inflation in check. Mortgage giant Freddie Mac reported Thursday that 30-year, fixed-rate mortgages averaged 6.15 percent nationwide this week, down slightly from 6.16 percent last week. The low for the year was 6.14 percent in early March. Rates have fallen in three of the past four weeks with the latest decline attributed to a weaker-than-expected jobs report which showed just 88,000 jobs were created in April. "Low employment growth in April - the slowest pace since November 2004 - and downward revisions to both February and March job growth tempered market concerns of future increases in the rate of inflation," said Frank Nothaft, chief economist at Freddie Mac. The Federal Reserve on Wednesday decided to keep a key interest rate unchanged as Fed officials continued to watch to make sure that the economic slowdown that is occurring will be enough to lower inflation pressures. Mortgage rates have been relatively stable over the past four months with the 30-year fluctuating in a narrow range that saw it go as high as 6.34 percent in early February and as low as 6.14 percent for the first two weeks in March. Rates on 15-year, fixed-rate mortgages, a popular choice for refinancing, were unchanged at 5.87 percent this week, the same as last week. Five-year adjustable-rate mortgages averaged 5.89 percent this week, up slightly from 5.87 percent last week. One-year adjustable rate mortgages showed the biggest movement, rising to 5.48 percent, compared to 5.42 percent last week. The mortgage rates do not include add-on fees known as points. Thirty-year and 15-year mortgages both carried a nationwide average fee of 0.5 point. Five-year adjustable-rate mortgages carried a 0.6 point and one-year ARMs carried an average fee of 0.7 point. A year ago, rates on 30-year mortgages stood at 6.58 percent while 15-year mortgages were at 6.17 percent. Five-year adjustable-rate mortgages averaged 6.22 percent and one-year adjustable-rate mortgages were at 5.62 percent. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Passenger killed on Interstate 5 by loose truck wheels Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/business/7461947.html	Hershey cuts 2007 earnings estimate | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Business Hershey cuts 2007 earnings estimate Story Published: May 11, 2007 at 8:56 AM PDT Story Updated: May 11, 2007 at 8:56 AM PDT HARRISBURG, Pa. (AP) - Hershey, the nation's largest candymaker, said Thursday it will earn less in 2007 than it had originally forecast, a day after disclosing plans to close its last two plants in Canada and cut jobs from another plant in Pennsylvania. Its shares dropped more than 3 percent in morning trading. The Hershey Co. blamed a sluggish domestic business and higher dairy costs for lowering its earnings growth estimate for this year to 4 percent to 6 percent, down from the 7 percent to 9 percent range it forecast last month. It maintained its forecast of sales growth in the 3 percent to 4 percent range. The maker of Reese's, Hershey's Kisses and Ice Breakers gum has pledged to put more muscle into advertising and marketing to invigorate sales after it stumbled in late 2006. On Wednesday, the company continued to reveal more about a three-month-old restructuring plan, saying it will close plants in Dartmouth, Nova Scotia, and Montreal by the end of the year, laying off 730 workers. Another 80 to 100 workers will be laid off from a plant in Lancaster, not far from its headquarters in Hershey, the company said. The planned closure of the Canadian plants brings to six the number of plants Hershey has said it plans to shut down in the next two years as part of a broader restructuring to cut costs and improve efficiency. Hershey has already announced that it will close plants in Oakdale, Calif., Reading, Pa., Naugatuck, Conn., and Smiths Falls, Ontario, while cutting as many as 900 of the 3,000 workers at its three hometown plants in Hershey. All told, the cuts will affect nearly 3,300 workers. Hershey has said it will shift work to other domestic plants and contractors and to a new plant it is building in Monterrey, Mexico, while adding 150 jobs to a plant in Stuarts Draft, Va. When the changes are complete in 2010, one-third of Hershey's existing production lines will be eliminated, while the proportion of its manufacturing in the United States and Canada will shrink to 80 percent from 94 percent now, the company has said. Hershey shares fell $2.06, or 3.75 percent, to $52.93 Thursday. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Passenger killed on Interstate 5 by loose truck wheels Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/business/7441041.html	EADS swings to 1st-quarter loss, dragged down by Airbus | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Business EADS swings to 1st-quarter loss, dragged down by Airbus Story Published: May 10, 2007 at 8:41 AM PDT Story Updated: May 10, 2007 at 8:41 AM PDT PARIS (AP) - European Aeronautic Defence & Space Co. NV said Thursday it swung to a loss in the first quarter, dragged down by its commercial aircraft division Airbus, which has been plagued by a weak dollar and industrial problems. The company reported a first-quarter net loss of 10 million euros ($13.54 million), after a net profit of 522 million euros a year earlier. EADS said it had been affected by the weak dollar, charges related to a new restructuring plan for Airbus and exceptional costs related to the A380 superjumbo program, all of which eroded profit margins. The loss was smaller than the average estimate of 273 million euros ($369.51 million) of eight analysts polled by Dow Jones Newswires. Earnings before interest, tax and other expenses plunged to 89 million euros ($120 million) from 791 million euros in the first three months of 2006. Revenue for the first quarter was roughly stable at 9 billion euros ($12.18 billion), from 9.1 billion euros a year before. EADS Chief Financial Officer Hans Peter Ring told shareholders last week that the Airbus unit is expected to post another hefty loss this year but could return to profitability in 2008. In its statement, EADS reaffirmed its full-year earnings guidance that group earnings before interest and taxes, or EBIT, will remain stable while revenue should decrease less than 10 percent, assuming a 1.30 euro-dollar exchange rate. The company had sales in 2006 of 39.43 billion euros ($53.37 billion). To improve its profitability and increase its performance against Boeing Co., Airbus has launched a cost-cutting program known as Power8 that would slash 10,000 jobs over four years and includes the possible sale or closure of some plants. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Passenger killed on Interstate 5 by loose truck wheels Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/business/7440931.html	JetBlue names COO Barger to replace founder Neeleman as CEO | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Business JetBlue names COO Barger to replace founder Neeleman as CEO Story Published: May 10, 2007 at 8:38 AM PDT Story Updated: May 10, 2007 at 8:38 AM PDT NEW YORK (AP) - JetBlue Airways Corp. replaced founder David Neeleman as CEO less than three months after operating snafus essentially shut down the carrier for days and frayed relations with customers. The low-fare airline on Thursday appointed Chief Operating Officer Dave Barger as its new chief executive, effective immediately. Neeleman had been chief executive since 1998 and will retain his role as chairman. The move comes after storms on Valentine's Day and St. Patrick's Day essentially shut JetBlue down, forcing the cancellation of nearly 1,700 flights and stranding thousands of travelers throughout the Northeast. To prevent a recurrence, JetBlue drafted a "customer bill of rights," the gist of which is that the company now issues vouchers to some customers who experience delays. The canceled flights and vouchers cost JetBlue $41 million, contributing to the company's first quarter loss of $22 million, or 12 cents a share. That was an improvement over the year-ago quarter, but was less than analysts had originally expected. Last month, JetBlue lowered expectations for the rest of the year. In a statement, Neeleman characterized the change as "a natural evolution" of JetBlue's leadership structure. Barger, 49, will retain his role as president. He joined JetBlue as president and chief operating officer shortly after Neeleman founded the airline in 1998. Shares of the airline, which operates more than 575 flights daily to 52 destinations, jumped 54 cents, or 5.1 percent, to $10.94 in morning trading. The stock is off 35 percent since mid-January, when it hit an intraday high of $17.02. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Passenger killed on Interstate 5 by loose truck wheels Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/business/7461997.html	Alabama chosen by ThyssenKrupp for $4.2 billion steel plant | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Business Alabama chosen by ThyssenKrupp for $4.2 billion steel plant A steel worker takes a sample at the blast furnace of ThyssenKrupp steel company in Duisburg, western Germany, in this Sept. 22, 2005 file photo. Story Published: May 11, 2007 at 8:58 AM PDT Story Updated: May 11, 2007 at 8:58 AM PDT FRANKFURT, Germany (AP) - Steelmaker ThyssenKrupp AG said Friday it will build a new $4.19 billion steel plant in Alabama, which has attracted other German companies including DaimlerChrysler AG in recent years. The plant - scheduled to open in 2010 and employ as many as 2,700 workers when fully operational - will be near Mobile. The company was lured by several tax breaks and a $400 million incentives package. The Duesseldorf-based company chose Alabama over Louisiana, which also had offered tax breaks. It would be the company's first steelmaking operation in the United States, processing carbon steel and stainless steel for automakers, electrical companies, appliance manufacturers and more. The new plant would be "an integral part of the company's plan to increase growth in the steel and stainless steel division in North America and Europe," supervisory board chairman Ekkehard Schulz said in a statement. Initially, the company had said the project would run some $2.9 billion, but raised the amount to nearly $4.2 billion because "higher capacities and extended plant configurations were shown to be feasible and economic." The company said that once the plant is up and running, it could create as many as 38,000 new jobs related to the mill, from suppliers to transportation to dining and entertainment. In a statement Friday morning, Gov. Bob Riley said a "project this size, with this amount of economic impact, comes along perhaps once in a generation." Louisiana Gov. Kathleen Blanco said it was a "tremendous honor" to be one of two finalists among 20 states that had bid for the project. "Our success with this project demonstrates Louisiana has established a stronghold in the global economy and can successfully compete for world-class projects," she said in a statement. Low-cost slabs will be supplied from a new steel mill in near Rio de Janeiro that is scheduled to start production in 2009 with a capacity of 5 million tons of slabs per year. The new North American plant will process the slabs. "This combination of cost and quality leadership can only be achieved with the new steel mill. At the same time, ThyssenKrupp is investing over 700 million euros ($946.89 million) to strengthen its German facilities and its market position in Europe," he said, adding that the special feature of the steel mill is that it will be a combined plant for flat carbon steel and stainless steel. Shares of ThyssenKrupp were down 2.3 percent in midday trading. The announcement after the company, one of the world's biggest steelmakers, said Friday that its second-quarter net profit fell 44 percent because of a multimillion-dollar fine levied by the European Union. The company, whose products range from automotive parts and elevators to slabs of steel, earned 244 million euros ($330 million) in the January-March period, compared with 441 million euros a year earlier. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Passenger killed on Interstate 5 by loose truck wheels Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/business/7464677.html	Consumer confidence stuck in rut amid worries about gas prices | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Business Consumer confidence stuck in rut amid worries about gas prices Story Published: May 11, 2007 at 12:00 PM PDT Story Updated: May 11, 2007 at 12:00 PM PDT WASHINGTON (AP) - Consumer confidence was essentially stuck in a rut as worries about whether gasoline prices will move higher made people feel anxious about the economy's prospects and their own financial positions. The RBC Cash Index found that confidence clocked in at 87.1 in May. The new figure hovered near April's reading of 85.4, a six-month low. The index is based on the results from the international polling firm Ipsos. "Consumer confidence appears to be spinning its wheels," observed Richard Yamarone, economist at Argus Research. "Although employment is mostly stable, there are many uncertainties on the horizon," Yamarone said. "Will energy prices go even higher? How is the housing slump going to play out? It is the fear of the unknowns that is coloring peoples' feelings." Those fears were a factor in the big drop in peoples' feelings about how the economy and their own finances will fare over the next six months. This expectations measure fell to 24.3, a nine-month low. In April, this gauge stood at 41.7. The report suggested that consumers had a bit of a split personality when it came to their feelings about the economy. On the one hand, consumers expressed angst about the future. On the other, they felt better about the current economic situation. A measure tracking consumers' sentiments on current conditions rose to 113.2 in May, up from 99 in April. Economists attributed this pickup to a mostly healthy - albeit slowing - jobs market and the recent string of record-high closings logged on Wall Street. "People are hanging in there. There's a sense like things are OK for now but there seems to be a gnawing feeling - can it last?" said Stuart Hoffman, chief economist at PNC Financial Services Group. "People are a bit wary of how long either the economy or their own personal finances can hold up in the face of higher gasoline prices and a weaker housing market. But so far, it is more of a fear factor than a reality show," Hoffman added. The fresh reading on consumer confidence came as President Bush continues to shoulder a low job-approval rating of 35 percent from the American public, according to a separate AP-Ipsos poll. On the economy, 41 percent approve of the president's economic stewardship, while 56 percent disapprove, the poll shows. Consumers are a major force shaping overall economic activity. Economists keep close tabs on confidence barometers for clues about peoples' willingness to spend. Economic growth slowed to a near crawl of a 1.3 percent pace in the January-to-March quarter, the weakest showing in four years. The main culprit: the housing slump, which caused some businesses to cut back on their spending. Consumers, however, showed resilience and managed to keep on spending, preventing the economy from losing even more speed. Analysts wonder how much of an appetite consumers will have in the face of surging gasoline prices. A fresh answer came Friday when the government reported that retail sales dropped 0.2 percent in April, a much weaker showing than economists were forecasting. One day earlier, big retailers also reported disappointing sales for April. The reports cast a dimmer light on the outlook for consumer spending in the months ahead. The weaker sales were blamed on shoppers having to shell out more to fill up their gas tanks, leaving them less to spend on other things. Gasoline prices climbed to $3.05 a gallon nationwide in early May, from $2.97 in late April, the Energy Department says. The reason why consumers have been holding up to the painful housing slump and gyrating energy prices has been because the job market has been strong. There have been recent signs, though, that it is weakening a bit. The government reported last week that the unemployment rate edged up to 4.5 percent as employers added just 88,000 new jobs during the month, the fewest in two and a half years. Growth in workers' paychecks also slowed. Consumers' feelings about the job market clocked dipped a bit in May to 123.8 in May, which still was a strong showing. In April, the index stood at 126.4. An index tracking people's attitudes about investing rose to 107.5 in May, from 92.3 in April. Analysts attributed the improvement to the recent string of record-high closings on Wall Street. The overall confidence index is benchmarked to a reading of 100 on January 2002, when Ipsos started the survey. The RBC consumer confidence index was based on responses from 1,000 adults surveyed Monday through Wednesday about their attitudes on personal finance and the economy. Results of the survey had a margin of sampling error of plus or minus 3 percentage points. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Passenger killed on Interstate 5 by loose truck wheels Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/business/7440971.html	Retailers post weak April sales | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Business Retailers post weak April sales Story Published: May 10, 2007 at 8:39 AM PDT Story Updated: May 10, 2007 at 8:39 AM PDT NEW YORK (AP) - Rising gasoline prices and the slumping housing market kept consumers out of stores last month, leaving many of the nation's merchants with disappointing sales results. As retailers released their April sales figures Thursday, weak performers included Wal-Mart Stores Inc., which recorded a rare drop in business, as well as J.C. Penney Co. and Federated Department Stores Inc. "Consumers are feeling pressured by higher gasoline prices and a sluggish housing market, particularly low and middle income consumers," said Ken Perkins, president of RetailMetrics LLC, a research company in Swampscott, Mass. Analysts had already expected last month to be weak after an early Easter motivated many consumers to do their holiday shopping in March, siphoning away part of April's business. But sales were much softer than expected, raising concerns that retailers will also see disappointing results in the months ahead. Perkins and other analysts say they will be closely watching how May fares since the month will provide a better indication of the health of the consumer. Wal-Mart reported a 3.5 percent decline in same-store sales, or sales at stores open at least a year. Same-store sales are considered the best indicator of a retailer's performance. Analysts surveyed by Thomson Financial had expected a 1.1 percent decrease. Wal-Mart warned last month it expected same-store sales in April to be anywhere from unchanged to down 2 percent, but business was much weaker because of disappointing apparel and home goods sales at its Wal-Mart discount chain. Same-store sales at the discount stores were down 4.6 percent, while at the Sam's Club warehouse club division, same-store sales rose 2.5 percent. The last time Wal-Mart reported a drop in same-store sales was last November,when the retailer posted a 0.1 percent decrease. Wal-Mart said the slowing economy was a big factor in its sluggish performance. It noted that recent surveys of discount store shoppers show that consumers are increasingly concerned about rising gas prices, which are now averaging over $3 a gallon nationwide. Wal-Mart also blamed its performance on cold weather and the earlier Easter. It also said product recalls by dog and cat food manufacturers contributed to a slowdown in pet supply sales during April. The world's largest retailer said it expects May same-store sales to rise 1 percent to 2 percent. Federated, which operates Macy's and Bloomingdale's, posted a 2.2 percent decline in same-store sales, while analysts forecast a 1.7 percent gain. Penney said its same-store sales fell 2.7 percent, more than the 0.8 percent analysts expected. Costco Wholesale Corp. had a 7 percent same-store sales gain, better than the 6.3 percent estimate. Apparel retailer Bebe Stores Inc. had a 9 percent drop, worse than the 6.6 percent analysts forecast. Wet Seal had a 9.6 percent decline, more than the 8.3 percent estimate. Gadget retailer Sharper Image Inc., which has been languishing for months, suffered an 11 percent drop in same-store sales. Still, the results were better than the 25 percent decrease analysts expected. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Passenger killed on Interstate 5 by loose truck wheels Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/business	KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Business Consumer confidence stuck in rut amid worries about gas prices Consumer confidence was essentially stuck in a rut as worries about whether gasoline prices will move higher made people feel anxious about the economy's prospects and their own financial positions. Guilty pleas entered in giant Wall Street insider-trading ring A married couple, both lawyers, pleaded guilty to conspiracy and securities fraud Thursday in what was described as one of the biggest insider-trading operations since the 1980s, a $15 million scam that reached into some of the nation's top financial firms. Alabama chosen by ThyssenKrupp for $4.2 billion steel plant Steelmaker ThyssenKrupp AG said Friday it will build a new $4.19 billion steel plant in Alabama, which has attracted other German companies including DaimlerChrysler AG in recent years. Hershey cuts 2007 earnings estimate Little-known company purchases remaining Yukos assets Rates on 30-year mortgages edge lower for third time in last 4 weeks Northwest cherry growers expect another large harvest EADS swings to 1st-quarter loss, dragged down by Airbus Retailers post weak April sales JetBlue names COO Barger to replace founder Neeleman as CEO Viacom's first-quarter earnings down 36 percent Clearwire loss widens in first quarter since IPO Senate committee approves fuel economy increase to 35 mpg Microsoft signs Web video deals with Volvo, Chivas Brothers Cisco shares fall despite big third-quarter profit Grapeseed oil company uses recycled product as biofuel for its car Grasso wins round in NYSE pay fight Amazon settles patent suits with IBM 'Cocaine' drink is pulled from shelves Committee approves fuel economy increase Warner Music posts wider 2nd quarter loss CVS 1st quarter profits rise 24 percent Gas prices surge to record U.S. average of $3.07 per gallon Russian court convicts principal of using pirated Microsoft software Alcoa offers to buy Canada's Alcan for cash and stock worth $27 billion Buffett provides some details about his succession plan Ford to close 1 Ohio plant, shut down another for a year Survey: Gas prices reach record average Qantas Airways says takeover is finished Stocks rise for fourth straight session Analysts cynical of Microsoft-Yahoo deal Starbucks earnings increase 18 percent Weyerhaeuser swings to a first-quarter profit on Domtar transaction Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Passenger killed on Interstate 5 by loose truck wheels Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/business/7462082.html	Guilty pleas entered in giant Wall Street insider-trading ring | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Business Guilty pleas entered in giant Wall Street insider-trading ring Randi Collotta, right, is escorted by her attorney Michael Cornacchia as she leaves federal court in New York, Thursday May 10, 2007. Story Published: May 11, 2007 at 9:01 AM PDT Story Updated: May 11, 2007 at 9:01 AM PDT NEW YORK (AP) - A married couple, both lawyers, pleaded guilty to conspiracy and securities fraud Thursday in what was described as one of the biggest insider-trading operations since the 1980s, a $15 million scam that reached into some of the nation's top financial firms. Randi Collotta, 30, a former employee of Morgan Stanley and Co. in Manhattan, and her husband, Christopher Collotta, 34, who worked in private practice, were among 13 people who were criminally charged in the case. The couple received $9,000 in kickbacks for inside tips that generated more than $600,000 in illegal profits, Assistant U.S. Attorney Andrew Fish said. In a plea deal with the government, Randi Collotta agreed not to appeal any sentence as long it's between one and 1½ years in prison. Christopher Collotta vowed not appeal any sentence from 10 months to a year and four months in prison. U.S. District Judge Victor Marrero set sentencing for Sept. 7. They remain free on $250,000 bail each. Randi Collotta, sobbing through much of the proceeding, said she agreed in September 2004 with her husband to provide inside information she obtained in her job at Morgan Stanley to a broker, Marc Jurman of Palm Beach Garden, Fla. Jurman pleaded guilty in March to conspiracy and securities fraud. He was also named in a Securities and Exchange Commission complaint earlier this year. She said she told her husband about pending mergers and acquisitions between September 2004 and July 2005. "I knew my husband would share the information with Marc Jurman," she said. She added: "I understood my actions were wrong and I accept responsibility for what I did." Fish said Jurman shared that inside information with others, resulting in several hundred thousand dollars in illegal profits beyond $38,500 Jurman pocketed after trading securities based on what the Collotas had told him. After the plea, Randi Collotta declined to comment. Her lawyer, Kenneth Breen, said, "Randi Collotta accepted responsibility for what she did and today took a significant step in putting this behind her." Christopher Collotta, like his wife, said in court that he knew he acted illegally and accepted responsibility. He declined to comment outside court as well. His lawyer, Brian Rafferty, issued a statement outside court saying his client "deeply regrets his actions in participating in these offenses, and realizes that he will have to live with the consequences of his actions for the rest of his life." The government said the trading ring relied on insiders at Morgan Stanley and UBS Securities LLC to steal valuable secrets from the companies. It also alleged a Banc of America Securities LLC broker accepted kickbacks and that two former representatives of Bear Stearns & Co. obtained proprietary UBS information. The SEC has described the case as one of the most pervasive Wall Street insider trading rings since Ivan Boesky and Dennis Levine engaged in notorious insider-trading schemes during the 1980s. According to prosecutors, Randi Collotta was an associate in Morgan Stanley's global compliance division during the conspiracy. When they announced the case in March, prosecutors and SEC officials said the defendants included registered representatives, compliance personnel and hedge fund portfolio managers who traded hundreds of tips over five years. U.S. Attorney Michael Garcia said Wall Street professionals repeatedly traded on secrets revealed to them by insiders at UBS and Morgan Stanley. Stock upgrades and downgrades by UBS and impending corporate acquisitions involving Morgan Stanley clients were relayed before the news hit the market, authorities said. The SEC said ringleaders working the UBS side of the scheme went to great lengths to hide their actions through clandestine meetings, disposable cell phones and secret codes. At least three people have already pleaded guilty to charges in the case and await sentencing. Meanwhile, Jennifer Wang, who also worked at Morgan Stanley, and her husband, Ruben Chen, of Englishtown, N.J., were charged Thursday in an unrelated insider-trading case with conspiracy and securities fraud. Prosecutors said Wang made $600,000 on secrets she stole from Morgan Stanley while she was a vice president. She and Chen, a vice president at ING Investment Management Americas, resigned after investigations began. After a brief court appearance late Thursday, Wang and Chen were each released on $2 million bail. Chen is required to submit to electronic monitoring. A defense lawyer did not immediately return a telephone call for comment. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Passenger killed on Interstate 5 by loose truck wheels Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/business/7461897.html	Little-known company purchases remaining Yukos assets | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Business Little-known company purchases remaining Yukos assets Headquarters of Russian oil gaint Yukos seen in Moscow, Thursday, May 10, 2007. Story Published: May 11, 2007 at 8:54 AM PDT Story Updated: May 11, 2007 at 8:54 AM PDT MOSCOW (AP) - A little-known Russian company, OOO Prana, on Friday bought the last remaining assets of the bankrupt Yukos oil company, including its headquarters building, for 100.092 billion rubles ($3.87 billion), beating out Russian state oil company Rosneft. Once Russia's largest oil producer and regarded as one of the country's best-run and most transparent enterprises, Yukos was dismantled in a series of legal actions that some observers saw as political revenge by the Kremlin. Prana outbid state-controlled oil company OAO Rosneft in an auction that exceeded the opening price by more than fourfold. The starting price was 22 billion rubles ($852 million), which had been seen as a reasonable price for the bundle of assets that included the 22-story headquarters building in downtown Moscow and an array of subsidiary operations. Yukos was driven into bankruptcy by back tax bills of more than $30 billion, imposed in legal actions that came as former owner Mikhail Khodorkovsky was arrested, convicted of fraud and tax evasion and sentenced to eight years in prison. Before his arrest, Khodorkovsky was estimated by Forbes magazine to be the richest man in Russia with a fortune worth $15 billion. Khodorkovsky had funded opposition political parties and had political ambitions. As little as three years ago, Rosneft was something of an underachiever among Russia's oil companies - little more than a loose bundle of assets that hadn't been privatized in the post-Soviet economic restructuring. But with its purchase of Yukos production units, it is now Russia's largest oil producer, with a capacity equivalent to that of Nigeria. Rosneft obtained its first Yukos unit in 2004, from an apparent shell company that had bought it at auction. Friday's auction led to speculation over whether some analogous deal may be in the works, given the obscurity of Prana. Bankruptcy organizers said they had no information on the company's affiliations. "Few could have expected the price to rise so high. We hope that all obligations taken on by the winner will be met," said Nikolai Lashkevich, a spokesman for the Yukos bankruptcy supervisor. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Passenger killed on Interstate 5 by loose truck wheels Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/business/7441121.html	Northwest cherry growers expect another large harvest | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Business Northwest cherry growers expect another large harvest Leonel Castillo dumps a bucket of Lambert cherries into a box at the Pinedale Ranch south of Wenatchee, Wash. in this file photo from Aug. 1, 2002. Story Published: May 10, 2007 at 8:45 AM PDT Story Updated: May 10, 2007 at 8:45 AM PDT YAKIMA, Wash. (AP) - Five straight years of record crops aren't dimming Northwest cherry growers' predictions for 2007, as more acreage comes into production and volume continues to climb. Growers are estimating the 2007 crop at between 140,000 and 150,000 tons for the five-state region that includes Washington, Oregon, Idaho, Utah and Montana. Most of that is grown in Washington, where this year's crop should be about 120,000 tons, said B.J. Thurlby, president of Northwest Cherry Growers, a promotional group for growers and shippers. In 2006, Washington state cherry growers harvested an all-time high of 117,000 tons. "Our crop last year grew 20 percent over the previous record crop in 2005. We don't think we're going to grow that much this season, but we do think we'll top that again," Thurlby said. If the weather stays warm, with no extended heavy rain, growers see potential for the harvest to come in at the higher end of the range predicted for the entire region, Thurlby said. Northwest growers could face increasing competition from California, where growers are predicting a normal-size crop for the first time in years. California and the Northwest produce the bulk of the nation's sweet cherries. California growers are estimating their 2007 crop at about 60,000 tons following several down years. The past two years, the harvest was reduced by half, to about 30,000 tons, due to poor weather. California growers begin their harvest several weeks ahead of the Northwest, but the tail end of their season usually overlaps with the Northwest. "We've had some acreage increases, so we probably have a higher potential. It just remains to be seen whether that comes true," said Jim Culbertson, manager of the California Cherry Advisory Board. California growers have planted more varieties that ripen earlier in the season to avoid that competition, Culbertson said. At the same time, Northwest growers continue to plant varieties that ripen later to keep cherries on retail shelves well into August. "All of that planting, or I'd say 90 percent of it, is post-Fourth of July cherries, late-season cherries," Thurlby said. "The great message to consumers is that cherries are now available until the middle of August, where just two or three years ago, they would be done by the third week of July." Ron Walter, who grows cherries on 10 acres in north-central Washington's Squilchuck Valley, isn't worried about the effects of a strong California crop - it might just whet consumers' appetites for sweet cherries. "They'll probably overlap the start of the Washington crop a few days to a week," Walter said. "But if they put good quality fruit on the market, then the retailers and the consumers are usually there for Washington cherries, too." Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Passenger killed on Interstate 5 by loose truck wheels Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/business/7448801.html	Rates on 30-year mortgages edge lower for third time in last 4 weeks | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Business Rates on 30-year mortgages edge lower for third time in last 4 weeks Story Published: May 10, 2007 at 3:14 PM PDT Story Updated: May 10, 2007 at 3:14 PM PDT WASHINGTON (AP) - Rates on 30-year mortgages edged lower for the third week out of the past four, reflecting further evidence that slower economic growth will help keep inflation in check. Mortgage giant Freddie Mac reported Thursday that 30-year, fixed-rate mortgages averaged 6.15 percent nationwide this week, down slightly from 6.16 percent last week. The low for the year was 6.14 percent in early March. Rates have fallen in three of the past four weeks with the latest decline attributed to a weaker-than-expected jobs report which showed just 88,000 jobs were created in April. "Low employment growth in April - the slowest pace since November 2004 - and downward revisions to both February and March job growth tempered market concerns of future increases in the rate of inflation," said Frank Nothaft, chief economist at Freddie Mac. The Federal Reserve on Wednesday decided to keep a key interest rate unchanged as Fed officials continued to watch to make sure that the economic slowdown that is occurring will be enough to lower inflation pressures. Mortgage rates have been relatively stable over the past four months with the 30-year fluctuating in a narrow range that saw it go as high as 6.34 percent in early February and as low as 6.14 percent for the first two weeks in March. Rates on 15-year, fixed-rate mortgages, a popular choice for refinancing, were unchanged at 5.87 percent this week, the same as last week. Five-year adjustable-rate mortgages averaged 5.89 percent this week, up slightly from 5.87 percent last week. One-year adjustable rate mortgages showed the biggest movement, rising to 5.48 percent, compared to 5.42 percent last week. The mortgage rates do not include add-on fees known as points. Thirty-year and 15-year mortgages both carried a nationwide average fee of 0.5 point. Five-year adjustable-rate mortgages carried a 0.6 point and one-year ARMs carried an average fee of 0.7 point. A year ago, rates on 30-year mortgages stood at 6.58 percent while 15-year mortgages were at 6.17 percent. Five-year adjustable-rate mortgages averaged 6.22 percent and one-year adjustable-rate mortgages were at 5.62 percent. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Passenger killed on Interstate 5 by loose truck wheels Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/business/7461947.html	Hershey cuts 2007 earnings estimate | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Business Hershey cuts 2007 earnings estimate Story Published: May 11, 2007 at 8:56 AM PDT Story Updated: May 11, 2007 at 8:56 AM PDT HARRISBURG, Pa. (AP) - Hershey, the nation's largest candymaker, said Thursday it will earn less in 2007 than it had originally forecast, a day after disclosing plans to close its last two plants in Canada and cut jobs from another plant in Pennsylvania. Its shares dropped more than 3 percent in morning trading. The Hershey Co. blamed a sluggish domestic business and higher dairy costs for lowering its earnings growth estimate for this year to 4 percent to 6 percent, down from the 7 percent to 9 percent range it forecast last month. It maintained its forecast of sales growth in the 3 percent to 4 percent range. The maker of Reese's, Hershey's Kisses and Ice Breakers gum has pledged to put more muscle into advertising and marketing to invigorate sales after it stumbled in late 2006. On Wednesday, the company continued to reveal more about a three-month-old restructuring plan, saying it will close plants in Dartmouth, Nova Scotia, and Montreal by the end of the year, laying off 730 workers. Another 80 to 100 workers will be laid off from a plant in Lancaster, not far from its headquarters in Hershey, the company said. The planned closure of the Canadian plants brings to six the number of plants Hershey has said it plans to shut down in the next two years as part of a broader restructuring to cut costs and improve efficiency. Hershey has already announced that it will close plants in Oakdale, Calif., Reading, Pa., Naugatuck, Conn., and Smiths Falls, Ontario, while cutting as many as 900 of the 3,000 workers at its three hometown plants in Hershey. All told, the cuts will affect nearly 3,300 workers. Hershey has said it will shift work to other domestic plants and contractors and to a new plant it is building in Monterrey, Mexico, while adding 150 jobs to a plant in Stuarts Draft, Va. When the changes are complete in 2010, one-third of Hershey's existing production lines will be eliminated, while the proportion of its manufacturing in the United States and Canada will shrink to 80 percent from 94 percent now, the company has said. Hershey shares fell $2.06, or 3.75 percent, to $52.93 Thursday. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Passenger killed on Interstate 5 by loose truck wheels Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/business/7441041.html	EADS swings to 1st-quarter loss, dragged down by Airbus | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Business EADS swings to 1st-quarter loss, dragged down by Airbus Story Published: May 10, 2007 at 8:41 AM PDT Story Updated: May 10, 2007 at 8:41 AM PDT PARIS (AP) - European Aeronautic Defence & Space Co. NV said Thursday it swung to a loss in the first quarter, dragged down by its commercial aircraft division Airbus, which has been plagued by a weak dollar and industrial problems. The company reported a first-quarter net loss of 10 million euros ($13.54 million), after a net profit of 522 million euros a year earlier. EADS said it had been affected by the weak dollar, charges related to a new restructuring plan for Airbus and exceptional costs related to the A380 superjumbo program, all of which eroded profit margins. The loss was smaller than the average estimate of 273 million euros ($369.51 million) of eight analysts polled by Dow Jones Newswires. Earnings before interest, tax and other expenses plunged to 89 million euros ($120 million) from 791 million euros in the first three months of 2006. Revenue for the first quarter was roughly stable at 9 billion euros ($12.18 billion), from 9.1 billion euros a year before. EADS Chief Financial Officer Hans Peter Ring told shareholders last week that the Airbus unit is expected to post another hefty loss this year but could return to profitability in 2008. In its statement, EADS reaffirmed its full-year earnings guidance that group earnings before interest and taxes, or EBIT, will remain stable while revenue should decrease less than 10 percent, assuming a 1.30 euro-dollar exchange rate. The company had sales in 2006 of 39.43 billion euros ($53.37 billion). To improve its profitability and increase its performance against Boeing Co., Airbus has launched a cost-cutting program known as Power8 that would slash 10,000 jobs over four years and includes the possible sale or closure of some plants. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Man killed by loose truck wheels on Interstate 5 Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Fans turn out to greet local 'Idol' finalist Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/business/7441041.html	EADS swings to 1st-quarter loss, dragged down by Airbus | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Business EADS swings to 1st-quarter loss, dragged down by Airbus Story Published: May 10, 2007 at 8:41 AM PDT Story Updated: May 10, 2007 at 8:41 AM PDT PARIS (AP) - European Aeronautic Defence & Space Co. NV said Thursday it swung to a loss in the first quarter, dragged down by its commercial aircraft division Airbus, which has been plagued by a weak dollar and industrial problems. The company reported a first-quarter net loss of 10 million euros ($13.54 million), after a net profit of 522 million euros a year earlier. EADS said it had been affected by the weak dollar, charges related to a new restructuring plan for Airbus and exceptional costs related to the A380 superjumbo program, all of which eroded profit margins. The loss was smaller than the average estimate of 273 million euros ($369.51 million) of eight analysts polled by Dow Jones Newswires. Earnings before interest, tax and other expenses plunged to 89 million euros ($120 million) from 791 million euros in the first three months of 2006. Revenue for the first quarter was roughly stable at 9 billion euros ($12.18 billion), from 9.1 billion euros a year before. EADS Chief Financial Officer Hans Peter Ring told shareholders last week that the Airbus unit is expected to post another hefty loss this year but could return to profitability in 2008. In its statement, EADS reaffirmed its full-year earnings guidance that group earnings before interest and taxes, or EBIT, will remain stable while revenue should decrease less than 10 percent, assuming a 1.30 euro-dollar exchange rate. The company had sales in 2006 of 39.43 billion euros ($53.37 billion). To improve its profitability and increase its performance against Boeing Co., Airbus has launched a cost-cutting program known as Power8 that would slash 10,000 jobs over four years and includes the possible sale or closure of some plants. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Man killed by loose truck wheels on Interstate 5 Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Fans turn out to greet local 'Idol' finalist Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/business/7440931.html	JetBlue names COO Barger to replace founder Neeleman as CEO | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Business JetBlue names COO Barger to replace founder Neeleman as CEO Story Published: May 10, 2007 at 8:38 AM PDT Story Updated: May 10, 2007 at 8:38 AM PDT NEW YORK (AP) - JetBlue Airways Corp. replaced founder David Neeleman as CEO less than three months after operating snafus essentially shut down the carrier for days and frayed relations with customers. The low-fare airline on Thursday appointed Chief Operating Officer Dave Barger as its new chief executive, effective immediately. Neeleman had been chief executive since 1998 and will retain his role as chairman. The move comes after storms on Valentine's Day and St. Patrick's Day essentially shut JetBlue down, forcing the cancellation of nearly 1,700 flights and stranding thousands of travelers throughout the Northeast. To prevent a recurrence, JetBlue drafted a "customer bill of rights," the gist of which is that the company now issues vouchers to some customers who experience delays. The canceled flights and vouchers cost JetBlue $41 million, contributing to the company's first quarter loss of $22 million, or 12 cents a share. That was an improvement over the year-ago quarter, but was less than analysts had originally expected. Last month, JetBlue lowered expectations for the rest of the year. In a statement, Neeleman characterized the change as "a natural evolution" of JetBlue's leadership structure. Barger, 49, will retain his role as president. He joined JetBlue as president and chief operating officer shortly after Neeleman founded the airline in 1998. Shares of the airline, which operates more than 575 flights daily to 52 destinations, jumped 54 cents, or 5.1 percent, to $10.94 in morning trading. The stock is off 35 percent since mid-January, when it hit an intraday high of $17.02. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Man killed by loose truck wheels on Interstate 5 Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Fans turn out to greet local 'Idol' finalist Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/business/7440931.html	JetBlue names COO Barger to replace founder Neeleman as CEO | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Business JetBlue names COO Barger to replace founder Neeleman as CEO Story Published: May 10, 2007 at 8:38 AM PDT Story Updated: May 10, 2007 at 8:38 AM PDT NEW YORK (AP) - JetBlue Airways Corp. replaced founder David Neeleman as CEO less than three months after operating snafus essentially shut down the carrier for days and frayed relations with customers. The low-fare airline on Thursday appointed Chief Operating Officer Dave Barger as its new chief executive, effective immediately. Neeleman had been chief executive since 1998 and will retain his role as chairman. The move comes after storms on Valentine's Day and St. Patrick's Day essentially shut JetBlue down, forcing the cancellation of nearly 1,700 flights and stranding thousands of travelers throughout the Northeast. To prevent a recurrence, JetBlue drafted a "customer bill of rights," the gist of which is that the company now issues vouchers to some customers who experience delays. The canceled flights and vouchers cost JetBlue $41 million, contributing to the company's first quarter loss of $22 million, or 12 cents a share. That was an improvement over the year-ago quarter, but was less than analysts had originally expected. Last month, JetBlue lowered expectations for the rest of the year. In a statement, Neeleman characterized the change as "a natural evolution" of JetBlue's leadership structure. Barger, 49, will retain his role as president. He joined JetBlue as president and chief operating officer shortly after Neeleman founded the airline in 1998. Shares of the airline, which operates more than 575 flights daily to 52 destinations, jumped 54 cents, or 5.1 percent, to $10.94 in morning trading. The stock is off 35 percent since mid-January, when it hit an intraday high of $17.02. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Man killed by loose truck wheels on Interstate 5 Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Fans turn out to greet local 'Idol' finalist Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/business/7461997.html	Alabama chosen by ThyssenKrupp for $4.2 billion steel plant | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Business Alabama chosen by ThyssenKrupp for $4.2 billion steel plant A steel worker takes a sample at the blast furnace of ThyssenKrupp steel company in Duisburg, western Germany, in this Sept. 22, 2005 file photo. Story Published: May 11, 2007 at 8:58 AM PDT Story Updated: May 11, 2007 at 8:58 AM PDT FRANKFURT, Germany (AP) - Steelmaker ThyssenKrupp AG said Friday it will build a new $4.19 billion steel plant in Alabama, which has attracted other German companies including DaimlerChrysler AG in recent years. The plant - scheduled to open in 2010 and employ as many as 2,700 workers when fully operational - will be near Mobile. The company was lured by several tax breaks and a $400 million incentives package. The Duesseldorf-based company chose Alabama over Louisiana, which also had offered tax breaks. It would be the company's first steelmaking operation in the United States, processing carbon steel and stainless steel for automakers, electrical companies, appliance manufacturers and more. The new plant would be "an integral part of the company's plan to increase growth in the steel and stainless steel division in North America and Europe," supervisory board chairman Ekkehard Schulz said in a statement. Initially, the company had said the project would run some $2.9 billion, but raised the amount to nearly $4.2 billion because "higher capacities and extended plant configurations were shown to be feasible and economic." The company said that once the plant is up and running, it could create as many as 38,000 new jobs related to the mill, from suppliers to transportation to dining and entertainment. In a statement Friday morning, Gov. Bob Riley said a "project this size, with this amount of economic impact, comes along perhaps once in a generation." Louisiana Gov. Kathleen Blanco said it was a "tremendous honor" to be one of two finalists among 20 states that had bid for the project. "Our success with this project demonstrates Louisiana has established a stronghold in the global economy and can successfully compete for world-class projects," she said in a statement. Low-cost slabs will be supplied from a new steel mill in near Rio de Janeiro that is scheduled to start production in 2009 with a capacity of 5 million tons of slabs per year. The new North American plant will process the slabs. "This combination of cost and quality leadership can only be achieved with the new steel mill. At the same time, ThyssenKrupp is investing over 700 million euros ($946.89 million) to strengthen its German facilities and its market position in Europe," he said, adding that the special feature of the steel mill is that it will be a combined plant for flat carbon steel and stainless steel. Shares of ThyssenKrupp were down 2.3 percent in midday trading. The announcement after the company, one of the world's biggest steelmakers, said Friday that its second-quarter net profit fell 44 percent because of a multimillion-dollar fine levied by the European Union. The company, whose products range from automotive parts and elevators to slabs of steel, earned 244 million euros ($330 million) in the January-March period, compared with 441 million euros a year earlier. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Man killed by loose truck wheels on Interstate 5 Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Fans turn out to greet local 'Idol' finalist Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/business/7461997.html	Alabama chosen by ThyssenKrupp for $4.2 billion steel plant | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Business Alabama chosen by ThyssenKrupp for $4.2 billion steel plant A steel worker takes a sample at the blast furnace of ThyssenKrupp steel company in Duisburg, western Germany, in this Sept. 22, 2005 file photo. Story Published: May 11, 2007 at 8:58 AM PDT Story Updated: May 11, 2007 at 8:58 AM PDT FRANKFURT, Germany (AP) - Steelmaker ThyssenKrupp AG said Friday it will build a new $4.19 billion steel plant in Alabama, which has attracted other German companies including DaimlerChrysler AG in recent years. The plant - scheduled to open in 2010 and employ as many as 2,700 workers when fully operational - will be near Mobile. The company was lured by several tax breaks and a $400 million incentives package. The Duesseldorf-based company chose Alabama over Louisiana, which also had offered tax breaks. It would be the company's first steelmaking operation in the United States, processing carbon steel and stainless steel for automakers, electrical companies, appliance manufacturers and more. The new plant would be "an integral part of the company's plan to increase growth in the steel and stainless steel division in North America and Europe," supervisory board chairman Ekkehard Schulz said in a statement. Initially, the company had said the project would run some $2.9 billion, but raised the amount to nearly $4.2 billion because "higher capacities and extended plant configurations were shown to be feasible and economic." The company said that once the plant is up and running, it could create as many as 38,000 new jobs related to the mill, from suppliers to transportation to dining and entertainment. In a statement Friday morning, Gov. Bob Riley said a "project this size, with this amount of economic impact, comes along perhaps once in a generation." Louisiana Gov. Kathleen Blanco said it was a "tremendous honor" to be one of two finalists among 20 states that had bid for the project. "Our success with this project demonstrates Louisiana has established a stronghold in the global economy and can successfully compete for world-class projects," she said in a statement. Low-cost slabs will be supplied from a new steel mill in near Rio de Janeiro that is scheduled to start production in 2009 with a capacity of 5 million tons of slabs per year. The new North American plant will process the slabs. "This combination of cost and quality leadership can only be achieved with the new steel mill. At the same time, ThyssenKrupp is investing over 700 million euros ($946.89 million) to strengthen its German facilities and its market position in Europe," he said, adding that the special feature of the steel mill is that it will be a combined plant for flat carbon steel and stainless steel. Shares of ThyssenKrupp were down 2.3 percent in midday trading. The announcement after the company, one of the world's biggest steelmakers, said Friday that its second-quarter net profit fell 44 percent because of a multimillion-dollar fine levied by the European Union. The company, whose products range from automotive parts and elevators to slabs of steel, earned 244 million euros ($330 million) in the January-March period, compared with 441 million euros a year earlier. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Man killed by loose truck wheels on Interstate 5 Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Fans turn out to greet local 'Idol' finalist Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/business/7464677.html	Consumer confidence stuck in rut amid worries about gas prices | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Business Consumer confidence stuck in rut amid worries about gas prices Story Published: May 11, 2007 at 12:00 PM PDT Story Updated: May 11, 2007 at 12:00 PM PDT WASHINGTON (AP) - Consumer confidence was essentially stuck in a rut as worries about whether gasoline prices will move higher made people feel anxious about the economy's prospects and their own financial positions. The RBC Cash Index found that confidence clocked in at 87.1 in May. The new figure hovered near April's reading of 85.4, a six-month low. The index is based on the results from the international polling firm Ipsos. "Consumer confidence appears to be spinning its wheels," observed Richard Yamarone, economist at Argus Research. "Although employment is mostly stable, there are many uncertainties on the horizon," Yamarone said. "Will energy prices go even higher? How is the housing slump going to play out? It is the fear of the unknowns that is coloring peoples' feelings." Those fears were a factor in the big drop in peoples' feelings about how the economy and their own finances will fare over the next six months. This expectations measure fell to 24.3, a nine-month low. In April, this gauge stood at 41.7. The report suggested that consumers had a bit of a split personality when it came to their feelings about the economy. On the one hand, consumers expressed angst about the future. On the other, they felt better about the current economic situation. A measure tracking consumers' sentiments on current conditions rose to 113.2 in May, up from 99 in April. Economists attributed this pickup to a mostly healthy - albeit slowing - jobs market and the recent string of record-high closings logged on Wall Street. "People are hanging in there. There's a sense like things are OK for now but there seems to be a gnawing feeling - can it last?" said Stuart Hoffman, chief economist at PNC Financial Services Group. "People are a bit wary of how long either the economy or their own personal finances can hold up in the face of higher gasoline prices and a weaker housing market. But so far, it is more of a fear factor than a reality show," Hoffman added. The fresh reading on consumer confidence came as President Bush continues to shoulder a low job-approval rating of 35 percent from the American public, according to a separate AP-Ipsos poll. On the economy, 41 percent approve of the president's economic stewardship, while 56 percent disapprove, the poll shows. Consumers are a major force shaping overall economic activity. Economists keep close tabs on confidence barometers for clues about peoples' willingness to spend. Economic growth slowed to a near crawl of a 1.3 percent pace in the January-to-March quarter, the weakest showing in four years. The main culprit: the housing slump, which caused some businesses to cut back on their spending. Consumers, however, showed resilience and managed to keep on spending, preventing the economy from losing even more speed. Analysts wonder how much of an appetite consumers will have in the face of surging gasoline prices. A fresh answer came Friday when the government reported that retail sales dropped 0.2 percent in April, a much weaker showing than economists were forecasting. One day earlier, big retailers also reported disappointing sales for April. The reports cast a dimmer light on the outlook for consumer spending in the months ahead. The weaker sales were blamed on shoppers having to shell out more to fill up their gas tanks, leaving them less to spend on other things. Gasoline prices climbed to $3.05 a gallon nationwide in early May, from $2.97 in late April, the Energy Department says. The reason why consumers have been holding up to the painful housing slump and gyrating energy prices has been because the job market has been strong. There have been recent signs, though, that it is weakening a bit. The government reported last week that the unemployment rate edged up to 4.5 percent as employers added just 88,000 new jobs during the month, the fewest in two and a half years. Growth in workers' paychecks also slowed. Consumers' feelings about the job market clocked dipped a bit in May to 123.8 in May, which still was a strong showing. In April, the index stood at 126.4. An index tracking people's attitudes about investing rose to 107.5 in May, from 92.3 in April. Analysts attributed the improvement to the recent string of record-high closings on Wall Street. The overall confidence index is benchmarked to a reading of 100 on January 2002, when Ipsos started the survey. The RBC consumer confidence index was based on responses from 1,000 adults surveyed Monday through Wednesday about their attitudes on personal finance and the economy. Results of the survey had a margin of sampling error of plus or minus 3 percentage points. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Man killed by loose truck wheels on Interstate 5 Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Fans turn out to greet local 'Idol' finalist Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/business/7464677.html	Consumer confidence stuck in rut amid worries about gas prices | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Business Consumer confidence stuck in rut amid worries about gas prices Story Published: May 11, 2007 at 12:00 PM PDT Story Updated: May 11, 2007 at 12:00 PM PDT WASHINGTON (AP) - Consumer confidence was essentially stuck in a rut as worries about whether gasoline prices will move higher made people feel anxious about the economy's prospects and their own financial positions. The RBC Cash Index found that confidence clocked in at 87.1 in May. The new figure hovered near April's reading of 85.4, a six-month low. The index is based on the results from the international polling firm Ipsos. "Consumer confidence appears to be spinning its wheels," observed Richard Yamarone, economist at Argus Research. "Although employment is mostly stable, there are many uncertainties on the horizon," Yamarone said. "Will energy prices go even higher? How is the housing slump going to play out? It is the fear of the unknowns that is coloring peoples' feelings." Those fears were a factor in the big drop in peoples' feelings about how the economy and their own finances will fare over the next six months. This expectations measure fell to 24.3, a nine-month low. In April, this gauge stood at 41.7. The report suggested that consumers had a bit of a split personality when it came to their feelings about the economy. On the one hand, consumers expressed angst about the future. On the other, they felt better about the current economic situation. A measure tracking consumers' sentiments on current conditions rose to 113.2 in May, up from 99 in April. Economists attributed this pickup to a mostly healthy - albeit slowing - jobs market and the recent string of record-high closings logged on Wall Street. "People are hanging in there. There's a sense like things are OK for now but there seems to be a gnawing feeling - can it last?" said Stuart Hoffman, chief economist at PNC Financial Services Group. "People are a bit wary of how long either the economy or their own personal finances can hold up in the face of higher gasoline prices and a weaker housing market. But so far, it is more of a fear factor than a reality show," Hoffman added. The fresh reading on consumer confidence came as President Bush continues to shoulder a low job-approval rating of 35 percent from the American public, according to a separate AP-Ipsos poll. On the economy, 41 percent approve of the president's economic stewardship, while 56 percent disapprove, the poll shows. Consumers are a major force shaping overall economic activity. Economists keep close tabs on confidence barometers for clues about peoples' willingness to spend. Economic growth slowed to a near crawl of a 1.3 percent pace in the January-to-March quarter, the weakest showing in four years. The main culprit: the housing slump, which caused some businesses to cut back on their spending. Consumers, however, showed resilience and managed to keep on spending, preventing the economy from losing even more speed. Analysts wonder how much of an appetite consumers will have in the face of surging gasoline prices. A fresh answer came Friday when the government reported that retail sales dropped 0.2 percent in April, a much weaker showing than economists were forecasting. One day earlier, big retailers also reported disappointing sales for April. The reports cast a dimmer light on the outlook for consumer spending in the months ahead. The weaker sales were blamed on shoppers having to shell out more to fill up their gas tanks, leaving them less to spend on other things. Gasoline prices climbed to $3.05 a gallon nationwide in early May, from $2.97 in late April, the Energy Department says. The reason why consumers have been holding up to the painful housing slump and gyrating energy prices has been because the job market has been strong. There have been recent signs, though, that it is weakening a bit. The government reported last week that the unemployment rate edged up to 4.5 percent as employers added just 88,000 new jobs during the month, the fewest in two and a half years. Growth in workers' paychecks also slowed. Consumers' feelings about the job market clocked dipped a bit in May to 123.8 in May, which still was a strong showing. In April, the index stood at 126.4. An index tracking people's attitudes about investing rose to 107.5 in May, from 92.3 in April. Analysts attributed the improvement to the recent string of record-high closings on Wall Street. The overall confidence index is benchmarked to a reading of 100 on January 2002, when Ipsos started the survey. The RBC consumer confidence index was based on responses from 1,000 adults surveyed Monday through Wednesday about their attitudes on personal finance and the economy. Results of the survey had a margin of sampling error of plus or minus 3 percentage points. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Man killed by loose truck wheels on Interstate 5 Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Fans turn out to greet local 'Idol' finalist Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/business/7440971.html	Retailers post weak April sales | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Business Retailers post weak April sales Story Published: May 10, 2007 at 8:39 AM PDT Story Updated: May 10, 2007 at 8:39 AM PDT NEW YORK (AP) - Rising gasoline prices and the slumping housing market kept consumers out of stores last month, leaving many of the nation's merchants with disappointing sales results. As retailers released their April sales figures Thursday, weak performers included Wal-Mart Stores Inc., which recorded a rare drop in business, as well as J.C. Penney Co. and Federated Department Stores Inc. "Consumers are feeling pressured by higher gasoline prices and a sluggish housing market, particularly low and middle income consumers," said Ken Perkins, president of RetailMetrics LLC, a research company in Swampscott, Mass. Analysts had already expected last month to be weak after an early Easter motivated many consumers to do their holiday shopping in March, siphoning away part of April's business. But sales were much softer than expected, raising concerns that retailers will also see disappointing results in the months ahead. Perkins and other analysts say they will be closely watching how May fares since the month will provide a better indication of the health of the consumer. Wal-Mart reported a 3.5 percent decline in same-store sales, or sales at stores open at least a year. Same-store sales are considered the best indicator of a retailer's performance. Analysts surveyed by Thomson Financial had expected a 1.1 percent decrease. Wal-Mart warned last month it expected same-store sales in April to be anywhere from unchanged to down 2 percent, but business was much weaker because of disappointing apparel and home goods sales at its Wal-Mart discount chain. Same-store sales at the discount stores were down 4.6 percent, while at the Sam's Club warehouse club division, same-store sales rose 2.5 percent. The last time Wal-Mart reported a drop in same-store sales was last November,when the retailer posted a 0.1 percent decrease. Wal-Mart said the slowing economy was a big factor in its sluggish performance. It noted that recent surveys of discount store shoppers show that consumers are increasingly concerned about rising gas prices, which are now averaging over $3 a gallon nationwide. Wal-Mart also blamed its performance on cold weather and the earlier Easter. It also said product recalls by dog and cat food manufacturers contributed to a slowdown in pet supply sales during April. The world's largest retailer said it expects May same-store sales to rise 1 percent to 2 percent. Federated, which operates Macy's and Bloomingdale's, posted a 2.2 percent decline in same-store sales, while analysts forecast a 1.7 percent gain. Penney said its same-store sales fell 2.7 percent, more than the 0.8 percent analysts expected. Costco Wholesale Corp. had a 7 percent same-store sales gain, better than the 6.3 percent estimate. Apparel retailer Bebe Stores Inc. had a 9 percent drop, worse than the 6.6 percent analysts forecast. Wet Seal had a 9.6 percent decline, more than the 8.3 percent estimate. Gadget retailer Sharper Image Inc., which has been languishing for months, suffered an 11 percent drop in same-store sales. Still, the results were better than the 25 percent decrease analysts expected. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Man killed by loose truck wheels on Interstate 5 Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Fans turn out to greet local 'Idol' finalist Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/business/7440971.html	Retailers post weak April sales | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Business Retailers post weak April sales Story Published: May 10, 2007 at 8:39 AM PDT Story Updated: May 10, 2007 at 8:39 AM PDT NEW YORK (AP) - Rising gasoline prices and the slumping housing market kept consumers out of stores last month, leaving many of the nation's merchants with disappointing sales results. As retailers released their April sales figures Thursday, weak performers included Wal-Mart Stores Inc., which recorded a rare drop in business, as well as J.C. Penney Co. and Federated Department Stores Inc. "Consumers are feeling pressured by higher gasoline prices and a sluggish housing market, particularly low and middle income consumers," said Ken Perkins, president of RetailMetrics LLC, a research company in Swampscott, Mass. Analysts had already expected last month to be weak after an early Easter motivated many consumers to do their holiday shopping in March, siphoning away part of April's business. But sales were much softer than expected, raising concerns that retailers will also see disappointing results in the months ahead. Perkins and other analysts say they will be closely watching how May fares since the month will provide a better indication of the health of the consumer. Wal-Mart reported a 3.5 percent decline in same-store sales, or sales at stores open at least a year. Same-store sales are considered the best indicator of a retailer's performance. Analysts surveyed by Thomson Financial had expected a 1.1 percent decrease. Wal-Mart warned last month it expected same-store sales in April to be anywhere from unchanged to down 2 percent, but business was much weaker because of disappointing apparel and home goods sales at its Wal-Mart discount chain. Same-store sales at the discount stores were down 4.6 percent, while at the Sam's Club warehouse club division, same-store sales rose 2.5 percent. The last time Wal-Mart reported a drop in same-store sales was last November,when the retailer posted a 0.1 percent decrease. Wal-Mart said the slowing economy was a big factor in its sluggish performance. It noted that recent surveys of discount store shoppers show that consumers are increasingly concerned about rising gas prices, which are now averaging over $3 a gallon nationwide. Wal-Mart also blamed its performance on cold weather and the earlier Easter. It also said product recalls by dog and cat food manufacturers contributed to a slowdown in pet supply sales during April. The world's largest retailer said it expects May same-store sales to rise 1 percent to 2 percent. Federated, which operates Macy's and Bloomingdale's, posted a 2.2 percent decline in same-store sales, while analysts forecast a 1.7 percent gain. Penney said its same-store sales fell 2.7 percent, more than the 0.8 percent analysts expected. Costco Wholesale Corp. had a 7 percent same-store sales gain, better than the 6.3 percent estimate. Apparel retailer Bebe Stores Inc. had a 9 percent drop, worse than the 6.6 percent analysts forecast. Wet Seal had a 9.6 percent decline, more than the 8.3 percent estimate. Gadget retailer Sharper Image Inc., which has been languishing for months, suffered an 11 percent drop in same-store sales. Still, the results were better than the 25 percent decrease analysts expected. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Man killed by loose truck wheels on Interstate 5 Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Fans turn out to greet local 'Idol' finalist Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/business	KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Business Consumer confidence stuck in rut amid worries about gas prices Consumer confidence was essentially stuck in a rut as worries about whether gasoline prices will move higher made people feel anxious about the economy's prospects and their own financial positions. Guilty pleas entered in giant Wall Street insider-trading ring A married couple, both lawyers, pleaded guilty to conspiracy and securities fraud Thursday in what was described as one of the biggest insider-trading operations since the 1980s, a $15 million scam that reached into some of the nation's top financial firms. Alabama chosen by ThyssenKrupp for $4.2 billion steel plant Steelmaker ThyssenKrupp AG said Friday it will build a new $4.19 billion steel plant in Alabama, which has attracted other German companies including DaimlerChrysler AG in recent years. Hershey cuts 2007 earnings estimate Little-known company purchases remaining Yukos assets Rates on 30-year mortgages edge lower for third time in last 4 weeks Northwest cherry growers expect another large harvest EADS swings to 1st-quarter loss, dragged down by Airbus Retailers post weak April sales JetBlue names COO Barger to replace founder Neeleman as CEO Viacom's first-quarter earnings down 36 percent Clearwire loss widens in first quarter since IPO Senate committee approves fuel economy increase to 35 mpg Microsoft signs Web video deals with Volvo, Chivas Brothers Cisco shares fall despite big third-quarter profit Grapeseed oil company uses recycled product as biofuel for its car Grasso wins round in NYSE pay fight Amazon settles patent suits with IBM 'Cocaine' drink is pulled from shelves Committee approves fuel economy increase Warner Music posts wider 2nd quarter loss CVS 1st quarter profits rise 24 percent Gas prices surge to record U.S. average of $3.07 per gallon Russian court convicts principal of using pirated Microsoft software Alcoa offers to buy Canada's Alcan for cash and stock worth $27 billion Buffett provides some details about his succession plan Ford to close 1 Ohio plant, shut down another for a year Survey: Gas prices reach record average Qantas Airways says takeover is finished Stocks rise for fourth straight session Analysts cynical of Microsoft-Yahoo deal Starbucks earnings increase 18 percent Weyerhaeuser swings to a first-quarter profit on Domtar transaction Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Man killed by loose truck wheels on Interstate 5 Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Fans turn out to greet local 'Idol' finalist Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/business	KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Business Consumer confidence stuck in rut amid worries about gas prices Consumer confidence was essentially stuck in a rut as worries about whether gasoline prices will move higher made people feel anxious about the economy's prospects and their own financial positions. Guilty pleas entered in giant Wall Street insider-trading ring A married couple, both lawyers, pleaded guilty to conspiracy and securities fraud Thursday in what was described as one of the biggest insider-trading operations since the 1980s, a $15 million scam that reached into some of the nation's top financial firms. Alabama chosen by ThyssenKrupp for $4.2 billion steel plant Steelmaker ThyssenKrupp AG said Friday it will build a new $4.19 billion steel plant in Alabama, which has attracted other German companies including DaimlerChrysler AG in recent years. Hershey cuts 2007 earnings estimate Little-known company purchases remaining Yukos assets Rates on 30-year mortgages edge lower for third time in last 4 weeks Northwest cherry growers expect another large harvest EADS swings to 1st-quarter loss, dragged down by Airbus Retailers post weak April sales JetBlue names COO Barger to replace founder Neeleman as CEO Viacom's first-quarter earnings down 36 percent Clearwire loss widens in first quarter since IPO Senate committee approves fuel economy increase to 35 mpg Microsoft signs Web video deals with Volvo, Chivas Brothers Cisco shares fall despite big third-quarter profit Grapeseed oil company uses recycled product as biofuel for its car Grasso wins round in NYSE pay fight Amazon settles patent suits with IBM 'Cocaine' drink is pulled from shelves Committee approves fuel economy increase Warner Music posts wider 2nd quarter loss CVS 1st quarter profits rise 24 percent Gas prices surge to record U.S. average of $3.07 per gallon Russian court convicts principal of using pirated Microsoft software Alcoa offers to buy Canada's Alcan for cash and stock worth $27 billion Buffett provides some details about his succession plan Ford to close 1 Ohio plant, shut down another for a year Survey: Gas prices reach record average Qantas Airways says takeover is finished Stocks rise for fourth straight session Analysts cynical of Microsoft-Yahoo deal Starbucks earnings increase 18 percent Weyerhaeuser swings to a first-quarter profit on Domtar transaction Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Man killed by loose truck wheels on Interstate 5 Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Fans turn out to greet local 'Idol' finalist Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/business/7462082.html	Guilty pleas entered in giant Wall Street insider-trading ring | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Business Guilty pleas entered in giant Wall Street insider-trading ring Randi Collotta, right, is escorted by her attorney Michael Cornacchia as she leaves federal court in New York, Thursday May 10, 2007. Story Published: May 11, 2007 at 9:01 AM PDT Story Updated: May 11, 2007 at 9:01 AM PDT NEW YORK (AP) - A married couple, both lawyers, pleaded guilty to conspiracy and securities fraud Thursday in what was described as one of the biggest insider-trading operations since the 1980s, a $15 million scam that reached into some of the nation's top financial firms. Randi Collotta, 30, a former employee of Morgan Stanley and Co. in Manhattan, and her husband, Christopher Collotta, 34, who worked in private practice, were among 13 people who were criminally charged in the case. The couple received $9,000 in kickbacks for inside tips that generated more than $600,000 in illegal profits, Assistant U.S. Attorney Andrew Fish said. In a plea deal with the government, Randi Collotta agreed not to appeal any sentence as long it's between one and 1½ years in prison. Christopher Collotta vowed not appeal any sentence from 10 months to a year and four months in prison. U.S. District Judge Victor Marrero set sentencing for Sept. 7. They remain free on $250,000 bail each. Randi Collotta, sobbing through much of the proceeding, said she agreed in September 2004 with her husband to provide inside information she obtained in her job at Morgan Stanley to a broker, Marc Jurman of Palm Beach Garden, Fla. Jurman pleaded guilty in March to conspiracy and securities fraud. He was also named in a Securities and Exchange Commission complaint earlier this year. She said she told her husband about pending mergers and acquisitions between September 2004 and July 2005. "I knew my husband would share the information with Marc Jurman," she said. She added: "I understood my actions were wrong and I accept responsibility for what I did." Fish said Jurman shared that inside information with others, resulting in several hundred thousand dollars in illegal profits beyond $38,500 Jurman pocketed after trading securities based on what the Collotas had told him. After the plea, Randi Collotta declined to comment. Her lawyer, Kenneth Breen, said, "Randi Collotta accepted responsibility for what she did and today took a significant step in putting this behind her." Christopher Collotta, like his wife, said in court that he knew he acted illegally and accepted responsibility. He declined to comment outside court as well. His lawyer, Brian Rafferty, issued a statement outside court saying his client "deeply regrets his actions in participating in these offenses, and realizes that he will have to live with the consequences of his actions for the rest of his life." The government said the trading ring relied on insiders at Morgan Stanley and UBS Securities LLC to steal valuable secrets from the companies. It also alleged a Banc of America Securities LLC broker accepted kickbacks and that two former representatives of Bear Stearns & Co. obtained proprietary UBS information. The SEC has described the case as one of the most pervasive Wall Street insider trading rings since Ivan Boesky and Dennis Levine engaged in notorious insider-trading schemes during the 1980s. According to prosecutors, Randi Collotta was an associate in Morgan Stanley's global compliance division during the conspiracy. When they announced the case in March, prosecutors and SEC officials said the defendants included registered representatives, compliance personnel and hedge fund portfolio managers who traded hundreds of tips over five years. U.S. Attorney Michael Garcia said Wall Street professionals repeatedly traded on secrets revealed to them by insiders at UBS and Morgan Stanley. Stock upgrades and downgrades by UBS and impending corporate acquisitions involving Morgan Stanley clients were relayed before the news hit the market, authorities said. The SEC said ringleaders working the UBS side of the scheme went to great lengths to hide their actions through clandestine meetings, disposable cell phones and secret codes. At least three people have already pleaded guilty to charges in the case and await sentencing. Meanwhile, Jennifer Wang, who also worked at Morgan Stanley, and her husband, Ruben Chen, of Englishtown, N.J., were charged Thursday in an unrelated insider-trading case with conspiracy and securities fraud. Prosecutors said Wang made $600,000 on secrets she stole from Morgan Stanley while she was a vice president. She and Chen, a vice president at ING Investment Management Americas, resigned after investigations began. After a brief court appearance late Thursday, Wang and Chen were each released on $2 million bail. Chen is required to submit to electronic monitoring. A defense lawyer did not immediately return a telephone call for comment. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Man killed by loose truck wheels on Interstate 5 Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Fans turn out to greet local 'Idol' finalist Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/business/7462082.html	Guilty pleas entered in giant Wall Street insider-trading ring | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Business Guilty pleas entered in giant Wall Street insider-trading ring Randi Collotta, right, is escorted by her attorney Michael Cornacchia as she leaves federal court in New York, Thursday May 10, 2007. Story Published: May 11, 2007 at 9:01 AM PDT Story Updated: May 11, 2007 at 9:01 AM PDT NEW YORK (AP) - A married couple, both lawyers, pleaded guilty to conspiracy and securities fraud Thursday in what was described as one of the biggest insider-trading operations since the 1980s, a $15 million scam that reached into some of the nation's top financial firms. Randi Collotta, 30, a former employee of Morgan Stanley and Co. in Manhattan, and her husband, Christopher Collotta, 34, who worked in private practice, were among 13 people who were criminally charged in the case. The couple received $9,000 in kickbacks for inside tips that generated more than $600,000 in illegal profits, Assistant U.S. Attorney Andrew Fish said. In a plea deal with the government, Randi Collotta agreed not to appeal any sentence as long it's between one and 1½ years in prison. Christopher Collotta vowed not appeal any sentence from 10 months to a year and four months in prison. U.S. District Judge Victor Marrero set sentencing for Sept. 7. They remain free on $250,000 bail each. Randi Collotta, sobbing through much of the proceeding, said she agreed in September 2004 with her husband to provide inside information she obtained in her job at Morgan Stanley to a broker, Marc Jurman of Palm Beach Garden, Fla. Jurman pleaded guilty in March to conspiracy and securities fraud. He was also named in a Securities and Exchange Commission complaint earlier this year. She said she told her husband about pending mergers and acquisitions between September 2004 and July 2005. "I knew my husband would share the information with Marc Jurman," she said. She added: "I understood my actions were wrong and I accept responsibility for what I did." Fish said Jurman shared that inside information with others, resulting in several hundred thousand dollars in illegal profits beyond $38,500 Jurman pocketed after trading securities based on what the Collotas had told him. After the plea, Randi Collotta declined to comment. Her lawyer, Kenneth Breen, said, "Randi Collotta accepted responsibility for what she did and today took a significant step in putting this behind her." Christopher Collotta, like his wife, said in court that he knew he acted illegally and accepted responsibility. He declined to comment outside court as well. His lawyer, Brian Rafferty, issued a statement outside court saying his client "deeply regrets his actions in participating in these offenses, and realizes that he will have to live with the consequences of his actions for the rest of his life." The government said the trading ring relied on insiders at Morgan Stanley and UBS Securities LLC to steal valuable secrets from the companies. It also alleged a Banc of America Securities LLC broker accepted kickbacks and that two former representatives of Bear Stearns & Co. obtained proprietary UBS information. The SEC has described the case as one of the most pervasive Wall Street insider trading rings since Ivan Boesky and Dennis Levine engaged in notorious insider-trading schemes during the 1980s. According to prosecutors, Randi Collotta was an associate in Morgan Stanley's global compliance division during the conspiracy. When they announced the case in March, prosecutors and SEC officials said the defendants included registered representatives, compliance personnel and hedge fund portfolio managers who traded hundreds of tips over five years. U.S. Attorney Michael Garcia said Wall Street professionals repeatedly traded on secrets revealed to them by insiders at UBS and Morgan Stanley. Stock upgrades and downgrades by UBS and impending corporate acquisitions involving Morgan Stanley clients were relayed before the news hit the market, authorities said. The SEC said ringleaders working the UBS side of the scheme went to great lengths to hide their actions through clandestine meetings, disposable cell phones and secret codes. At least three people have already pleaded guilty to charges in the case and await sentencing. Meanwhile, Jennifer Wang, who also worked at Morgan Stanley, and her husband, Ruben Chen, of Englishtown, N.J., were charged Thursday in an unrelated insider-trading case with conspiracy and securities fraud. Prosecutors said Wang made $600,000 on secrets she stole from Morgan Stanley while she was a vice president. She and Chen, a vice president at ING Investment Management Americas, resigned after investigations began. After a brief court appearance late Thursday, Wang and Chen were each released on $2 million bail. Chen is required to submit to electronic monitoring. A defense lawyer did not immediately return a telephone call for comment. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Man killed by loose truck wheels on Interstate 5 Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Fans turn out to greet local 'Idol' finalist Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/business/7461897.html	Little-known company purchases remaining Yukos assets | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Business Little-known company purchases remaining Yukos assets Headquarters of Russian oil gaint Yukos seen in Moscow, Thursday, May 10, 2007. Story Published: May 11, 2007 at 8:54 AM PDT Story Updated: May 11, 2007 at 8:54 AM PDT MOSCOW (AP) - A little-known Russian company, OOO Prana, on Friday bought the last remaining assets of the bankrupt Yukos oil company, including its headquarters building, for 100.092 billion rubles ($3.87 billion), beating out Russian state oil company Rosneft. Once Russia's largest oil producer and regarded as one of the country's best-run and most transparent enterprises, Yukos was dismantled in a series of legal actions that some observers saw as political revenge by the Kremlin. Prana outbid state-controlled oil company OAO Rosneft in an auction that exceeded the opening price by more than fourfold. The starting price was 22 billion rubles ($852 million), which had been seen as a reasonable price for the bundle of assets that included the 22-story headquarters building in downtown Moscow and an array of subsidiary operations. Yukos was driven into bankruptcy by back tax bills of more than $30 billion, imposed in legal actions that came as former owner Mikhail Khodorkovsky was arrested, convicted of fraud and tax evasion and sentenced to eight years in prison. Before his arrest, Khodorkovsky was estimated by Forbes magazine to be the richest man in Russia with a fortune worth $15 billion. Khodorkovsky had funded opposition political parties and had political ambitions. As little as three years ago, Rosneft was something of an underachiever among Russia's oil companies - little more than a loose bundle of assets that hadn't been privatized in the post-Soviet economic restructuring. But with its purchase of Yukos production units, it is now Russia's largest oil producer, with a capacity equivalent to that of Nigeria. Rosneft obtained its first Yukos unit in 2004, from an apparent shell company that had bought it at auction. Friday's auction led to speculation over whether some analogous deal may be in the works, given the obscurity of Prana. Bankruptcy organizers said they had no information on the company's affiliations. "Few could have expected the price to rise so high. We hope that all obligations taken on by the winner will be met," said Nikolai Lashkevich, a spokesman for the Yukos bankruptcy supervisor. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Man killed by loose truck wheels on Interstate 5 Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Fans turn out to greet local 'Idol' finalist Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/business/7461897.html	Little-known company purchases remaining Yukos assets | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Business Little-known company purchases remaining Yukos assets Headquarters of Russian oil gaint Yukos seen in Moscow, Thursday, May 10, 2007. Story Published: May 11, 2007 at 8:54 AM PDT Story Updated: May 11, 2007 at 8:54 AM PDT MOSCOW (AP) - A little-known Russian company, OOO Prana, on Friday bought the last remaining assets of the bankrupt Yukos oil company, including its headquarters building, for 100.092 billion rubles ($3.87 billion), beating out Russian state oil company Rosneft. Once Russia's largest oil producer and regarded as one of the country's best-run and most transparent enterprises, Yukos was dismantled in a series of legal actions that some observers saw as political revenge by the Kremlin. Prana outbid state-controlled oil company OAO Rosneft in an auction that exceeded the opening price by more than fourfold. The starting price was 22 billion rubles ($852 million), which had been seen as a reasonable price for the bundle of assets that included the 22-story headquarters building in downtown Moscow and an array of subsidiary operations. Yukos was driven into bankruptcy by back tax bills of more than $30 billion, imposed in legal actions that came as former owner Mikhail Khodorkovsky was arrested, convicted of fraud and tax evasion and sentenced to eight years in prison. Before his arrest, Khodorkovsky was estimated by Forbes magazine to be the richest man in Russia with a fortune worth $15 billion. Khodorkovsky had funded opposition political parties and had political ambitions. As little as three years ago, Rosneft was something of an underachiever among Russia's oil companies - little more than a loose bundle of assets that hadn't been privatized in the post-Soviet economic restructuring. But with its purchase of Yukos production units, it is now Russia's largest oil producer, with a capacity equivalent to that of Nigeria. Rosneft obtained its first Yukos unit in 2004, from an apparent shell company that had bought it at auction. Friday's auction led to speculation over whether some analogous deal may be in the works, given the obscurity of Prana. Bankruptcy organizers said they had no information on the company's affiliations. "Few could have expected the price to rise so high. We hope that all obligations taken on by the winner will be met," said Nikolai Lashkevich, a spokesman for the Yukos bankruptcy supervisor. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Man killed by loose truck wheels on Interstate 5 Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Fans turn out to greet local 'Idol' finalist Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/business/7441121.html	Northwest cherry growers expect another large harvest | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Business Northwest cherry growers expect another large harvest Leonel Castillo dumps a bucket of Lambert cherries into a box at the Pinedale Ranch south of Wenatchee, Wash. in this file photo from Aug. 1, 2002. Story Published: May 10, 2007 at 8:45 AM PDT Story Updated: May 10, 2007 at 8:45 AM PDT YAKIMA, Wash. (AP) - Five straight years of record crops aren't dimming Northwest cherry growers' predictions for 2007, as more acreage comes into production and volume continues to climb. Growers are estimating the 2007 crop at between 140,000 and 150,000 tons for the five-state region that includes Washington, Oregon, Idaho, Utah and Montana. Most of that is grown in Washington, where this year's crop should be about 120,000 tons, said B.J. Thurlby, president of Northwest Cherry Growers, a promotional group for growers and shippers. In 2006, Washington state cherry growers harvested an all-time high of 117,000 tons. "Our crop last year grew 20 percent over the previous record crop in 2005. We don't think we're going to grow that much this season, but we do think we'll top that again," Thurlby said. If the weather stays warm, with no extended heavy rain, growers see potential for the harvest to come in at the higher end of the range predicted for the entire region, Thurlby said. Northwest growers could face increasing competition from California, where growers are predicting a normal-size crop for the first time in years. California and the Northwest produce the bulk of the nation's sweet cherries. California growers are estimating their 2007 crop at about 60,000 tons following several down years. The past two years, the harvest was reduced by half, to about 30,000 tons, due to poor weather. California growers begin their harvest several weeks ahead of the Northwest, but the tail end of their season usually overlaps with the Northwest. "We've had some acreage increases, so we probably have a higher potential. It just remains to be seen whether that comes true," said Jim Culbertson, manager of the California Cherry Advisory Board. California growers have planted more varieties that ripen earlier in the season to avoid that competition, Culbertson said. At the same time, Northwest growers continue to plant varieties that ripen later to keep cherries on retail shelves well into August. "All of that planting, or I'd say 90 percent of it, is post-Fourth of July cherries, late-season cherries," Thurlby said. "The great message to consumers is that cherries are now available until the middle of August, where just two or three years ago, they would be done by the third week of July." Ron Walter, who grows cherries on 10 acres in north-central Washington's Squilchuck Valley, isn't worried about the effects of a strong California crop - it might just whet consumers' appetites for sweet cherries. "They'll probably overlap the start of the Washington crop a few days to a week," Walter said. "But if they put good quality fruit on the market, then the retailers and the consumers are usually there for Washington cherries, too." Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Man killed by loose truck wheels on Interstate 5 Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Fans turn out to greet local 'Idol' finalist Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/business/7441121.html	Northwest cherry growers expect another large harvest | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Business Northwest cherry growers expect another large harvest Leonel Castillo dumps a bucket of Lambert cherries into a box at the Pinedale Ranch south of Wenatchee, Wash. in this file photo from Aug. 1, 2002. Story Published: May 10, 2007 at 8:45 AM PDT Story Updated: May 10, 2007 at 8:45 AM PDT YAKIMA, Wash. (AP) - Five straight years of record crops aren't dimming Northwest cherry growers' predictions for 2007, as more acreage comes into production and volume continues to climb. Growers are estimating the 2007 crop at between 140,000 and 150,000 tons for the five-state region that includes Washington, Oregon, Idaho, Utah and Montana. Most of that is grown in Washington, where this year's crop should be about 120,000 tons, said B.J. Thurlby, president of Northwest Cherry Growers, a promotional group for growers and shippers. In 2006, Washington state cherry growers harvested an all-time high of 117,000 tons. "Our crop last year grew 20 percent over the previous record crop in 2005. We don't think we're going to grow that much this season, but we do think we'll top that again," Thurlby said. If the weather stays warm, with no extended heavy rain, growers see potential for the harvest to come in at the higher end of the range predicted for the entire region, Thurlby said. Northwest growers could face increasing competition from California, where growers are predicting a normal-size crop for the first time in years. California and the Northwest produce the bulk of the nation's sweet cherries. California growers are estimating their 2007 crop at about 60,000 tons following several down years. The past two years, the harvest was reduced by half, to about 30,000 tons, due to poor weather. California growers begin their harvest several weeks ahead of the Northwest, but the tail end of their season usually overlaps with the Northwest. "We've had some acreage increases, so we probably have a higher potential. It just remains to be seen whether that comes true," said Jim Culbertson, manager of the California Cherry Advisory Board. California growers have planted more varieties that ripen earlier in the season to avoid that competition, Culbertson said. At the same time, Northwest growers continue to plant varieties that ripen later to keep cherries on retail shelves well into August. "All of that planting, or I'd say 90 percent of it, is post-Fourth of July cherries, late-season cherries," Thurlby said. "The great message to consumers is that cherries are now available until the middle of August, where just two or three years ago, they would be done by the third week of July." Ron Walter, who grows cherries on 10 acres in north-central Washington's Squilchuck Valley, isn't worried about the effects of a strong California crop - it might just whet consumers' appetites for sweet cherries. "They'll probably overlap the start of the Washington crop a few days to a week," Walter said. "But if they put good quality fruit on the market, then the retailers and the consumers are usually there for Washington cherries, too." Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Man killed by loose truck wheels on Interstate 5 Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Fans turn out to greet local 'Idol' finalist Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/business/7448801.html	Rates on 30-year mortgages edge lower for third time in last 4 weeks | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Business Rates on 30-year mortgages edge lower for third time in last 4 weeks Story Published: May 10, 2007 at 3:14 PM PDT Story Updated: May 10, 2007 at 3:14 PM PDT WASHINGTON (AP) - Rates on 30-year mortgages edged lower for the third week out of the past four, reflecting further evidence that slower economic growth will help keep inflation in check. Mortgage giant Freddie Mac reported Thursday that 30-year, fixed-rate mortgages averaged 6.15 percent nationwide this week, down slightly from 6.16 percent last week. The low for the year was 6.14 percent in early March. Rates have fallen in three of the past four weeks with the latest decline attributed to a weaker-than-expected jobs report which showed just 88,000 jobs were created in April. "Low employment growth in April - the slowest pace since November 2004 - and downward revisions to both February and March job growth tempered market concerns of future increases in the rate of inflation," said Frank Nothaft, chief economist at Freddie Mac. The Federal Reserve on Wednesday decided to keep a key interest rate unchanged as Fed officials continued to watch to make sure that the economic slowdown that is occurring will be enough to lower inflation pressures. Mortgage rates have been relatively stable over the past four months with the 30-year fluctuating in a narrow range that saw it go as high as 6.34 percent in early February and as low as 6.14 percent for the first two weeks in March. Rates on 15-year, fixed-rate mortgages, a popular choice for refinancing, were unchanged at 5.87 percent this week, the same as last week. Five-year adjustable-rate mortgages averaged 5.89 percent this week, up slightly from 5.87 percent last week. One-year adjustable rate mortgages showed the biggest movement, rising to 5.48 percent, compared to 5.42 percent last week. The mortgage rates do not include add-on fees known as points. Thirty-year and 15-year mortgages both carried a nationwide average fee of 0.5 point. Five-year adjustable-rate mortgages carried a 0.6 point and one-year ARMs carried an average fee of 0.7 point. A year ago, rates on 30-year mortgages stood at 6.58 percent while 15-year mortgages were at 6.17 percent. Five-year adjustable-rate mortgages averaged 6.22 percent and one-year adjustable-rate mortgages were at 5.62 percent. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Man killed by loose truck wheels on Interstate 5 Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Fans turn out to greet local 'Idol' finalist Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/business/7448801.html	Rates on 30-year mortgages edge lower for third time in last 4 weeks | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Business Rates on 30-year mortgages edge lower for third time in last 4 weeks Story Published: May 10, 2007 at 3:14 PM PDT Story Updated: May 10, 2007 at 3:14 PM PDT WASHINGTON (AP) - Rates on 30-year mortgages edged lower for the third week out of the past four, reflecting further evidence that slower economic growth will help keep inflation in check. Mortgage giant Freddie Mac reported Thursday that 30-year, fixed-rate mortgages averaged 6.15 percent nationwide this week, down slightly from 6.16 percent last week. The low for the year was 6.14 percent in early March. Rates have fallen in three of the past four weeks with the latest decline attributed to a weaker-than-expected jobs report which showed just 88,000 jobs were created in April. "Low employment growth in April - the slowest pace since November 2004 - and downward revisions to both February and March job growth tempered market concerns of future increases in the rate of inflation," said Frank Nothaft, chief economist at Freddie Mac. The Federal Reserve on Wednesday decided to keep a key interest rate unchanged as Fed officials continued to watch to make sure that the economic slowdown that is occurring will be enough to lower inflation pressures. Mortgage rates have been relatively stable over the past four months with the 30-year fluctuating in a narrow range that saw it go as high as 6.34 percent in early February and as low as 6.14 percent for the first two weeks in March. Rates on 15-year, fixed-rate mortgages, a popular choice for refinancing, were unchanged at 5.87 percent this week, the same as last week. Five-year adjustable-rate mortgages averaged 5.89 percent this week, up slightly from 5.87 percent last week. One-year adjustable rate mortgages showed the biggest movement, rising to 5.48 percent, compared to 5.42 percent last week. The mortgage rates do not include add-on fees known as points. Thirty-year and 15-year mortgages both carried a nationwide average fee of 0.5 point. Five-year adjustable-rate mortgages carried a 0.6 point and one-year ARMs carried an average fee of 0.7 point. A year ago, rates on 30-year mortgages stood at 6.58 percent while 15-year mortgages were at 6.17 percent. Five-year adjustable-rate mortgages averaged 6.22 percent and one-year adjustable-rate mortgages were at 5.62 percent. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Man killed by loose truck wheels on Interstate 5 Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Fans turn out to greet local 'Idol' finalist Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/business/7461947.html	Hershey cuts 2007 earnings estimate | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Business Hershey cuts 2007 earnings estimate Story Published: May 11, 2007 at 8:56 AM PDT Story Updated: May 11, 2007 at 8:56 AM PDT HARRISBURG, Pa. (AP) - Hershey, the nation's largest candymaker, said Thursday it will earn less in 2007 than it had originally forecast, a day after disclosing plans to close its last two plants in Canada and cut jobs from another plant in Pennsylvania. Its shares dropped more than 3 percent in morning trading. The Hershey Co. blamed a sluggish domestic business and higher dairy costs for lowering its earnings growth estimate for this year to 4 percent to 6 percent, down from the 7 percent to 9 percent range it forecast last month. It maintained its forecast of sales growth in the 3 percent to 4 percent range. The maker of Reese's, Hershey's Kisses and Ice Breakers gum has pledged to put more muscle into advertising and marketing to invigorate sales after it stumbled in late 2006. On Wednesday, the company continued to reveal more about a three-month-old restructuring plan, saying it will close plants in Dartmouth, Nova Scotia, and Montreal by the end of the year, laying off 730 workers. Another 80 to 100 workers will be laid off from a plant in Lancaster, not far from its headquarters in Hershey, the company said. The planned closure of the Canadian plants brings to six the number of plants Hershey has said it plans to shut down in the next two years as part of a broader restructuring to cut costs and improve efficiency. Hershey has already announced that it will close plants in Oakdale, Calif., Reading, Pa., Naugatuck, Conn., and Smiths Falls, Ontario, while cutting as many as 900 of the 3,000 workers at its three hometown plants in Hershey. All told, the cuts will affect nearly 3,300 workers. Hershey has said it will shift work to other domestic plants and contractors and to a new plant it is building in Monterrey, Mexico, while adding 150 jobs to a plant in Stuarts Draft, Va. When the changes are complete in 2010, one-third of Hershey's existing production lines will be eliminated, while the proportion of its manufacturing in the United States and Canada will shrink to 80 percent from 94 percent now, the company has said. Hershey shares fell $2.06, or 3.75 percent, to $52.93 Thursday. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Man killed by loose truck wheels on Interstate 5 Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Fans turn out to greet local 'Idol' finalist Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/business/7461947.html	Hershey cuts 2007 earnings estimate | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Business Hershey cuts 2007 earnings estimate Story Published: May 11, 2007 at 8:56 AM PDT Story Updated: May 11, 2007 at 8:56 AM PDT HARRISBURG, Pa. (AP) - Hershey, the nation's largest candymaker, said Thursday it will earn less in 2007 than it had originally forecast, a day after disclosing plans to close its last two plants in Canada and cut jobs from another plant in Pennsylvania. Its shares dropped more than 3 percent in morning trading. The Hershey Co. blamed a sluggish domestic business and higher dairy costs for lowering its earnings growth estimate for this year to 4 percent to 6 percent, down from the 7 percent to 9 percent range it forecast last month. It maintained its forecast of sales growth in the 3 percent to 4 percent range. The maker of Reese's, Hershey's Kisses and Ice Breakers gum has pledged to put more muscle into advertising and marketing to invigorate sales after it stumbled in late 2006. On Wednesday, the company continued to reveal more about a three-month-old restructuring plan, saying it will close plants in Dartmouth, Nova Scotia, and Montreal by the end of the year, laying off 730 workers. Another 80 to 100 workers will be laid off from a plant in Lancaster, not far from its headquarters in Hershey, the company said. The planned closure of the Canadian plants brings to six the number of plants Hershey has said it plans to shut down in the next two years as part of a broader restructuring to cut costs and improve efficiency. Hershey has already announced that it will close plants in Oakdale, Calif., Reading, Pa., Naugatuck, Conn., and Smiths Falls, Ontario, while cutting as many as 900 of the 3,000 workers at its three hometown plants in Hershey. All told, the cuts will affect nearly 3,300 workers. Hershey has said it will shift work to other domestic plants and contractors and to a new plant it is building in Monterrey, Mexico, while adding 150 jobs to a plant in Stuarts Draft, Va. When the changes are complete in 2010, one-third of Hershey's existing production lines will be eliminated, while the proportion of its manufacturing in the United States and Canada will shrink to 80 percent from 94 percent now, the company has said. Hershey shares fell $2.06, or 3.75 percent, to $52.93 Thursday. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Man killed by loose truck wheels on Interstate 5 Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Fans turn out to greet local 'Idol' finalist Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/business/7495592.html	Cerberus to pay $7.4 billion for 80.1 percent of Chrysler | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Business Cerberus to pay $7.4 billion for 80.1 percent of Chrysler Story Published: May 14, 2007 at 9:03 AM PDT Story Updated: May 14, 2007 at 9:23 AM PDT FRANKFURT, Germany (AP) - German-based DaimlerChrysler said Monday it will sell almost all of money-losing Chrysler to a private equity firm for $7.4 billion, backing out of a troubled 1998 takeover aimed at creating a global automotive powerhouse. Eighty percent of Chrysler Group, burdened by high pension and health costs and declining market share in the United States, will be sold to Cerberus Capital Management LP. Cerberus is taking a huge risk by agreeing to take on billions of dollars in pension and retiree health care costs at Chrysler. Cerberus Chairman John Snow, a former U.S. treasury secretary, told a news conference in Germany that the New York-based private equity firm believes in Chrysler and wants to see the company recover. "We think at this particular point in Chrysler's history, there may be opportunities in the private world, the world of private investment, that create more room for growth and expansion, that allow management to focus with greater intensity on the day-to-day business of producing better cars," Snow said. DaimlerChrysler AG said Monday it will sell 80.1 percent of the money-losing Chrysler to Cerberus. It was a stunning reversal of the $36 billion takeover by Daimler-Benz AG in 1998 that was meant to be a blissful marriage between Mercedes and Jeep and Dodge brands. The move is a huge bet for Cerberus, which has agreed to take on billions of dollars in pension and retiree health care costs at Chrysler. Cerberus has steadily been building strength in the automobile business. It led a consortium that bought a majority stake last year in General Motors Acceptance Corp., the financial arm of GM, and plans to invest in ailing auto parts giant Delphi. The prospect of a sale to a private equity firm had worried unions in the United States and Canada because of the firms' tendency to slash costs and jobs. Daimler will retain 19.9 percent of Chrysler and continue to work with it on drive systems, purchasing, sales and financial services outside North America. But it was clear that DaimlerChrysler and its chief executive Dieter Zetsche, who tried to prop up sales in the U.S. with his "Dr. Z" television commercials, had lost confidence that a combined Chrysler and Daimler could be a worldwide automotive leader. "We determined that DaimlerChrysler, as currently structured, would not provide the best" framework, Zetsche told reporters in Stuttgart, adding that "at the same time, given my experience with and commitment to Chrysler, this was a difficult task for me personally." Shareholders reacted positively. DaimlerChrysler's U.S. shares rose $2.98, or 3.77 percent, to $82 in Monday morning trading. DaimlerChrysler said the deal is likely to be completed by the third quarter and that it would reduce its overall profit by as much as $5.4 billion for 2007. Snow said that under Chrysler's leadership, the company's quality and productivity have risen and it has a variety of new products that will be well-received in the marketplace. "We're going to support those initiatives and we're going to support your plans," he said. Shareholders must approve changing the German company's name to Daimler AG. A vote will likely be scheduled this fall, the company said. The German-American automaker said an affiliate of Cerberus will hold the majority of a new Chrysler Holding LLC, while DaimlerChrysler will keep a 19.9 percent stake. Private equity firms typically use money provided by pension funds and hedge funds and wealthy private investors to acquire public companies or parts of companies and take them private, often to reorganize and later sell at a profit. But Snow said Cerberus would focus on longer-term earnings. "We don't think about the next quarter. We don't think about what analysts have to say about us. We care very much about producing long-term results for investors," he said. The United Auto Workers' endorsement of the transaction was a shift from earlier this year, when UAW President Ron Gettelfinger warned that a private equity buyer would "strip and flip" the company by selling it off in pieces. Gettelfinger, speaking on WJR-AM in Detroit, said he made a last-minute pitch to keep Chrysler with Daimler over the weekend, but when that failed, he decided to embrace the Cerberus purchase. "We did make a last-ditch effort pitch this weekend in Stuttgart with Dr. Zetsche about maintaining the status quo. That appeared to be less and less an option. He made it unequivocally clear it was no longer an option. He spent an hour and a half taking us through the entire selection process," Gettelfinger said. "We made the pitch all the way home that we wanted the Chrysler Group to stay under the Daimler umbrella but it's not there. The decision has been made, we're supportive of it." "We're going to close that past chapter. We're going to move forward." Canadian Auto Workers President Buzz Hargrove said he was assured that the collective bargaining agreement with Chrysler would be honored and that no jobs would be eliminated. Analysts said last week that Magna International founder and Chairman Frank Stronach was the likely leading bidder for Chrysler. Billionaire investor Kirk Kerkorian, who tried to take control of Chrysler in the 1990s, also has said he would make a bid, but it was apparently spurned. Zetsche announced Feb. 14 that all options were open for Chrysler, which lost $1.5 billion last year and is undergoing a restructuring plan that will eventually shed 13,000 jobs. Snow said the deal was a sign of faith in Chrysler, an iconic American brand and third-largest U.S. carmaker behind General Motors Corp. and Ford Motor Co. Norris Freeman III, 33, of Detroit, a 12-year Chrysler employee who works the line at the Warren Truck Assembly Plant, was skeptical of the move. "I don't think Cerberus is going to do us any justice. I think Kirk Kerkorian had a better interest in us. I think Cerberus is in it just for the money," he said. Cerberus also has former Vice President Dan Quayle as an adviser. David W. Thursfield, who used to run Ford in Europe, is a senior member of the operations team in Cerberus' automotive and industrial practice. And Wolfgang Bernhard, former Chrysler chief operating officer, is a newcomer to Cerberus. Last year, GM sold a majority stake in its General Motors Acceptance Corp. financing arm to a consortium of investors led by Cerberus for about $14 billion. Analysts had said buying a big stake in Chrysler would let Cerberus combine GMAC operations with Chrysler Financial. In December, Cerberus was part of a consortium of investors that said it would invest $3.4 billion in the struggling auto parts giant Delphi Corp. in exchange for new shares of Delphi stock as it emerged from Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/business/7495592.html	Cerberus to pay $7.4 billion for 80.1 percent of Chrysler | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Business Cerberus to pay $7.4 billion for 80.1 percent of Chrysler Story Published: May 14, 2007 at 9:03 AM PDT Story Updated: May 14, 2007 at 9:23 AM PDT FRANKFURT, Germany (AP) - German-based DaimlerChrysler said Monday it will sell almost all of money-losing Chrysler to a private equity firm for $7.4 billion, backing out of a troubled 1998 takeover aimed at creating a global automotive powerhouse. Eighty percent of Chrysler Group, burdened by high pension and health costs and declining market share in the United States, will be sold to Cerberus Capital Management LP. Cerberus is taking a huge risk by agreeing to take on billions of dollars in pension and retiree health care costs at Chrysler. Cerberus Chairman John Snow, a former U.S. treasury secretary, told a news conference in Germany that the New York-based private equity firm believes in Chrysler and wants to see the company recover. "We think at this particular point in Chrysler's history, there may be opportunities in the private world, the world of private investment, that create more room for growth and expansion, that allow management to focus with greater intensity on the day-to-day business of producing better cars," Snow said. DaimlerChrysler AG said Monday it will sell 80.1 percent of the money-losing Chrysler to Cerberus. It was a stunning reversal of the $36 billion takeover by Daimler-Benz AG in 1998 that was meant to be a blissful marriage between Mercedes and Jeep and Dodge brands. The move is a huge bet for Cerberus, which has agreed to take on billions of dollars in pension and retiree health care costs at Chrysler. Cerberus has steadily been building strength in the automobile business. It led a consortium that bought a majority stake last year in General Motors Acceptance Corp., the financial arm of GM, and plans to invest in ailing auto parts giant Delphi. The prospect of a sale to a private equity firm had worried unions in the United States and Canada because of the firms' tendency to slash costs and jobs. Daimler will retain 19.9 percent of Chrysler and continue to work with it on drive systems, purchasing, sales and financial services outside North America. But it was clear that DaimlerChrysler and its chief executive Dieter Zetsche, who tried to prop up sales in the U.S. with his "Dr. Z" television commercials, had lost confidence that a combined Chrysler and Daimler could be a worldwide automotive leader. "We determined that DaimlerChrysler, as currently structured, would not provide the best" framework, Zetsche told reporters in Stuttgart, adding that "at the same time, given my experience with and commitment to Chrysler, this was a difficult task for me personally." Shareholders reacted positively. DaimlerChrysler's U.S. shares rose $2.98, or 3.77 percent, to $82 in Monday morning trading. DaimlerChrysler said the deal is likely to be completed by the third quarter and that it would reduce its overall profit by as much as $5.4 billion for 2007. Snow said that under Chrysler's leadership, the company's quality and productivity have risen and it has a variety of new products that will be well-received in the marketplace. "We're going to support those initiatives and we're going to support your plans," he said. Shareholders must approve changing the German company's name to Daimler AG. A vote will likely be scheduled this fall, the company said. The German-American automaker said an affiliate of Cerberus will hold the majority of a new Chrysler Holding LLC, while DaimlerChrysler will keep a 19.9 percent stake. Private equity firms typically use money provided by pension funds and hedge funds and wealthy private investors to acquire public companies or parts of companies and take them private, often to reorganize and later sell at a profit. But Snow said Cerberus would focus on longer-term earnings. "We don't think about the next quarter. We don't think about what analysts have to say about us. We care very much about producing long-term results for investors," he said. The United Auto Workers' endorsement of the transaction was a shift from earlier this year, when UAW President Ron Gettelfinger warned that a private equity buyer would "strip and flip" the company by selling it off in pieces. Gettelfinger, speaking on WJR-AM in Detroit, said he made a last-minute pitch to keep Chrysler with Daimler over the weekend, but when that failed, he decided to embrace the Cerberus purchase. "We did make a last-ditch effort pitch this weekend in Stuttgart with Dr. Zetsche about maintaining the status quo. That appeared to be less and less an option. He made it unequivocally clear it was no longer an option. He spent an hour and a half taking us through the entire selection process," Gettelfinger said. "We made the pitch all the way home that we wanted the Chrysler Group to stay under the Daimler umbrella but it's not there. The decision has been made, we're supportive of it." "We're going to close that past chapter. We're going to move forward." Canadian Auto Workers President Buzz Hargrove said he was assured that the collective bargaining agreement with Chrysler would be honored and that no jobs would be eliminated. Analysts said last week that Magna International founder and Chairman Frank Stronach was the likely leading bidder for Chrysler. Billionaire investor Kirk Kerkorian, who tried to take control of Chrysler in the 1990s, also has said he would make a bid, but it was apparently spurned. Zetsche announced Feb. 14 that all options were open for Chrysler, which lost $1.5 billion last year and is undergoing a restructuring plan that will eventually shed 13,000 jobs. Snow said the deal was a sign of faith in Chrysler, an iconic American brand and third-largest U.S. carmaker behind General Motors Corp. and Ford Motor Co. Norris Freeman III, 33, of Detroit, a 12-year Chrysler employee who works the line at the Warren Truck Assembly Plant, was skeptical of the move. "I don't think Cerberus is going to do us any justice. I think Kirk Kerkorian had a better interest in us. I think Cerberus is in it just for the money," he said. Cerberus also has former Vice President Dan Quayle as an adviser. David W. Thursfield, who used to run Ford in Europe, is a senior member of the operations team in Cerberus' automotive and industrial practice. And Wolfgang Bernhard, former Chrysler chief operating officer, is a newcomer to Cerberus. Last year, GM sold a majority stake in its General Motors Acceptance Corp. financing arm to a consortium of investors led by Cerberus for about $14 billion. Analysts had said buying a big stake in Chrysler would let Cerberus combine GMAC operations with Chrysler Financial. In December, Cerberus was part of a consortium of investors that said it would invest $3.4 billion in the struggling auto parts giant Delphi Corp. in exchange for new shares of Delphi stock as it emerged from Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/business/7513202.html	Reuters agrees to $17.2 billion Thomson takeover offer | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Business Reuters agrees to $17.2 billion Thomson takeover offer Story Published: May 15, 2007 at 9:04 AM PDT Story Updated: May 15, 2007 at 9:04 AM PDT LONDON (AP) - Reuters agreed on Tuesday to a $17.2 billion takeover by Thomson that would vault the combined entity ahead of Bloomberg to become the world's largest financial data and news provider. The combined company will be headed by Tom Glocer, 47, who is now chief executive of Reuters, and he will be responsible for finding the $500 million in savings the companies are promising to deliver by the third year. Reuters trustees, who could have vetoed any takeover, endorsed the deal, which is still subject to approval by shareholders and regulators. "We believe that the formation of Thomson-Reuters marks a watershed in the global information business, and will underpin the strength, integrity and sustainability of Reuters as a global leader in news and financial information for many years to come," said Pehr Gyllenhammar, chairman of the trustees. Holders of each Reuters Group PLC share traded in London will be paid the equivalent of about $7 in cash and 0.16 shares of Thomson Corp.'s Toronto-listed stock. The value of the deal is calculated based on Thomson's closing share price of 48.46 Canadian dollars on the Toronto Stock Exchange on May 3, the day before the companies announced they were exploring a combination. Shareholders of Thomson, formally based in Toronto but with its operational head office in Stamford, Conn., would control more than three quarters of the shares in the new company, Thomson-Reuters PLC. Woodbridge, the Thomson family holding company which controls roughly 70 percent of Thomson, will own approximately 53 percent of the combined business. Other Thomson shareholders will have 23 percent and Reuters shareholders 24 percent, the companies said. Reuters and Thomson compete with Bloomberg LP, founded by New York Mayor Mike Bloomberg, in providing data terminals to the world's major banks and brokerages. Reuters was the market leader for years before steadily losing ground to Bloomberg. An April report from Inside Market Data Reference said Bloomberg has a 33 percent share of the market, with Reuters holding 23 percent and Thomson 11 percent. "For Thomson, it is a defining moment in our journey to become the information provider of choice for the world's business and professional markets," said Richard J. Harrington, Thomson's president and chief executive. Harrington, 60, will step down when the merger is completed. London-based Reuters was born in 1851 when Paul Julius Reuter started sending stock market quotations between London and Paris via the new Calais-Dover cable. Reuters shares rose 3.1 percent to 624.5 pence ($12.38) on the London Stock Exchange at midday. The merged companies will have a dual-listed structure. The renamed Thomson-Reuters will retain current listings on the Toronto Stock Exchange and on the New York Stock Exchange. It also will apply for its ordinary shares to be listed on the London Stock Exchange and intends to apply for its American Depositary Shares to be listed on Nasdaq. "The companies will be separate legal entities but will be managed and operated as if they were a single economic enterprise," the announcement said. "The boards of the two companies will be identical and the combined business will be managed by a single senior executive management team." The combined Thomson Financial unit and Reuters financial and media businesses will be called Reuters. Thomson's professional businesses - legal, tax and accounting, scientific and healthcare - will be branded as Thomson-Reuters Professional. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/business/7513202.html	Reuters agrees to $17.2 billion Thomson takeover offer | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Business Reuters agrees to $17.2 billion Thomson takeover offer Story Published: May 15, 2007 at 9:04 AM PDT Story Updated: May 15, 2007 at 9:04 AM PDT LONDON (AP) - Reuters agreed on Tuesday to a $17.2 billion takeover by Thomson that would vault the combined entity ahead of Bloomberg to become the world's largest financial data and news provider. The combined company will be headed by Tom Glocer, 47, who is now chief executive of Reuters, and he will be responsible for finding the $500 million in savings the companies are promising to deliver by the third year. Reuters trustees, who could have vetoed any takeover, endorsed the deal, which is still subject to approval by shareholders and regulators. "We believe that the formation of Thomson-Reuters marks a watershed in the global information business, and will underpin the strength, integrity and sustainability of Reuters as a global leader in news and financial information for many years to come," said Pehr Gyllenhammar, chairman of the trustees. Holders of each Reuters Group PLC share traded in London will be paid the equivalent of about $7 in cash and 0.16 shares of Thomson Corp.'s Toronto-listed stock. The value of the deal is calculated based on Thomson's closing share price of 48.46 Canadian dollars on the Toronto Stock Exchange on May 3, the day before the companies announced they were exploring a combination. Shareholders of Thomson, formally based in Toronto but with its operational head office in Stamford, Conn., would control more than three quarters of the shares in the new company, Thomson-Reuters PLC. Woodbridge, the Thomson family holding company which controls roughly 70 percent of Thomson, will own approximately 53 percent of the combined business. Other Thomson shareholders will have 23 percent and Reuters shareholders 24 percent, the companies said. Reuters and Thomson compete with Bloomberg LP, founded by New York Mayor Mike Bloomberg, in providing data terminals to the world's major banks and brokerages. Reuters was the market leader for years before steadily losing ground to Bloomberg. An April report from Inside Market Data Reference said Bloomberg has a 33 percent share of the market, with Reuters holding 23 percent and Thomson 11 percent. "For Thomson, it is a defining moment in our journey to become the information provider of choice for the world's business and professional markets," said Richard J. Harrington, Thomson's president and chief executive. Harrington, 60, will step down when the merger is completed. London-based Reuters was born in 1851 when Paul Julius Reuter started sending stock market quotations between London and Paris via the new Calais-Dover cable. Reuters shares rose 3.1 percent to 624.5 pence ($12.38) on the London Stock Exchange at midday. The merged companies will have a dual-listed structure. The renamed Thomson-Reuters will retain current listings on the Toronto Stock Exchange and on the New York Stock Exchange. It also will apply for its ordinary shares to be listed on the London Stock Exchange and intends to apply for its American Depositary Shares to be listed on Nasdaq. "The companies will be separate legal entities but will be managed and operated as if they were a single economic enterprise," the announcement said. "The boards of the two companies will be identical and the combined business will be managed by a single senior executive management team." The combined Thomson Financial unit and Reuters financial and media businesses will be called Reuters. Thomson's professional businesses - legal, tax and accounting, scientific and healthcare - will be branded as Thomson-Reuters Professional. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/business/7513157.html	IRS says record number of people e-filed their tax returns | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Business IRS says record number of people e-filed their tax returns Story Published: May 15, 2007 at 9:02 AM PDT Story Updated: May 15, 2007 at 9:02 AM PDT WASHINGTON (AP) - A record 77 million taxpayers have filed their tax returns electronically this year, the Internal Revenue Service said Tuesday. The IRS also said that as of May 4, the average refund this year was $2,255, up 2.5 percent over the same time last year. More than 59 million refunds were deposited directly into savings, checking and brokerage accounts, more than 61 percent of all refunds issued. This year the IRS permitted direct deposit of refunds into as many as three separate financial accounts. The IRS said those choosing direct deposit got refunds at least a week sooner than others. The agency said that as of May 4 it had received 128 million returns and processed 114 million. Of those, 76.8 million were filed electronically - almost 55 million by tax professionals and 22 million through home computers. Taxpayers e-filing from home were up 11 percent over the same time last year. Based on current trends, the agency expects about 58 percent of all returns to be e-filed this year. The IRS said 140 million people had visited the agency's Web site to receive help and information, up from 128 million at the same time in 2006. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/business/7513157.html	IRS says record number of people e-filed their tax returns | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Business IRS says record number of people e-filed their tax returns Story Published: May 15, 2007 at 9:02 AM PDT Story Updated: May 15, 2007 at 9:02 AM PDT WASHINGTON (AP) - A record 77 million taxpayers have filed their tax returns electronically this year, the Internal Revenue Service said Tuesday. The IRS also said that as of May 4, the average refund this year was $2,255, up 2.5 percent over the same time last year. More than 59 million refunds were deposited directly into savings, checking and brokerage accounts, more than 61 percent of all refunds issued. This year the IRS permitted direct deposit of refunds into as many as three separate financial accounts. The IRS said those choosing direct deposit got refunds at least a week sooner than others. The agency said that as of May 4 it had received 128 million returns and processed 114 million. Of those, 76.8 million were filed electronically - almost 55 million by tax professionals and 22 million through home computers. Taxpayers e-filing from home were up 11 percent over the same time last year. Based on current trends, the agency expects about 58 percent of all returns to be e-filed this year. The IRS said 140 million people had visited the agency's Web site to receive help and information, up from 128 million at the same time in 2006. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/business/7513257.html	Fed. chairman says new regulations should not stifle innovation | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Business Fed. chairman says new regulations should not stifle innovation Story Published: May 15, 2007 at 9:07 AM PDT Story Updated: May 15, 2007 at 9:07 AM PDT WASHINGTON (AP) - The best way to regulate a world of increasingly complex financial instruments is to pursue broad principles without stifling innovation, Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke said Tuesday. Bernanke said that in responding to the challenges of rapidly evolving financial markets, regulators need to keep in mind the economic advantages that hedge funds and investments such as credit derivatives provide by helping to diversify risks. "We should always keep in view the enormous economic benefits that flow from a healthy and innovative financial sector," he said in remarks prepared for a financial markets conference in Sea Island, Ga. In his speech, Bernanke specifically addressed the growth of credit derivatives, financial instruments that derive their value from the bond market. Billionaire investor Warren Buffett has warned of the risks of such investments, calling them "financial weapons of mass destruction." Recently, concerns have been raised about one segment of this market, investments backed by subprime mortgages, because of a sharp rise in mortgage defaults. Bernanke cautioned against over-regulation of specific problems, saying that it was important to allow financial markets the room to innovate. He made a similar argument in a speech last month concerning hedge funds, saying that a market-based approach was the best way to regulate the trillion-dollar hedge fund industry. "The increasing sophistication and depth of financial markets promote economic growth by allocating capital where it can be most productive," Bernanke said in the speech Tuesday, copies of which were distributed in Washington. "When proposing or implementing regulation, we must seek to preserve the benefits of financial innovation even as we address the risks that may accompany that innovation," he said. Bernanke did not specify any area where he thought increased regulation was necessary. Rather, he laid out certain principles that regulators should follow in considering new rules. "We should strive to implement a regulatory regime that is principles-based, risk-focused and consistently applied," he said. Bernanke's comments were delivered by satellite to the conference, which was sponsored by the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta. In his remarks, he reminded the group that at last year's conference he had cautioned against adoption of a proposal that would have sought to better regulate hedge funds by developing a database of the holdings of various hedge funds. He said he still held the view that creating such a database would be extremely difficult given how quickly hedge funds can change their holdings. He also said the effort by regulators to create such an information base would give investors in hedge funds a false sense of security that regulators had been able to reduce the risks they were facing. Bernanke is a member of the President's Working Group, formed after the 1987 stock market crash to provide recommendations on ways to improve market regulation. That group recently concluded that what the hedge fund industry needed was increased vigilance on the part of investors rather than new government rules. Critics, however, contend that large hedge fund failures, such as the collapse last fall of Amaranth Advisors, point to the need for tighter government regulations. In his speech, Bernanke said it was appropriate for the conference to have focused on hedge funds last year and to be examining credit derivatives this year. "The increasing prominence of hedge funds and the growth of the market for credit derivatives are both aspects of the remarkable wave of financial innovation that we have seen in recent years," he said. Bernanke said that it was important for the Fed and other regulators to resist the calls to develop rules that are too specific. "We should strive to develop common, principles-based policy responses that can be applied consistently across the financial sector to meet clearly defined objectives," he said. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/business/7513257.html	Fed. chairman says new regulations should not stifle innovation | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Business Fed. chairman says new regulations should not stifle innovation Story Published: May 15, 2007 at 9:07 AM PDT Story Updated: May 15, 2007 at 9:07 AM PDT WASHINGTON (AP) - The best way to regulate a world of increasingly complex financial instruments is to pursue broad principles without stifling innovation, Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke said Tuesday. Bernanke said that in responding to the challenges of rapidly evolving financial markets, regulators need to keep in mind the economic advantages that hedge funds and investments such as credit derivatives provide by helping to diversify risks. "We should always keep in view the enormous economic benefits that flow from a healthy and innovative financial sector," he said in remarks prepared for a financial markets conference in Sea Island, Ga. In his speech, Bernanke specifically addressed the growth of credit derivatives, financial instruments that derive their value from the bond market. Billionaire investor Warren Buffett has warned of the risks of such investments, calling them "financial weapons of mass destruction." Recently, concerns have been raised about one segment of this market, investments backed by subprime mortgages, because of a sharp rise in mortgage defaults. Bernanke cautioned against over-regulation of specific problems, saying that it was important to allow financial markets the room to innovate. He made a similar argument in a speech last month concerning hedge funds, saying that a market-based approach was the best way to regulate the trillion-dollar hedge fund industry. "The increasing sophistication and depth of financial markets promote economic growth by allocating capital where it can be most productive," Bernanke said in the speech Tuesday, copies of which were distributed in Washington. "When proposing or implementing regulation, we must seek to preserve the benefits of financial innovation even as we address the risks that may accompany that innovation," he said. Bernanke did not specify any area where he thought increased regulation was necessary. Rather, he laid out certain principles that regulators should follow in considering new rules. "We should strive to implement a regulatory regime that is principles-based, risk-focused and consistently applied," he said. Bernanke's comments were delivered by satellite to the conference, which was sponsored by the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta. In his remarks, he reminded the group that at last year's conference he had cautioned against adoption of a proposal that would have sought to better regulate hedge funds by developing a database of the holdings of various hedge funds. He said he still held the view that creating such a database would be extremely difficult given how quickly hedge funds can change their holdings. He also said the effort by regulators to create such an information base would give investors in hedge funds a false sense of security that regulators had been able to reduce the risks they were facing. Bernanke is a member of the President's Working Group, formed after the 1987 stock market crash to provide recommendations on ways to improve market regulation. That group recently concluded that what the hedge fund industry needed was increased vigilance on the part of investors rather than new government rules. Critics, however, contend that large hedge fund failures, such as the collapse last fall of Amaranth Advisors, point to the need for tighter government regulations. In his speech, Bernanke said it was appropriate for the conference to have focused on hedge funds last year and to be examining credit derivatives this year. "The increasing prominence of hedge funds and the growth of the market for credit derivatives are both aspects of the remarkable wave of financial innovation that we have seen in recent years," he said. Bernanke said that it was important for the Fed and other regulators to resist the calls to develop rules that are too specific. "We should strive to develop common, principles-based policy responses that can be applied consistently across the financial sector to meet clearly defined objectives," he said. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/business/7512942.html	Boeing 787 taking shape as wings arrive in Everett | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Business Boeing 787 taking shape as wings arrive in Everett The massive wings for the first Boeing 787 "Dreamliner" are unloaded from a super freighter "Dreamlifter" aircraft after a flight from Japan. Story Published: May 15, 2007 at 8:46 AM PDT Story Updated: May 15, 2007 at 10:18 AM PDT EVERETT, Wash. (AP) - The wings for the first Boeing 787 arrived on a super-freighter flight from Japan early Tuesday morning at the factory in Everett. The factory needs one more major component -- a central fuselage section from Charleston, South Carolina. Then workers can assemble the plane that is scheduled to roll out July 8th. The plane is scheduled to make its first flight in August and be delivered in May of next year. Japanese industries are building more than a third of the 787. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/business/7512942.html	Boeing 787 taking shape as wings arrive in Everett | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Business Boeing 787 taking shape as wings arrive in Everett The massive wings for the first Boeing 787 "Dreamliner" are unloaded from a super freighter "Dreamlifter" aircraft after a flight from Japan. Story Published: May 15, 2007 at 8:46 AM PDT Story Updated: May 15, 2007 at 10:18 AM PDT EVERETT, Wash. (AP) - The wings for the first Boeing 787 arrived on a super-freighter flight from Japan early Tuesday morning at the factory in Everett. The factory needs one more major component -- a central fuselage section from Charleston, South Carolina. Then workers can assemble the plane that is scheduled to roll out July 8th. The plane is scheduled to make its first flight in August and be delivered in May of next year. Japanese industries are building more than a third of the 787. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/business	KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Business State jobless rate dips to record low 4.4 percent in April Washington's unemployment rate dipped to a record 4.4 percent last month, the lowest since comparable record-keeping more than three decades ago, the state Employment Security Department announced Tuesday. Fed. chairman says new regulations should not stifle innovation The best way to regulate a world of increasingly complex financial instruments is to pursue broad principles without stifling innovation, Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke said Tuesday. Consumer inflation moderates slightly in April despite surging gasoline prices Consumer prices rose by 0.4 percent last month following a 0.6 percent jump in March, the Labor Department reported Tuesday. The April increase was slightly lower than expected although gasoline pump prices jumped by 4.7 percent after an even bigger 10.6 percent March advance. Reuters agrees to $17.2 billion Thomson takeover offer IRS says record number of people e-filed their tax returns Wal-Mart first-quarter earnings rise 8 percent Boeing 787 taking shape as wings arrive in Everett Cerberus to pay $7.4 billion for 80.1 percent of Chrysler Younger adults lead way as growing numbers of households lack landline phones Supreme Court orders review of $82.6 million award in Ford Explorer rollover Wal-Mart to display Skype phone gear Merck selling generics unit for $6.6B Splenda settles with Equal over claims Russia strikes natural gas pipeline deal Consumer confidence stuck in rut amid worries about gas prices Guilty pleas entered in giant Wall Street insider-trading ring Alabama chosen by ThyssenKrupp for $4.2 billion steel plant Hershey cuts 2007 earnings estimate Little-known company purchases remaining Yukos assets Rates on 30-year mortgages edge lower for third time in last 4 weeks Northwest cherry growers expect another large harvest EADS swings to 1st-quarter loss, dragged down by Airbus Retailers post weak April sales JetBlue names COO Barger to replace founder Neeleman as CEO Viacom's first-quarter earnings down 36 percent Clearwire loss widens in first quarter since IPO Senate committee approves fuel economy increase to 35 mpg Microsoft signs Web video deals with Volvo, Chivas Brothers Cisco shares fall despite big third-quarter profit Grapeseed oil company uses recycled product as biofuel for its car Grasso wins round in NYSE pay fight Amazon settles patent suits with IBM 'Cocaine' drink is pulled from shelves Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/business	KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Business State jobless rate dips to record low 4.4 percent in April Washington's unemployment rate dipped to a record 4.4 percent last month, the lowest since comparable record-keeping more than three decades ago, the state Employment Security Department announced Tuesday. Fed. chairman says new regulations should not stifle innovation The best way to regulate a world of increasingly complex financial instruments is to pursue broad principles without stifling innovation, Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke said Tuesday. Consumer inflation moderates slightly in April despite surging gasoline prices Consumer prices rose by 0.4 percent last month following a 0.6 percent jump in March, the Labor Department reported Tuesday. The April increase was slightly lower than expected although gasoline pump prices jumped by 4.7 percent after an even bigger 10.6 percent March advance. Reuters agrees to $17.2 billion Thomson takeover offer IRS says record number of people e-filed their tax returns Wal-Mart first-quarter earnings rise 8 percent Boeing 787 taking shape as wings arrive in Everett Cerberus to pay $7.4 billion for 80.1 percent of Chrysler Younger adults lead way as growing numbers of households lack landline phones Supreme Court orders review of $82.6 million award in Ford Explorer rollover Wal-Mart to display Skype phone gear Merck selling generics unit for $6.6B Splenda settles with Equal over claims Russia strikes natural gas pipeline deal Consumer confidence stuck in rut amid worries about gas prices Guilty pleas entered in giant Wall Street insider-trading ring Alabama chosen by ThyssenKrupp for $4.2 billion steel plant Hershey cuts 2007 earnings estimate Little-known company purchases remaining Yukos assets Rates on 30-year mortgages edge lower for third time in last 4 weeks Northwest cherry growers expect another large harvest EADS swings to 1st-quarter loss, dragged down by Airbus Retailers post weak April sales JetBlue names COO Barger to replace founder Neeleman as CEO Viacom's first-quarter earnings down 36 percent Clearwire loss widens in first quarter since IPO Senate committee approves fuel economy increase to 35 mpg Microsoft signs Web video deals with Volvo, Chivas Brothers Cisco shares fall despite big third-quarter profit Grapeseed oil company uses recycled product as biofuel for its car Grasso wins round in NYSE pay fight Amazon settles patent suits with IBM 'Cocaine' drink is pulled from shelves Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/business/7495542.html	Younger adults lead way as growing numbers of households lack landline phones | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Business Younger adults lead way as growing numbers of households lack landline phones Story Published: May 14, 2007 at 9:00 AM PDT Story Updated: May 14, 2007 at 9:01 AM PDT WASHINGTON (AP) - More than a quarter of young adults have only cell phones, making them the leading edge of a strengthening move away from traditional landline telephones, a federal survey showed Monday. Overall, the portion of adults with only cell phones grew by more than 2 percentage points in the latter half of last year to nearly 12 percent, an expansion rate that began in the first part of 2006 and was double earlier rates of growth. One in four people aged 18 to 24 had only cell phones, as did 29 percent of those aged 25 to 29, the study showed. The percentages declined with age after that, with 2 percent of those 65 or over having only cell phones. The trend away from landline phones affects the telephone industry, 911 emergency service providers, and government and private polling organizations, which rely heavily on random calls to households with wired telephones. "All those wireless adults are missed" in those marketing and opinion surveys, said Stephen Blumberg, senior scientist at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and an author of the report. That's a potential problem because people with only cell phones tend to be disproportionately young and have lower incomes. Studies have so far concluded that cell-phone-only users are not a large or diverse enough group to affect the accuracy of broad polls that omit them. The data, from the CDC's National Health Interview Survey, also found: -15 percent of Hispanic adults, 13 percent of black adults, 12 percent of Asians and 11 percent of whites had only cell phones; -22 percent of the poorest adults had only cell phones, double the rate for those who are not poor; -13 percent of males and 11 percent of females had cell phones only; -Nearly 2 percent of adults had no phone at all. The figures were based on interviews with people in 13,056 households from June through December last year. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/business/7495542.html	Younger adults lead way as growing numbers of households lack landline phones | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Business Younger adults lead way as growing numbers of households lack landline phones Story Published: May 14, 2007 at 9:00 AM PDT Story Updated: May 14, 2007 at 9:01 AM PDT WASHINGTON (AP) - More than a quarter of young adults have only cell phones, making them the leading edge of a strengthening move away from traditional landline telephones, a federal survey showed Monday. Overall, the portion of adults with only cell phones grew by more than 2 percentage points in the latter half of last year to nearly 12 percent, an expansion rate that began in the first part of 2006 and was double earlier rates of growth. One in four people aged 18 to 24 had only cell phones, as did 29 percent of those aged 25 to 29, the study showed. The percentages declined with age after that, with 2 percent of those 65 or over having only cell phones. The trend away from landline phones affects the telephone industry, 911 emergency service providers, and government and private polling organizations, which rely heavily on random calls to households with wired telephones. "All those wireless adults are missed" in those marketing and opinion surveys, said Stephen Blumberg, senior scientist at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and an author of the report. That's a potential problem because people with only cell phones tend to be disproportionately young and have lower incomes. Studies have so far concluded that cell-phone-only users are not a large or diverse enough group to affect the accuracy of broad polls that omit them. The data, from the CDC's National Health Interview Survey, also found: -15 percent of Hispanic adults, 13 percent of black adults, 12 percent of Asians and 11 percent of whites had only cell phones; -22 percent of the poorest adults had only cell phones, double the rate for those who are not poor; -13 percent of males and 11 percent of females had cell phones only; -Nearly 2 percent of adults had no phone at all. The figures were based on interviews with people in 13,056 households from June through December last year. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/business/7513242.html	Consumer inflation moderates slightly in April despite surging gasoline prices | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Business Consumer inflation moderates slightly in April despite surging gasoline prices Story Published: May 15, 2007 at 9:06 AM PDT Story Updated: May 15, 2007 at 9:06 AM PDT WASHINGTON (AP) - Consumer inflation eased a bit in April even though gasoline prices surged for a second straight month. Consumer prices rose by 0.4 percent last month following a 0.6 percent jump in March, the Labor Department reported Tuesday. The April increase was slightly lower than expected although gasoline pump prices jumped by 4.7 percent after an even bigger 10.6 percent March advance. Core inflation, which excludes volatile food and energy costs, edged up just 0.2 percent as falling prices for clothing, airline tickets and tobacco products helped restrain underlying inflation. The nationwide average price for gasoline has surged to a record $3.07 per gallon, according to the latest Lundberg Survey, surpassing the old mark of $3.03 per gallon set last August. The big price spike has been blamed on unexpected refinery shut downs that have crimped supplies. Analysts are warning that consumers can expect further price increases. Through the first four months of this year, consumer inflation is rising at an annual rate of 4.8 percent, almost double the 2.5 percent increase for all of 2006. The acceleration has occurred in large part because of higher costs for food and energy. However, excluding energy and food, core inflation is up at an annual rate of just 2.2 percent through April, an improvement from the 2.6 percent rise in core prices for all of 2006. That improvement is certain to be welcomed at the Federal Reserve, where policymakers are hoping that their campaign to restrain inflationary pressures is beginning to show results. After pushing rates up over a two-year period, the Fed has left rates unchanged for the past 11 months, watching to see whether the slowing economy will reduce price pressures. Energy prices have been rising at an annual rate of 25.3 percent so far this year compared with a gain of 2.9 percent for all of 2006, when a big spike in energy costs in the first part of the year was partially reversed in the fall and early winter. Food costs, which have been pushed higher by the increased demand for corn to use in ethanol production, were up at an annual rate of 6.7 percent in the first four months of this year compared with a 2.1 percent rise for all of 2006. For April, food costs rose by 0.4 percent with big increases for beef, poultry and vegetables offsetting declines in the price of pork and fruits. The 0.2 percent rise in prices excluding food and energy followed a 0.1 percent increase in March. Over the past 12 months, core prices are up 2.3 percent, still above the Fed's preferred comfort zone of 1 percent to 2 percent. Many economists believe the Fed will keep rates unchanged until core inflation falls further. They believe the slowing economy will bring about lower inflation but not without a rise in unemployment, which they expect will climb from the current 4.5 percent to 5 percent by the end of the year. The faster pace of inflation so far this year is being felt in workers' paychecks. The Labor Department said that average weekly earnings for non-supervisory workers fell by 0.5 percent in April, compared to March, after adjusting for inflation. Inflation-adjusted wages were up 0.9 percent in April compared with 12 months ago, the smallest year-over-year gain in eight months. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/business/7513242.html	Consumer inflation moderates slightly in April despite surging gasoline prices | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Business Consumer inflation moderates slightly in April despite surging gasoline prices Story Published: May 15, 2007 at 9:06 AM PDT Story Updated: May 15, 2007 at 9:06 AM PDT WASHINGTON (AP) - Consumer inflation eased a bit in April even though gasoline prices surged for a second straight month. Consumer prices rose by 0.4 percent last month following a 0.6 percent jump in March, the Labor Department reported Tuesday. The April increase was slightly lower than expected although gasoline pump prices jumped by 4.7 percent after an even bigger 10.6 percent March advance. Core inflation, which excludes volatile food and energy costs, edged up just 0.2 percent as falling prices for clothing, airline tickets and tobacco products helped restrain underlying inflation. The nationwide average price for gasoline has surged to a record $3.07 per gallon, according to the latest Lundberg Survey, surpassing the old mark of $3.03 per gallon set last August. The big price spike has been blamed on unexpected refinery shut downs that have crimped supplies. Analysts are warning that consumers can expect further price increases. Through the first four months of this year, consumer inflation is rising at an annual rate of 4.8 percent, almost double the 2.5 percent increase for all of 2006. The acceleration has occurred in large part because of higher costs for food and energy. However, excluding energy and food, core inflation is up at an annual rate of just 2.2 percent through April, an improvement from the 2.6 percent rise in core prices for all of 2006. That improvement is certain to be welcomed at the Federal Reserve, where policymakers are hoping that their campaign to restrain inflationary pressures is beginning to show results. After pushing rates up over a two-year period, the Fed has left rates unchanged for the past 11 months, watching to see whether the slowing economy will reduce price pressures. Energy prices have been rising at an annual rate of 25.3 percent so far this year compared with a gain of 2.9 percent for all of 2006, when a big spike in energy costs in the first part of the year was partially reversed in the fall and early winter. Food costs, which have been pushed higher by the increased demand for corn to use in ethanol production, were up at an annual rate of 6.7 percent in the first four months of this year compared with a 2.1 percent rise for all of 2006. For April, food costs rose by 0.4 percent with big increases for beef, poultry and vegetables offsetting declines in the price of pork and fruits. The 0.2 percent rise in prices excluding food and energy followed a 0.1 percent increase in March. Over the past 12 months, core prices are up 2.3 percent, still above the Fed's preferred comfort zone of 1 percent to 2 percent. Many economists believe the Fed will keep rates unchanged until core inflation falls further. They believe the slowing economy will bring about lower inflation but not without a rise in unemployment, which they expect will climb from the current 4.5 percent to 5 percent by the end of the year. The faster pace of inflation so far this year is being felt in workers' paychecks. The Labor Department said that average weekly earnings for non-supervisory workers fell by 0.5 percent in April, compared to March, after adjusting for inflation. Inflation-adjusted wages were up 0.9 percent in April compared with 12 months ago, the smallest year-over-year gain in eight months. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/business/7513132.html	Wal-Mart first-quarter earnings rise 8 percent | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Business Wal-Mart first-quarter earnings rise 8 percent Story Published: May 15, 2007 at 9:00 AM PDT Story Updated: May 15, 2007 at 9:00 AM PDT BENTONVILLE, Ark. (AP) - Wal-Mart Stores Inc. warned Tuesday that its profits in the current quarter could fall short of expectations after reporting an 8 percent gain in first-quarter earnings amid cost-cutting and strength in its warehouse clubs and international businesses. The company continued to struggle with its namesake discount business. The tepid outlook from Wal-Mart - considered a barometer for the retail industry - could serve as a warning bell that rising gasoline prices and a weakening housing market will continue to eat away at consumer spending in the coming months. The announcement came as Home Depot Inc. reported a 29.5 percent drop in first-quarter profits on a slight increase in sales. For its first quarter, Wal-Mart said it earned $2.83 billion, or 68 cents per share, compared with $2.62 billion, or 64 cents per share, in the previous year quarter. Wal-Mart had revenue of $86.41 billion in the three months ending April 30, up from $79.67 billion in the year prior. Analysts surveyed by Thomson Financial expected first-quarter earnings per share of 68 cents and revenues of $86.9 billion. Wal-Mart's shares fell 14 cents to $47.70 in early trading Tuesday. "Quite honestly, we're not satisfied with our overall performance, Wal-Mart President and Chief Executive Lee Scott said during a pre-recorded conference call. Same-store sales rose 0.6 percent in the first quarter at Wal-Mart's U.S. stores, with its Sam's Club warehouse stores accounting for all of the gain. Wal-Mart's namesake stores slipped 0.1 percent in the quarter, while Sam's Club warehouse stores rose 4.7 percent. Same-store sales ,or sales at stores opened at least a year, is a key gauge of retailer health because it measures growth at established locations open at least a year rather than at newly opened ones. For the current quarter, Wal-Mart projected same-store sales to be up a modest 1 percent to 2 percent. Scott said the company can perform better. "You will see us be more committed than ever to price leadership," Scott said. Sales and profits for the quarter were "not where we would have expected to be nor where we believe we should be." Bright spots include Sam's Club, which now has seven consecutive quarters in which profits grew faster than sales, Scott said. Wal-Mart's international division, the fastest growing part of the company, accounted for 23 percent of sales for the quarter. The company reacted to inflation in Mexico by lowering prices of tortillas and other staples, which Scott said was an investment in customer loyalty. In Great Britain, Scott said Wal-Mart's Asda chain added 1.5 million customers since mid-2005, half in stores that were already open. Wal-Mart said it expects second-quarter profits to be within a range of 75 cents to 79 cents per share. Analysts surveyed by Thomson Financial expect a consensus 79 cents per share for the period. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/business/7513132.html	Wal-Mart first-quarter earnings rise 8 percent | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Business Wal-Mart first-quarter earnings rise 8 percent Story Published: May 15, 2007 at 9:00 AM PDT Story Updated: May 15, 2007 at 9:00 AM PDT BENTONVILLE, Ark. (AP) - Wal-Mart Stores Inc. warned Tuesday that its profits in the current quarter could fall short of expectations after reporting an 8 percent gain in first-quarter earnings amid cost-cutting and strength in its warehouse clubs and international businesses. The company continued to struggle with its namesake discount business. The tepid outlook from Wal-Mart - considered a barometer for the retail industry - could serve as a warning bell that rising gasoline prices and a weakening housing market will continue to eat away at consumer spending in the coming months. The announcement came as Home Depot Inc. reported a 29.5 percent drop in first-quarter profits on a slight increase in sales. For its first quarter, Wal-Mart said it earned $2.83 billion, or 68 cents per share, compared with $2.62 billion, or 64 cents per share, in the previous year quarter. Wal-Mart had revenue of $86.41 billion in the three months ending April 30, up from $79.67 billion in the year prior. Analysts surveyed by Thomson Financial expected first-quarter earnings per share of 68 cents and revenues of $86.9 billion. Wal-Mart's shares fell 14 cents to $47.70 in early trading Tuesday. "Quite honestly, we're not satisfied with our overall performance, Wal-Mart President and Chief Executive Lee Scott said during a pre-recorded conference call. Same-store sales rose 0.6 percent in the first quarter at Wal-Mart's U.S. stores, with its Sam's Club warehouse stores accounting for all of the gain. Wal-Mart's namesake stores slipped 0.1 percent in the quarter, while Sam's Club warehouse stores rose 4.7 percent. Same-store sales ,or sales at stores opened at least a year, is a key gauge of retailer health because it measures growth at established locations open at least a year rather than at newly opened ones. For the current quarter, Wal-Mart projected same-store sales to be up a modest 1 percent to 2 percent. Scott said the company can perform better. "You will see us be more committed than ever to price leadership," Scott said. Sales and profits for the quarter were "not where we would have expected to be nor where we believe we should be." Bright spots include Sam's Club, which now has seven consecutive quarters in which profits grew faster than sales, Scott said. Wal-Mart's international division, the fastest growing part of the company, accounted for 23 percent of sales for the quarter. The company reacted to inflation in Mexico by lowering prices of tortillas and other staples, which Scott said was an investment in customer loyalty. In Great Britain, Scott said Wal-Mart's Asda chain added 1.5 million customers since mid-2005, half in stores that were already open. Wal-Mart said it expects second-quarter profits to be within a range of 75 cents to 79 cents per share. Analysts surveyed by Thomson Financial expect a consensus 79 cents per share for the period. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/business/7495422.html	Supreme Court orders review of $82.6 million award in Ford Explorer rollover | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Business Supreme Court orders review of $82.6 million award in Ford Explorer rollover Story Published: May 14, 2007 at 8:56 AM PDT Story Updated: May 14, 2007 at 8:56 AM PDT WASHINGTON (AP) - The Supreme Court ordered a state appeals court Monday to review a decision giving $82.6 million to a woman who was paralyzed after her Ford Explorer rolled over. The justices want a California appeals court to determine if its ruling is in line with the Supreme Court decision overturning a $79.5 punitive damages award in a tobacco case earlier this year. The court said then that a jury may punish a defendant only for the harm done to the person who is suing, not to others whose cases were not before it. Benetta Buell-Wilson, 51, was driving on an interstate east of San Diego in January 2002 when she swerved to avoid a metal object and lost control of her 1997 Explorer, which rolled 4 1/2 times. The mother of two was paralyzed from the waist down when the roof collapsed on her neck, severing her spine. In June 2004 a San Diego jury found that her Explorer was defective because of instability and a weak roof. A jury initially awarded $369 million, including $246 million in punitive damages. It was the first damage award against the Ford Motor Company involving a rollover of an Explorer and one of the biggest personal-injury awards ever against an automaker. Courts twice cut the size of the award. The $82.6 million approved by a California state appeals court now includes punitive damages of $55 million. Ford's legal team, led by former Solicitor General Theodore Olson, asked the court to take the case because it said Ford was being punished even though the design of the vehicle met federal safety standards. The case is Ford Motor Company v. Buell-Wilson, 06-1068. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/business/7495422.html	Supreme Court orders review of $82.6 million award in Ford Explorer rollover | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Business Supreme Court orders review of $82.6 million award in Ford Explorer rollover Story Published: May 14, 2007 at 8:56 AM PDT Story Updated: May 14, 2007 at 8:56 AM PDT WASHINGTON (AP) - The Supreme Court ordered a state appeals court Monday to review a decision giving $82.6 million to a woman who was paralyzed after her Ford Explorer rolled over. The justices want a California appeals court to determine if its ruling is in line with the Supreme Court decision overturning a $79.5 punitive damages award in a tobacco case earlier this year. The court said then that a jury may punish a defendant only for the harm done to the person who is suing, not to others whose cases were not before it. Benetta Buell-Wilson, 51, was driving on an interstate east of San Diego in January 2002 when she swerved to avoid a metal object and lost control of her 1997 Explorer, which rolled 4 1/2 times. The mother of two was paralyzed from the waist down when the roof collapsed on her neck, severing her spine. In June 2004 a San Diego jury found that her Explorer was defective because of instability and a weak roof. A jury initially awarded $369 million, including $246 million in punitive damages. It was the first damage award against the Ford Motor Company involving a rollover of an Explorer and one of the biggest personal-injury awards ever against an automaker. Courts twice cut the size of the award. The $82.6 million approved by a California state appeals court now includes punitive damages of $55 million. Ford's legal team, led by former Solicitor General Theodore Olson, asked the court to take the case because it said Ford was being punished even though the design of the vehicle met federal safety standards. The case is Ford Motor Company v. Buell-Wilson, 06-1068. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/business/7515357.html	State jobless rate dips to record low 4.4 percent in April | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Business State jobless rate dips to record low 4.4 percent in April Story Published: May 15, 2007 at 11:13 AM PDT Story Updated: May 15, 2007 at 12:24 PM PDT OLYMPIA, Wash. (AP) - Washington's unemployment rate dipped to a record 4.4 percent last month, the lowest since comparable record-keeping more than three decades ago, the state Employment Security Department announced Tuesday. The seasonally adjusted rate was an improvement from the previous month's record low of 4.6 percent. In a prepared statement, Gov. Chris Gregoire said it was "even further proof that our state economy is one of the strongest and fastest-growing in the nation." Economists typically define anything below 5 percent as full employment. The state's employers added about 2,900 net new jobs last month, with the largest growth in professional and business services, with 2,100 new jobs. Construction saw an increase of 900, and other groups, like membership organizations, grew by 500. Manufacturing was down by 900 jobs, financial activities decreased by 100, and government lost 100. More than 64,400 net new jobs were created in Washington from April 2006 to April 2007. Nonfarm jobs increased by 2.3 percent, compared to a national rate of 1.4 percent. The state estimates that about 145,400 people are still unemployed. The national jobless rate is 4.5 percent, a slight increase over March's 4.4 percent and below the 4.7 percent of one year ago. One year ago, Washington's rate was 4.9 percent. Unemployment rates, not seasonally adjusted, in metropolitan areas around the state: Bellingham, 4 percent; Bremerton, 4.2; Longview, 5.9; Mount Vernon-Anacortes, 4.6; Olympia, 4.2; Seattle-Bellevue-Everett, 3.6; Spokane, 4.3; Tacoma, 4.7; Tri-Cities, 5.1; Wenatchee, 5.1; and Yakima, 6.1. These labor market areas also reported: Aberdeen, 7 percent; Centralia, 6.8; Ellensburg, 4.4; Moses Lake, 5.8; Oak Harbor, 4.8; Port Angeles, 5.3; Pullman, 3.4; Shelton, 5.6; and Walla Walla, 4.7. Unemployment rates in these counties were: Adams, 5.1 percent; Asotin, 4.6; Benton, 4.6; Chelan, 5.2; Clark, 5; Columbia, 6.4; Douglas, 4.7; Ferry, 9.2; Franklin, 6.6; Garfield, 4.2; Jefferson, 4.6; King, 3.5; Klickitat, 6.9; Lincoln, 5.1; Okanogan, 6.7; Pacific, 6.6; Pend Oreille, 7; San Juan, 3.3; Skamania, 5.6; Snohomish, 3.8; Stevens, 7.3; and Wahkiakum, 6.5. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/business/7515357.html	State jobless rate dips to record low 4.4 percent in April | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Business State jobless rate dips to record low 4.4 percent in April Story Published: May 15, 2007 at 11:13 AM PDT Story Updated: May 15, 2007 at 12:24 PM PDT OLYMPIA, Wash. (AP) - Washington's unemployment rate dipped to a record 4.4 percent last month, the lowest since comparable record-keeping more than three decades ago, the state Employment Security Department announced Tuesday. The seasonally adjusted rate was an improvement from the previous month's record low of 4.6 percent. In a prepared statement, Gov. Chris Gregoire said it was "even further proof that our state economy is one of the strongest and fastest-growing in the nation." Economists typically define anything below 5 percent as full employment. The state's employers added about 2,900 net new jobs last month, with the largest growth in professional and business services, with 2,100 new jobs. Construction saw an increase of 900, and other groups, like membership organizations, grew by 500. Manufacturing was down by 900 jobs, financial activities decreased by 100, and government lost 100. More than 64,400 net new jobs were created in Washington from April 2006 to April 2007. Nonfarm jobs increased by 2.3 percent, compared to a national rate of 1.4 percent. The state estimates that about 145,400 people are still unemployed. The national jobless rate is 4.5 percent, a slight increase over March's 4.4 percent and below the 4.7 percent of one year ago. One year ago, Washington's rate was 4.9 percent. Unemployment rates, not seasonally adjusted, in metropolitan areas around the state: Bellingham, 4 percent; Bremerton, 4.2; Longview, 5.9; Mount Vernon-Anacortes, 4.6; Olympia, 4.2; Seattle-Bellevue-Everett, 3.6; Spokane, 4.3; Tacoma, 4.7; Tri-Cities, 5.1; Wenatchee, 5.1; and Yakima, 6.1. These labor market areas also reported: Aberdeen, 7 percent; Centralia, 6.8; Ellensburg, 4.4; Moses Lake, 5.8; Oak Harbor, 4.8; Port Angeles, 5.3; Pullman, 3.4; Shelton, 5.6; and Walla Walla, 4.7. Unemployment rates in these counties were: Adams, 5.1 percent; Asotin, 4.6; Benton, 4.6; Chelan, 5.2; Clark, 5; Columbia, 6.4; Douglas, 4.7; Ferry, 9.2; Franklin, 6.6; Garfield, 4.2; Jefferson, 4.6; King, 3.5; Klickitat, 6.9; Lincoln, 5.1; Okanogan, 6.7; Pacific, 6.6; Pend Oreille, 7; San Juan, 3.3; Skamania, 5.6; Snohomish, 3.8; Stevens, 7.3; and Wahkiakum, 6.5. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/business/7495592.html	Cerberus to pay $7.4 billion for 80.1 percent of Chrysler | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Business Cerberus to pay $7.4 billion for 80.1 percent of Chrysler Story Published: May 14, 2007 at 9:03 AM PDT Story Updated: May 14, 2007 at 9:23 AM PDT FRANKFURT, Germany (AP) - German-based DaimlerChrysler said Monday it will sell almost all of money-losing Chrysler to a private equity firm for $7.4 billion, backing out of a troubled 1998 takeover aimed at creating a global automotive powerhouse. Eighty percent of Chrysler Group, burdened by high pension and health costs and declining market share in the United States, will be sold to Cerberus Capital Management LP. Cerberus is taking a huge risk by agreeing to take on billions of dollars in pension and retiree health care costs at Chrysler. Cerberus Chairman John Snow, a former U.S. treasury secretary, told a news conference in Germany that the New York-based private equity firm believes in Chrysler and wants to see the company recover. "We think at this particular point in Chrysler's history, there may be opportunities in the private world, the world of private investment, that create more room for growth and expansion, that allow management to focus with greater intensity on the day-to-day business of producing better cars," Snow said. DaimlerChrysler AG said Monday it will sell 80.1 percent of the money-losing Chrysler to Cerberus. It was a stunning reversal of the $36 billion takeover by Daimler-Benz AG in 1998 that was meant to be a blissful marriage between Mercedes and Jeep and Dodge brands. The move is a huge bet for Cerberus, which has agreed to take on billions of dollars in pension and retiree health care costs at Chrysler. Cerberus has steadily been building strength in the automobile business. It led a consortium that bought a majority stake last year in General Motors Acceptance Corp., the financial arm of GM, and plans to invest in ailing auto parts giant Delphi. The prospect of a sale to a private equity firm had worried unions in the United States and Canada because of the firms' tendency to slash costs and jobs. Daimler will retain 19.9 percent of Chrysler and continue to work with it on drive systems, purchasing, sales and financial services outside North America. But it was clear that DaimlerChrysler and its chief executive Dieter Zetsche, who tried to prop up sales in the U.S. with his "Dr. Z" television commercials, had lost confidence that a combined Chrysler and Daimler could be a worldwide automotive leader. "We determined that DaimlerChrysler, as currently structured, would not provide the best" framework, Zetsche told reporters in Stuttgart, adding that "at the same time, given my experience with and commitment to Chrysler, this was a difficult task for me personally." Shareholders reacted positively. DaimlerChrysler's U.S. shares rose $2.98, or 3.77 percent, to $82 in Monday morning trading. DaimlerChrysler said the deal is likely to be completed by the third quarter and that it would reduce its overall profit by as much as $5.4 billion for 2007. Snow said that under Chrysler's leadership, the company's quality and productivity have risen and it has a variety of new products that will be well-received in the marketplace. "We're going to support those initiatives and we're going to support your plans," he said. Shareholders must approve changing the German company's name to Daimler AG. A vote will likely be scheduled this fall, the company said. The German-American automaker said an affiliate of Cerberus will hold the majority of a new Chrysler Holding LLC, while DaimlerChrysler will keep a 19.9 percent stake. Private equity firms typically use money provided by pension funds and hedge funds and wealthy private investors to acquire public companies or parts of companies and take them private, often to reorganize and later sell at a profit. But Snow said Cerberus would focus on longer-term earnings. "We don't think about the next quarter. We don't think about what analysts have to say about us. We care very much about producing long-term results for investors," he said. The United Auto Workers' endorsement of the transaction was a shift from earlier this year, when UAW President Ron Gettelfinger warned that a private equity buyer would "strip and flip" the company by selling it off in pieces. Gettelfinger, speaking on WJR-AM in Detroit, said he made a last-minute pitch to keep Chrysler with Daimler over the weekend, but when that failed, he decided to embrace the Cerberus purchase. "We did make a last-ditch effort pitch this weekend in Stuttgart with Dr. Zetsche about maintaining the status quo. That appeared to be less and less an option. He made it unequivocally clear it was no longer an option. He spent an hour and a half taking us through the entire selection process," Gettelfinger said. "We made the pitch all the way home that we wanted the Chrysler Group to stay under the Daimler umbrella but it's not there. The decision has been made, we're supportive of it." "We're going to close that past chapter. We're going to move forward." Canadian Auto Workers President Buzz Hargrove said he was assured that the collective bargaining agreement with Chrysler would be honored and that no jobs would be eliminated. Analysts said last week that Magna International founder and Chairman Frank Stronach was the likely leading bidder for Chrysler. Billionaire investor Kirk Kerkorian, who tried to take control of Chrysler in the 1990s, also has said he would make a bid, but it was apparently spurned. Zetsche announced Feb. 14 that all options were open for Chrysler, which lost $1.5 billion last year and is undergoing a restructuring plan that will eventually shed 13,000 jobs. Snow said the deal was a sign of faith in Chrysler, an iconic American brand and third-largest U.S. carmaker behind General Motors Corp. and Ford Motor Co. Norris Freeman III, 33, of Detroit, a 12-year Chrysler employee who works the line at the Warren Truck Assembly Plant, was skeptical of the move. "I don't think Cerberus is going to do us any justice. I think Kirk Kerkorian had a better interest in us. I think Cerberus is in it just for the money," he said. Cerberus also has former Vice President Dan Quayle as an adviser. David W. Thursfield, who used to run Ford in Europe, is a senior member of the operations team in Cerberus' automotive and industrial practice. And Wolfgang Bernhard, former Chrysler chief operating officer, is a newcomer to Cerberus. Last year, GM sold a majority stake in its General Motors Acceptance Corp. financing arm to a consortium of investors led by Cerberus for about $14 billion. Analysts had said buying a big stake in Chrysler would let Cerberus combine GMAC operations with Chrysler Financial. In December, Cerberus was part of a consortium of investors that said it would invest $3.4 billion in the struggling auto parts giant Delphi Corp. in exchange for new shares of Delphi stock as it emerged from Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/business/7495592.html	Cerberus to pay $7.4 billion for 80.1 percent of Chrysler | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Business Cerberus to pay $7.4 billion for 80.1 percent of Chrysler Story Published: May 14, 2007 at 9:03 AM PDT Story Updated: May 14, 2007 at 9:23 AM PDT FRANKFURT, Germany (AP) - German-based DaimlerChrysler said Monday it will sell almost all of money-losing Chrysler to a private equity firm for $7.4 billion, backing out of a troubled 1998 takeover aimed at creating a global automotive powerhouse. Eighty percent of Chrysler Group, burdened by high pension and health costs and declining market share in the United States, will be sold to Cerberus Capital Management LP. Cerberus is taking a huge risk by agreeing to take on billions of dollars in pension and retiree health care costs at Chrysler. Cerberus Chairman John Snow, a former U.S. treasury secretary, told a news conference in Germany that the New York-based private equity firm believes in Chrysler and wants to see the company recover. "We think at this particular point in Chrysler's history, there may be opportunities in the private world, the world of private investment, that create more room for growth and expansion, that allow management to focus with greater intensity on the day-to-day business of producing better cars," Snow said. DaimlerChrysler AG said Monday it will sell 80.1 percent of the money-losing Chrysler to Cerberus. It was a stunning reversal of the $36 billion takeover by Daimler-Benz AG in 1998 that was meant to be a blissful marriage between Mercedes and Jeep and Dodge brands. The move is a huge bet for Cerberus, which has agreed to take on billions of dollars in pension and retiree health care costs at Chrysler. Cerberus has steadily been building strength in the automobile business. It led a consortium that bought a majority stake last year in General Motors Acceptance Corp., the financial arm of GM, and plans to invest in ailing auto parts giant Delphi. The prospect of a sale to a private equity firm had worried unions in the United States and Canada because of the firms' tendency to slash costs and jobs. Daimler will retain 19.9 percent of Chrysler and continue to work with it on drive systems, purchasing, sales and financial services outside North America. But it was clear that DaimlerChrysler and its chief executive Dieter Zetsche, who tried to prop up sales in the U.S. with his "Dr. Z" television commercials, had lost confidence that a combined Chrysler and Daimler could be a worldwide automotive leader. "We determined that DaimlerChrysler, as currently structured, would not provide the best" framework, Zetsche told reporters in Stuttgart, adding that "at the same time, given my experience with and commitment to Chrysler, this was a difficult task for me personally." Shareholders reacted positively. DaimlerChrysler's U.S. shares rose $2.98, or 3.77 percent, to $82 in Monday morning trading. DaimlerChrysler said the deal is likely to be completed by the third quarter and that it would reduce its overall profit by as much as $5.4 billion for 2007. Snow said that under Chrysler's leadership, the company's quality and productivity have risen and it has a variety of new products that will be well-received in the marketplace. "We're going to support those initiatives and we're going to support your plans," he said. Shareholders must approve changing the German company's name to Daimler AG. A vote will likely be scheduled this fall, the company said. The German-American automaker said an affiliate of Cerberus will hold the majority of a new Chrysler Holding LLC, while DaimlerChrysler will keep a 19.9 percent stake. Private equity firms typically use money provided by pension funds and hedge funds and wealthy private investors to acquire public companies or parts of companies and take them private, often to reorganize and later sell at a profit. But Snow said Cerberus would focus on longer-term earnings. "We don't think about the next quarter. We don't think about what analysts have to say about us. We care very much about producing long-term results for investors," he said. The United Auto Workers' endorsement of the transaction was a shift from earlier this year, when UAW President Ron Gettelfinger warned that a private equity buyer would "strip and flip" the company by selling it off in pieces. Gettelfinger, speaking on WJR-AM in Detroit, said he made a last-minute pitch to keep Chrysler with Daimler over the weekend, but when that failed, he decided to embrace the Cerberus purchase. "We did make a last-ditch effort pitch this weekend in Stuttgart with Dr. Zetsche about maintaining the status quo. That appeared to be less and less an option. He made it unequivocally clear it was no longer an option. He spent an hour and a half taking us through the entire selection process," Gettelfinger said. "We made the pitch all the way home that we wanted the Chrysler Group to stay under the Daimler umbrella but it's not there. The decision has been made, we're supportive of it." "We're going to close that past chapter. We're going to move forward." Canadian Auto Workers President Buzz Hargrove said he was assured that the collective bargaining agreement with Chrysler would be honored and that no jobs would be eliminated. Analysts said last week that Magna International founder and Chairman Frank Stronach was the likely leading bidder for Chrysler. Billionaire investor Kirk Kerkorian, who tried to take control of Chrysler in the 1990s, also has said he would make a bid, but it was apparently spurned. Zetsche announced Feb. 14 that all options were open for Chrysler, which lost $1.5 billion last year and is undergoing a restructuring plan that will eventually shed 13,000 jobs. Snow said the deal was a sign of faith in Chrysler, an iconic American brand and third-largest U.S. carmaker behind General Motors Corp. and Ford Motor Co. Norris Freeman III, 33, of Detroit, a 12-year Chrysler employee who works the line at the Warren Truck Assembly Plant, was skeptical of the move. "I don't think Cerberus is going to do us any justice. I think Kirk Kerkorian had a better interest in us. I think Cerberus is in it just for the money," he said. Cerberus also has former Vice President Dan Quayle as an adviser. David W. Thursfield, who used to run Ford in Europe, is a senior member of the operations team in Cerberus' automotive and industrial practice. And Wolfgang Bernhard, former Chrysler chief operating officer, is a newcomer to Cerberus. Last year, GM sold a majority stake in its General Motors Acceptance Corp. financing arm to a consortium of investors led by Cerberus for about $14 billion. Analysts had said buying a big stake in Chrysler would let Cerberus combine GMAC operations with Chrysler Financial. In December, Cerberus was part of a consortium of investors that said it would invest $3.4 billion in the struggling auto parts giant Delphi Corp. in exchange for new shares of Delphi stock as it emerged from Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/business/7513202.html	Reuters agrees to $17.2 billion Thomson takeover offer | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Business Reuters agrees to $17.2 billion Thomson takeover offer Story Published: May 15, 2007 at 9:04 AM PDT Story Updated: May 15, 2007 at 9:04 AM PDT LONDON (AP) - Reuters agreed on Tuesday to a $17.2 billion takeover by Thomson that would vault the combined entity ahead of Bloomberg to become the world's largest financial data and news provider. The combined company will be headed by Tom Glocer, 47, who is now chief executive of Reuters, and he will be responsible for finding the $500 million in savings the companies are promising to deliver by the third year. Reuters trustees, who could have vetoed any takeover, endorsed the deal, which is still subject to approval by shareholders and regulators. "We believe that the formation of Thomson-Reuters marks a watershed in the global information business, and will underpin the strength, integrity and sustainability of Reuters as a global leader in news and financial information for many years to come," said Pehr Gyllenhammar, chairman of the trustees. Holders of each Reuters Group PLC share traded in London will be paid the equivalent of about $7 in cash and 0.16 shares of Thomson Corp.'s Toronto-listed stock. The value of the deal is calculated based on Thomson's closing share price of 48.46 Canadian dollars on the Toronto Stock Exchange on May 3, the day before the companies announced they were exploring a combination. Shareholders of Thomson, formally based in Toronto but with its operational head office in Stamford, Conn., would control more than three quarters of the shares in the new company, Thomson-Reuters PLC. Woodbridge, the Thomson family holding company which controls roughly 70 percent of Thomson, will own approximately 53 percent of the combined business. Other Thomson shareholders will have 23 percent and Reuters shareholders 24 percent, the companies said. Reuters and Thomson compete with Bloomberg LP, founded by New York Mayor Mike Bloomberg, in providing data terminals to the world's major banks and brokerages. Reuters was the market leader for years before steadily losing ground to Bloomberg. An April report from Inside Market Data Reference said Bloomberg has a 33 percent share of the market, with Reuters holding 23 percent and Thomson 11 percent. "For Thomson, it is a defining moment in our journey to become the information provider of choice for the world's business and professional markets," said Richard J. Harrington, Thomson's president and chief executive. Harrington, 60, will step down when the merger is completed. London-based Reuters was born in 1851 when Paul Julius Reuter started sending stock market quotations between London and Paris via the new Calais-Dover cable. Reuters shares rose 3.1 percent to 624.5 pence ($12.38) on the London Stock Exchange at midday. The merged companies will have a dual-listed structure. The renamed Thomson-Reuters will retain current listings on the Toronto Stock Exchange and on the New York Stock Exchange. It also will apply for its ordinary shares to be listed on the London Stock Exchange and intends to apply for its American Depositary Shares to be listed on Nasdaq. "The companies will be separate legal entities but will be managed and operated as if they were a single economic enterprise," the announcement said. "The boards of the two companies will be identical and the combined business will be managed by a single senior executive management team." The combined Thomson Financial unit and Reuters financial and media businesses will be called Reuters. Thomson's professional businesses - legal, tax and accounting, scientific and healthcare - will be branded as Thomson-Reuters Professional. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/business/7513202.html	Reuters agrees to $17.2 billion Thomson takeover offer | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Business Reuters agrees to $17.2 billion Thomson takeover offer Story Published: May 15, 2007 at 9:04 AM PDT Story Updated: May 15, 2007 at 9:04 AM PDT LONDON (AP) - Reuters agreed on Tuesday to a $17.2 billion takeover by Thomson that would vault the combined entity ahead of Bloomberg to become the world's largest financial data and news provider. The combined company will be headed by Tom Glocer, 47, who is now chief executive of Reuters, and he will be responsible for finding the $500 million in savings the companies are promising to deliver by the third year. Reuters trustees, who could have vetoed any takeover, endorsed the deal, which is still subject to approval by shareholders and regulators. "We believe that the formation of Thomson-Reuters marks a watershed in the global information business, and will underpin the strength, integrity and sustainability of Reuters as a global leader in news and financial information for many years to come," said Pehr Gyllenhammar, chairman of the trustees. Holders of each Reuters Group PLC share traded in London will be paid the equivalent of about $7 in cash and 0.16 shares of Thomson Corp.'s Toronto-listed stock. The value of the deal is calculated based on Thomson's closing share price of 48.46 Canadian dollars on the Toronto Stock Exchange on May 3, the day before the companies announced they were exploring a combination. Shareholders of Thomson, formally based in Toronto but with its operational head office in Stamford, Conn., would control more than three quarters of the shares in the new company, Thomson-Reuters PLC. Woodbridge, the Thomson family holding company which controls roughly 70 percent of Thomson, will own approximately 53 percent of the combined business. Other Thomson shareholders will have 23 percent and Reuters shareholders 24 percent, the companies said. Reuters and Thomson compete with Bloomberg LP, founded by New York Mayor Mike Bloomberg, in providing data terminals to the world's major banks and brokerages. Reuters was the market leader for years before steadily losing ground to Bloomberg. An April report from Inside Market Data Reference said Bloomberg has a 33 percent share of the market, with Reuters holding 23 percent and Thomson 11 percent. "For Thomson, it is a defining moment in our journey to become the information provider of choice for the world's business and professional markets," said Richard J. Harrington, Thomson's president and chief executive. Harrington, 60, will step down when the merger is completed. London-based Reuters was born in 1851 when Paul Julius Reuter started sending stock market quotations between London and Paris via the new Calais-Dover cable. Reuters shares rose 3.1 percent to 624.5 pence ($12.38) on the London Stock Exchange at midday. The merged companies will have a dual-listed structure. The renamed Thomson-Reuters will retain current listings on the Toronto Stock Exchange and on the New York Stock Exchange. It also will apply for its ordinary shares to be listed on the London Stock Exchange and intends to apply for its American Depositary Shares to be listed on Nasdaq. "The companies will be separate legal entities but will be managed and operated as if they were a single economic enterprise," the announcement said. "The boards of the two companies will be identical and the combined business will be managed by a single senior executive management team." The combined Thomson Financial unit and Reuters financial and media businesses will be called Reuters. Thomson's professional businesses - legal, tax and accounting, scientific and healthcare - will be branded as Thomson-Reuters Professional. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/business/7513157.html	IRS says record number of people e-filed their tax returns | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Business IRS says record number of people e-filed their tax returns Story Published: May 15, 2007 at 9:02 AM PDT Story Updated: May 15, 2007 at 9:02 AM PDT WASHINGTON (AP) - A record 77 million taxpayers have filed their tax returns electronically this year, the Internal Revenue Service said Tuesday. The IRS also said that as of May 4, the average refund this year was $2,255, up 2.5 percent over the same time last year. More than 59 million refunds were deposited directly into savings, checking and brokerage accounts, more than 61 percent of all refunds issued. This year the IRS permitted direct deposit of refunds into as many as three separate financial accounts. The IRS said those choosing direct deposit got refunds at least a week sooner than others. The agency said that as of May 4 it had received 128 million returns and processed 114 million. Of those, 76.8 million were filed electronically - almost 55 million by tax professionals and 22 million through home computers. Taxpayers e-filing from home were up 11 percent over the same time last year. Based on current trends, the agency expects about 58 percent of all returns to be e-filed this year. The IRS said 140 million people had visited the agency's Web site to receive help and information, up from 128 million at the same time in 2006. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/business/7513157.html	IRS says record number of people e-filed their tax returns | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Business IRS says record number of people e-filed their tax returns Story Published: May 15, 2007 at 9:02 AM PDT Story Updated: May 15, 2007 at 9:02 AM PDT WASHINGTON (AP) - A record 77 million taxpayers have filed their tax returns electronically this year, the Internal Revenue Service said Tuesday. The IRS also said that as of May 4, the average refund this year was $2,255, up 2.5 percent over the same time last year. More than 59 million refunds were deposited directly into savings, checking and brokerage accounts, more than 61 percent of all refunds issued. This year the IRS permitted direct deposit of refunds into as many as three separate financial accounts. The IRS said those choosing direct deposit got refunds at least a week sooner than others. The agency said that as of May 4 it had received 128 million returns and processed 114 million. Of those, 76.8 million were filed electronically - almost 55 million by tax professionals and 22 million through home computers. Taxpayers e-filing from home were up 11 percent over the same time last year. Based on current trends, the agency expects about 58 percent of all returns to be e-filed this year. The IRS said 140 million people had visited the agency's Web site to receive help and information, up from 128 million at the same time in 2006. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/business/7513257.html	Fed. chairman says new regulations should not stifle innovation | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Business Fed. chairman says new regulations should not stifle innovation Story Published: May 15, 2007 at 9:07 AM PDT Story Updated: May 15, 2007 at 9:07 AM PDT WASHINGTON (AP) - The best way to regulate a world of increasingly complex financial instruments is to pursue broad principles without stifling innovation, Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke said Tuesday. Bernanke said that in responding to the challenges of rapidly evolving financial markets, regulators need to keep in mind the economic advantages that hedge funds and investments such as credit derivatives provide by helping to diversify risks. "We should always keep in view the enormous economic benefits that flow from a healthy and innovative financial sector," he said in remarks prepared for a financial markets conference in Sea Island, Ga. In his speech, Bernanke specifically addressed the growth of credit derivatives, financial instruments that derive their value from the bond market. Billionaire investor Warren Buffett has warned of the risks of such investments, calling them "financial weapons of mass destruction." Recently, concerns have been raised about one segment of this market, investments backed by subprime mortgages, because of a sharp rise in mortgage defaults. Bernanke cautioned against over-regulation of specific problems, saying that it was important to allow financial markets the room to innovate. He made a similar argument in a speech last month concerning hedge funds, saying that a market-based approach was the best way to regulate the trillion-dollar hedge fund industry. "The increasing sophistication and depth of financial markets promote economic growth by allocating capital where it can be most productive," Bernanke said in the speech Tuesday, copies of which were distributed in Washington. "When proposing or implementing regulation, we must seek to preserve the benefits of financial innovation even as we address the risks that may accompany that innovation," he said. Bernanke did not specify any area where he thought increased regulation was necessary. Rather, he laid out certain principles that regulators should follow in considering new rules. "We should strive to implement a regulatory regime that is principles-based, risk-focused and consistently applied," he said. Bernanke's comments were delivered by satellite to the conference, which was sponsored by the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta. In his remarks, he reminded the group that at last year's conference he had cautioned against adoption of a proposal that would have sought to better regulate hedge funds by developing a database of the holdings of various hedge funds. He said he still held the view that creating such a database would be extremely difficult given how quickly hedge funds can change their holdings. He also said the effort by regulators to create such an information base would give investors in hedge funds a false sense of security that regulators had been able to reduce the risks they were facing. Bernanke is a member of the President's Working Group, formed after the 1987 stock market crash to provide recommendations on ways to improve market regulation. That group recently concluded that what the hedge fund industry needed was increased vigilance on the part of investors rather than new government rules. Critics, however, contend that large hedge fund failures, such as the collapse last fall of Amaranth Advisors, point to the need for tighter government regulations. In his speech, Bernanke said it was appropriate for the conference to have focused on hedge funds last year and to be examining credit derivatives this year. "The increasing prominence of hedge funds and the growth of the market for credit derivatives are both aspects of the remarkable wave of financial innovation that we have seen in recent years," he said. Bernanke said that it was important for the Fed and other regulators to resist the calls to develop rules that are too specific. "We should strive to develop common, principles-based policy responses that can be applied consistently across the financial sector to meet clearly defined objectives," he said. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/business/7513257.html	Fed. chairman says new regulations should not stifle innovation | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Business Fed. chairman says new regulations should not stifle innovation Story Published: May 15, 2007 at 9:07 AM PDT Story Updated: May 15, 2007 at 9:07 AM PDT WASHINGTON (AP) - The best way to regulate a world of increasingly complex financial instruments is to pursue broad principles without stifling innovation, Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke said Tuesday. Bernanke said that in responding to the challenges of rapidly evolving financial markets, regulators need to keep in mind the economic advantages that hedge funds and investments such as credit derivatives provide by helping to diversify risks. "We should always keep in view the enormous economic benefits that flow from a healthy and innovative financial sector," he said in remarks prepared for a financial markets conference in Sea Island, Ga. In his speech, Bernanke specifically addressed the growth of credit derivatives, financial instruments that derive their value from the bond market. Billionaire investor Warren Buffett has warned of the risks of such investments, calling them "financial weapons of mass destruction." Recently, concerns have been raised about one segment of this market, investments backed by subprime mortgages, because of a sharp rise in mortgage defaults. Bernanke cautioned against over-regulation of specific problems, saying that it was important to allow financial markets the room to innovate. He made a similar argument in a speech last month concerning hedge funds, saying that a market-based approach was the best way to regulate the trillion-dollar hedge fund industry. "The increasing sophistication and depth of financial markets promote economic growth by allocating capital where it can be most productive," Bernanke said in the speech Tuesday, copies of which were distributed in Washington. "When proposing or implementing regulation, we must seek to preserve the benefits of financial innovation even as we address the risks that may accompany that innovation," he said. Bernanke did not specify any area where he thought increased regulation was necessary. Rather, he laid out certain principles that regulators should follow in considering new rules. "We should strive to implement a regulatory regime that is principles-based, risk-focused and consistently applied," he said. Bernanke's comments were delivered by satellite to the conference, which was sponsored by the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta. In his remarks, he reminded the group that at last year's conference he had cautioned against adoption of a proposal that would have sought to better regulate hedge funds by developing a database of the holdings of various hedge funds. He said he still held the view that creating such a database would be extremely difficult given how quickly hedge funds can change their holdings. He also said the effort by regulators to create such an information base would give investors in hedge funds a false sense of security that regulators had been able to reduce the risks they were facing. Bernanke is a member of the President's Working Group, formed after the 1987 stock market crash to provide recommendations on ways to improve market regulation. That group recently concluded that what the hedge fund industry needed was increased vigilance on the part of investors rather than new government rules. Critics, however, contend that large hedge fund failures, such as the collapse last fall of Amaranth Advisors, point to the need for tighter government regulations. In his speech, Bernanke said it was appropriate for the conference to have focused on hedge funds last year and to be examining credit derivatives this year. "The increasing prominence of hedge funds and the growth of the market for credit derivatives are both aspects of the remarkable wave of financial innovation that we have seen in recent years," he said. Bernanke said that it was important for the Fed and other regulators to resist the calls to develop rules that are too specific. "We should strive to develop common, principles-based policy responses that can be applied consistently across the financial sector to meet clearly defined objectives," he said. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/business/7512942.html	Boeing 787 taking shape as wings arrive in Everett | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Business Boeing 787 taking shape as wings arrive in Everett The massive wings for the first Boeing 787 "Dreamliner" are unloaded from a super freighter "Dreamlifter" aircraft after a flight from Japan. Story Published: May 15, 2007 at 8:46 AM PDT Story Updated: May 15, 2007 at 10:18 AM PDT EVERETT, Wash. (AP) - The wings for the first Boeing 787 arrived on a super-freighter flight from Japan early Tuesday morning at the factory in Everett. The factory needs one more major component -- a central fuselage section from Charleston, South Carolina. Then workers can assemble the plane that is scheduled to roll out July 8th. The plane is scheduled to make its first flight in August and be delivered in May of next year. Japanese industries are building more than a third of the 787. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/business/7512942.html	Boeing 787 taking shape as wings arrive in Everett | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Business Boeing 787 taking shape as wings arrive in Everett The massive wings for the first Boeing 787 "Dreamliner" are unloaded from a super freighter "Dreamlifter" aircraft after a flight from Japan. Story Published: May 15, 2007 at 8:46 AM PDT Story Updated: May 15, 2007 at 10:18 AM PDT EVERETT, Wash. (AP) - The wings for the first Boeing 787 arrived on a super-freighter flight from Japan early Tuesday morning at the factory in Everett. The factory needs one more major component -- a central fuselage section from Charleston, South Carolina. Then workers can assemble the plane that is scheduled to roll out July 8th. The plane is scheduled to make its first flight in August and be delivered in May of next year. Japanese industries are building more than a third of the 787. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/business	KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Business State jobless rate dips to record low 4.4 percent in April Washington's unemployment rate dipped to a record 4.4 percent last month, the lowest since comparable record-keeping more than three decades ago, the state Employment Security Department announced Tuesday. Fed. chairman says new regulations should not stifle innovation The best way to regulate a world of increasingly complex financial instruments is to pursue broad principles without stifling innovation, Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke said Tuesday. Consumer inflation moderates slightly in April despite surging gasoline prices Consumer prices rose by 0.4 percent last month following a 0.6 percent jump in March, the Labor Department reported Tuesday. The April increase was slightly lower than expected although gasoline pump prices jumped by 4.7 percent after an even bigger 10.6 percent March advance. Reuters agrees to $17.2 billion Thomson takeover offer IRS says record number of people e-filed their tax returns Wal-Mart first-quarter earnings rise 8 percent Boeing 787 taking shape as wings arrive in Everett Cerberus to pay $7.4 billion for 80.1 percent of Chrysler Younger adults lead way as growing numbers of households lack landline phones Supreme Court orders review of $82.6 million award in Ford Explorer rollover Wal-Mart to display Skype phone gear Merck selling generics unit for $6.6B Splenda settles with Equal over claims Russia strikes natural gas pipeline deal Consumer confidence stuck in rut amid worries about gas prices Guilty pleas entered in giant Wall Street insider-trading ring Alabama chosen by ThyssenKrupp for $4.2 billion steel plant Hershey cuts 2007 earnings estimate Little-known company purchases remaining Yukos assets Rates on 30-year mortgages edge lower for third time in last 4 weeks Northwest cherry growers expect another large harvest EADS swings to 1st-quarter loss, dragged down by Airbus Retailers post weak April sales JetBlue names COO Barger to replace founder Neeleman as CEO Viacom's first-quarter earnings down 36 percent Clearwire loss widens in first quarter since IPO Senate committee approves fuel economy increase to 35 mpg Microsoft signs Web video deals with Volvo, Chivas Brothers Cisco shares fall despite big third-quarter profit Grapeseed oil company uses recycled product as biofuel for its car Grasso wins round in NYSE pay fight Amazon settles patent suits with IBM 'Cocaine' drink is pulled from shelves Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/business	KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Business State jobless rate dips to record low 4.4 percent in April Washington's unemployment rate dipped to a record 4.4 percent last month, the lowest since comparable record-keeping more than three decades ago, the state Employment Security Department announced Tuesday. Fed. chairman says new regulations should not stifle innovation The best way to regulate a world of increasingly complex financial instruments is to pursue broad principles without stifling innovation, Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke said Tuesday. Consumer inflation moderates slightly in April despite surging gasoline prices Consumer prices rose by 0.4 percent last month following a 0.6 percent jump in March, the Labor Department reported Tuesday. The April increase was slightly lower than expected although gasoline pump prices jumped by 4.7 percent after an even bigger 10.6 percent March advance. Reuters agrees to $17.2 billion Thomson takeover offer IRS says record number of people e-filed their tax returns Wal-Mart first-quarter earnings rise 8 percent Boeing 787 taking shape as wings arrive in Everett Cerberus to pay $7.4 billion for 80.1 percent of Chrysler Younger adults lead way as growing numbers of households lack landline phones Supreme Court orders review of $82.6 million award in Ford Explorer rollover Wal-Mart to display Skype phone gear Merck selling generics unit for $6.6B Splenda settles with Equal over claims Russia strikes natural gas pipeline deal Consumer confidence stuck in rut amid worries about gas prices Guilty pleas entered in giant Wall Street insider-trading ring Alabama chosen by ThyssenKrupp for $4.2 billion steel plant Hershey cuts 2007 earnings estimate Little-known company purchases remaining Yukos assets Rates on 30-year mortgages edge lower for third time in last 4 weeks Northwest cherry growers expect another large harvest EADS swings to 1st-quarter loss, dragged down by Airbus Retailers post weak April sales JetBlue names COO Barger to replace founder Neeleman as CEO Viacom's first-quarter earnings down 36 percent Clearwire loss widens in first quarter since IPO Senate committee approves fuel economy increase to 35 mpg Microsoft signs Web video deals with Volvo, Chivas Brothers Cisco shares fall despite big third-quarter profit Grapeseed oil company uses recycled product as biofuel for its car Grasso wins round in NYSE pay fight Amazon settles patent suits with IBM 'Cocaine' drink is pulled from shelves Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/business/7495542.html	Younger adults lead way as growing numbers of households lack landline phones | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Business Younger adults lead way as growing numbers of households lack landline phones Story Published: May 14, 2007 at 9:00 AM PDT Story Updated: May 14, 2007 at 9:01 AM PDT WASHINGTON (AP) - More than a quarter of young adults have only cell phones, making them the leading edge of a strengthening move away from traditional landline telephones, a federal survey showed Monday. Overall, the portion of adults with only cell phones grew by more than 2 percentage points in the latter half of last year to nearly 12 percent, an expansion rate that began in the first part of 2006 and was double earlier rates of growth. One in four people aged 18 to 24 had only cell phones, as did 29 percent of those aged 25 to 29, the study showed. The percentages declined with age after that, with 2 percent of those 65 or over having only cell phones. The trend away from landline phones affects the telephone industry, 911 emergency service providers, and government and private polling organizations, which rely heavily on random calls to households with wired telephones. "All those wireless adults are missed" in those marketing and opinion surveys, said Stephen Blumberg, senior scientist at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and an author of the report. That's a potential problem because people with only cell phones tend to be disproportionately young and have lower incomes. Studies have so far concluded that cell-phone-only users are not a large or diverse enough group to affect the accuracy of broad polls that omit them. The data, from the CDC's National Health Interview Survey, also found: -15 percent of Hispanic adults, 13 percent of black adults, 12 percent of Asians and 11 percent of whites had only cell phones; -22 percent of the poorest adults had only cell phones, double the rate for those who are not poor; -13 percent of males and 11 percent of females had cell phones only; -Nearly 2 percent of adults had no phone at all. The figures were based on interviews with people in 13,056 households from June through December last year. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/business/7495542.html	Younger adults lead way as growing numbers of households lack landline phones | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Business Younger adults lead way as growing numbers of households lack landline phones Story Published: May 14, 2007 at 9:00 AM PDT Story Updated: May 14, 2007 at 9:01 AM PDT WASHINGTON (AP) - More than a quarter of young adults have only cell phones, making them the leading edge of a strengthening move away from traditional landline telephones, a federal survey showed Monday. Overall, the portion of adults with only cell phones grew by more than 2 percentage points in the latter half of last year to nearly 12 percent, an expansion rate that began in the first part of 2006 and was double earlier rates of growth. One in four people aged 18 to 24 had only cell phones, as did 29 percent of those aged 25 to 29, the study showed. The percentages declined with age after that, with 2 percent of those 65 or over having only cell phones. The trend away from landline phones affects the telephone industry, 911 emergency service providers, and government and private polling organizations, which rely heavily on random calls to households with wired telephones. "All those wireless adults are missed" in those marketing and opinion surveys, said Stephen Blumberg, senior scientist at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and an author of the report. That's a potential problem because people with only cell phones tend to be disproportionately young and have lower incomes. Studies have so far concluded that cell-phone-only users are not a large or diverse enough group to affect the accuracy of broad polls that omit them. The data, from the CDC's National Health Interview Survey, also found: -15 percent of Hispanic adults, 13 percent of black adults, 12 percent of Asians and 11 percent of whites had only cell phones; -22 percent of the poorest adults had only cell phones, double the rate for those who are not poor; -13 percent of males and 11 percent of females had cell phones only; -Nearly 2 percent of adults had no phone at all. The figures were based on interviews with people in 13,056 households from June through December last year. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/business/7513242.html	Consumer inflation moderates slightly in April despite surging gasoline prices | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Business Consumer inflation moderates slightly in April despite surging gasoline prices Story Published: May 15, 2007 at 9:06 AM PDT Story Updated: May 15, 2007 at 9:06 AM PDT WASHINGTON (AP) - Consumer inflation eased a bit in April even though gasoline prices surged for a second straight month. Consumer prices rose by 0.4 percent last month following a 0.6 percent jump in March, the Labor Department reported Tuesday. The April increase was slightly lower than expected although gasoline pump prices jumped by 4.7 percent after an even bigger 10.6 percent March advance. Core inflation, which excludes volatile food and energy costs, edged up just 0.2 percent as falling prices for clothing, airline tickets and tobacco products helped restrain underlying inflation. The nationwide average price for gasoline has surged to a record $3.07 per gallon, according to the latest Lundberg Survey, surpassing the old mark of $3.03 per gallon set last August. The big price spike has been blamed on unexpected refinery shut downs that have crimped supplies. Analysts are warning that consumers can expect further price increases. Through the first four months of this year, consumer inflation is rising at an annual rate of 4.8 percent, almost double the 2.5 percent increase for all of 2006. The acceleration has occurred in large part because of higher costs for food and energy. However, excluding energy and food, core inflation is up at an annual rate of just 2.2 percent through April, an improvement from the 2.6 percent rise in core prices for all of 2006. That improvement is certain to be welcomed at the Federal Reserve, where policymakers are hoping that their campaign to restrain inflationary pressures is beginning to show results. After pushing rates up over a two-year period, the Fed has left rates unchanged for the past 11 months, watching to see whether the slowing economy will reduce price pressures. Energy prices have been rising at an annual rate of 25.3 percent so far this year compared with a gain of 2.9 percent for all of 2006, when a big spike in energy costs in the first part of the year was partially reversed in the fall and early winter. Food costs, which have been pushed higher by the increased demand for corn to use in ethanol production, were up at an annual rate of 6.7 percent in the first four months of this year compared with a 2.1 percent rise for all of 2006. For April, food costs rose by 0.4 percent with big increases for beef, poultry and vegetables offsetting declines in the price of pork and fruits. The 0.2 percent rise in prices excluding food and energy followed a 0.1 percent increase in March. Over the past 12 months, core prices are up 2.3 percent, still above the Fed's preferred comfort zone of 1 percent to 2 percent. Many economists believe the Fed will keep rates unchanged until core inflation falls further. They believe the slowing economy will bring about lower inflation but not without a rise in unemployment, which they expect will climb from the current 4.5 percent to 5 percent by the end of the year. The faster pace of inflation so far this year is being felt in workers' paychecks. The Labor Department said that average weekly earnings for non-supervisory workers fell by 0.5 percent in April, compared to March, after adjusting for inflation. Inflation-adjusted wages were up 0.9 percent in April compared with 12 months ago, the smallest year-over-year gain in eight months. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/business/7513242.html	Consumer inflation moderates slightly in April despite surging gasoline prices | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Business Consumer inflation moderates slightly in April despite surging gasoline prices Story Published: May 15, 2007 at 9:06 AM PDT Story Updated: May 15, 2007 at 9:06 AM PDT WASHINGTON (AP) - Consumer inflation eased a bit in April even though gasoline prices surged for a second straight month. Consumer prices rose by 0.4 percent last month following a 0.6 percent jump in March, the Labor Department reported Tuesday. The April increase was slightly lower than expected although gasoline pump prices jumped by 4.7 percent after an even bigger 10.6 percent March advance. Core inflation, which excludes volatile food and energy costs, edged up just 0.2 percent as falling prices for clothing, airline tickets and tobacco products helped restrain underlying inflation. The nationwide average price for gasoline has surged to a record $3.07 per gallon, according to the latest Lundberg Survey, surpassing the old mark of $3.03 per gallon set last August. The big price spike has been blamed on unexpected refinery shut downs that have crimped supplies. Analysts are warning that consumers can expect further price increases. Through the first four months of this year, consumer inflation is rising at an annual rate of 4.8 percent, almost double the 2.5 percent increase for all of 2006. The acceleration has occurred in large part because of higher costs for food and energy. However, excluding energy and food, core inflation is up at an annual rate of just 2.2 percent through April, an improvement from the 2.6 percent rise in core prices for all of 2006. That improvement is certain to be welcomed at the Federal Reserve, where policymakers are hoping that their campaign to restrain inflationary pressures is beginning to show results. After pushing rates up over a two-year period, the Fed has left rates unchanged for the past 11 months, watching to see whether the slowing economy will reduce price pressures. Energy prices have been rising at an annual rate of 25.3 percent so far this year compared with a gain of 2.9 percent for all of 2006, when a big spike in energy costs in the first part of the year was partially reversed in the fall and early winter. Food costs, which have been pushed higher by the increased demand for corn to use in ethanol production, were up at an annual rate of 6.7 percent in the first four months of this year compared with a 2.1 percent rise for all of 2006. For April, food costs rose by 0.4 percent with big increases for beef, poultry and vegetables offsetting declines in the price of pork and fruits. The 0.2 percent rise in prices excluding food and energy followed a 0.1 percent increase in March. Over the past 12 months, core prices are up 2.3 percent, still above the Fed's preferred comfort zone of 1 percent to 2 percent. Many economists believe the Fed will keep rates unchanged until core inflation falls further. They believe the slowing economy will bring about lower inflation but not without a rise in unemployment, which they expect will climb from the current 4.5 percent to 5 percent by the end of the year. The faster pace of inflation so far this year is being felt in workers' paychecks. The Labor Department said that average weekly earnings for non-supervisory workers fell by 0.5 percent in April, compared to March, after adjusting for inflation. Inflation-adjusted wages were up 0.9 percent in April compared with 12 months ago, the smallest year-over-year gain in eight months. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/business/7513132.html	Wal-Mart first-quarter earnings rise 8 percent | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Business Wal-Mart first-quarter earnings rise 8 percent Story Published: May 15, 2007 at 9:00 AM PDT Story Updated: May 15, 2007 at 9:00 AM PDT BENTONVILLE, Ark. (AP) - Wal-Mart Stores Inc. warned Tuesday that its profits in the current quarter could fall short of expectations after reporting an 8 percent gain in first-quarter earnings amid cost-cutting and strength in its warehouse clubs and international businesses. The company continued to struggle with its namesake discount business. The tepid outlook from Wal-Mart - considered a barometer for the retail industry - could serve as a warning bell that rising gasoline prices and a weakening housing market will continue to eat away at consumer spending in the coming months. The announcement came as Home Depot Inc. reported a 29.5 percent drop in first-quarter profits on a slight increase in sales. For its first quarter, Wal-Mart said it earned $2.83 billion, or 68 cents per share, compared with $2.62 billion, or 64 cents per share, in the previous year quarter. Wal-Mart had revenue of $86.41 billion in the three months ending April 30, up from $79.67 billion in the year prior. Analysts surveyed by Thomson Financial expected first-quarter earnings per share of 68 cents and revenues of $86.9 billion. Wal-Mart's shares fell 14 cents to $47.70 in early trading Tuesday. "Quite honestly, we're not satisfied with our overall performance, Wal-Mart President and Chief Executive Lee Scott said during a pre-recorded conference call. Same-store sales rose 0.6 percent in the first quarter at Wal-Mart's U.S. stores, with its Sam's Club warehouse stores accounting for all of the gain. Wal-Mart's namesake stores slipped 0.1 percent in the quarter, while Sam's Club warehouse stores rose 4.7 percent. Same-store sales ,or sales at stores opened at least a year, is a key gauge of retailer health because it measures growth at established locations open at least a year rather than at newly opened ones. For the current quarter, Wal-Mart projected same-store sales to be up a modest 1 percent to 2 percent. Scott said the company can perform better. "You will see us be more committed than ever to price leadership," Scott said. Sales and profits for the quarter were "not where we would have expected to be nor where we believe we should be." Bright spots include Sam's Club, which now has seven consecutive quarters in which profits grew faster than sales, Scott said. Wal-Mart's international division, the fastest growing part of the company, accounted for 23 percent of sales for the quarter. The company reacted to inflation in Mexico by lowering prices of tortillas and other staples, which Scott said was an investment in customer loyalty. In Great Britain, Scott said Wal-Mart's Asda chain added 1.5 million customers since mid-2005, half in stores that were already open. Wal-Mart said it expects second-quarter profits to be within a range of 75 cents to 79 cents per share. Analysts surveyed by Thomson Financial expect a consensus 79 cents per share for the period. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/business/7513132.html	Wal-Mart first-quarter earnings rise 8 percent | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Business Wal-Mart first-quarter earnings rise 8 percent Story Published: May 15, 2007 at 9:00 AM PDT Story Updated: May 15, 2007 at 9:00 AM PDT BENTONVILLE, Ark. (AP) - Wal-Mart Stores Inc. warned Tuesday that its profits in the current quarter could fall short of expectations after reporting an 8 percent gain in first-quarter earnings amid cost-cutting and strength in its warehouse clubs and international businesses. The company continued to struggle with its namesake discount business. The tepid outlook from Wal-Mart - considered a barometer for the retail industry - could serve as a warning bell that rising gasoline prices and a weakening housing market will continue to eat away at consumer spending in the coming months. The announcement came as Home Depot Inc. reported a 29.5 percent drop in first-quarter profits on a slight increase in sales. For its first quarter, Wal-Mart said it earned $2.83 billion, or 68 cents per share, compared with $2.62 billion, or 64 cents per share, in the previous year quarter. Wal-Mart had revenue of $86.41 billion in the three months ending April 30, up from $79.67 billion in the year prior. Analysts surveyed by Thomson Financial expected first-quarter earnings per share of 68 cents and revenues of $86.9 billion. Wal-Mart's shares fell 14 cents to $47.70 in early trading Tuesday. "Quite honestly, we're not satisfied with our overall performance, Wal-Mart President and Chief Executive Lee Scott said during a pre-recorded conference call. Same-store sales rose 0.6 percent in the first quarter at Wal-Mart's U.S. stores, with its Sam's Club warehouse stores accounting for all of the gain. Wal-Mart's namesake stores slipped 0.1 percent in the quarter, while Sam's Club warehouse stores rose 4.7 percent. Same-store sales ,or sales at stores opened at least a year, is a key gauge of retailer health because it measures growth at established locations open at least a year rather than at newly opened ones. For the current quarter, Wal-Mart projected same-store sales to be up a modest 1 percent to 2 percent. Scott said the company can perform better. "You will see us be more committed than ever to price leadership," Scott said. Sales and profits for the quarter were "not where we would have expected to be nor where we believe we should be." Bright spots include Sam's Club, which now has seven consecutive quarters in which profits grew faster than sales, Scott said. Wal-Mart's international division, the fastest growing part of the company, accounted for 23 percent of sales for the quarter. The company reacted to inflation in Mexico by lowering prices of tortillas and other staples, which Scott said was an investment in customer loyalty. In Great Britain, Scott said Wal-Mart's Asda chain added 1.5 million customers since mid-2005, half in stores that were already open. Wal-Mart said it expects second-quarter profits to be within a range of 75 cents to 79 cents per share. Analysts surveyed by Thomson Financial expect a consensus 79 cents per share for the period. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/business/7495422.html	Supreme Court orders review of $82.6 million award in Ford Explorer rollover | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Business Supreme Court orders review of $82.6 million award in Ford Explorer rollover Story Published: May 14, 2007 at 8:56 AM PDT Story Updated: May 14, 2007 at 8:56 AM PDT WASHINGTON (AP) - The Supreme Court ordered a state appeals court Monday to review a decision giving $82.6 million to a woman who was paralyzed after her Ford Explorer rolled over. The justices want a California appeals court to determine if its ruling is in line with the Supreme Court decision overturning a $79.5 punitive damages award in a tobacco case earlier this year. The court said then that a jury may punish a defendant only for the harm done to the person who is suing, not to others whose cases were not before it. Benetta Buell-Wilson, 51, was driving on an interstate east of San Diego in January 2002 when she swerved to avoid a metal object and lost control of her 1997 Explorer, which rolled 4 1/2 times. The mother of two was paralyzed from the waist down when the roof collapsed on her neck, severing her spine. In June 2004 a San Diego jury found that her Explorer was defective because of instability and a weak roof. A jury initially awarded $369 million, including $246 million in punitive damages. It was the first damage award against the Ford Motor Company involving a rollover of an Explorer and one of the biggest personal-injury awards ever against an automaker. Courts twice cut the size of the award. The $82.6 million approved by a California state appeals court now includes punitive damages of $55 million. Ford's legal team, led by former Solicitor General Theodore Olson, asked the court to take the case because it said Ford was being punished even though the design of the vehicle met federal safety standards. The case is Ford Motor Company v. Buell-Wilson, 06-1068. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/business/7495422.html	Supreme Court orders review of $82.6 million award in Ford Explorer rollover | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Business Supreme Court orders review of $82.6 million award in Ford Explorer rollover Story Published: May 14, 2007 at 8:56 AM PDT Story Updated: May 14, 2007 at 8:56 AM PDT WASHINGTON (AP) - The Supreme Court ordered a state appeals court Monday to review a decision giving $82.6 million to a woman who was paralyzed after her Ford Explorer rolled over. The justices want a California appeals court to determine if its ruling is in line with the Supreme Court decision overturning a $79.5 punitive damages award in a tobacco case earlier this year. The court said then that a jury may punish a defendant only for the harm done to the person who is suing, not to others whose cases were not before it. Benetta Buell-Wilson, 51, was driving on an interstate east of San Diego in January 2002 when she swerved to avoid a metal object and lost control of her 1997 Explorer, which rolled 4 1/2 times. The mother of two was paralyzed from the waist down when the roof collapsed on her neck, severing her spine. In June 2004 a San Diego jury found that her Explorer was defective because of instability and a weak roof. A jury initially awarded $369 million, including $246 million in punitive damages. It was the first damage award against the Ford Motor Company involving a rollover of an Explorer and one of the biggest personal-injury awards ever against an automaker. Courts twice cut the size of the award. The $82.6 million approved by a California state appeals court now includes punitive damages of $55 million. Ford's legal team, led by former Solicitor General Theodore Olson, asked the court to take the case because it said Ford was being punished even though the design of the vehicle met federal safety standards. The case is Ford Motor Company v. Buell-Wilson, 06-1068. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/business/7515357.html	State jobless rate dips to record low 4.4 percent in April | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Business State jobless rate dips to record low 4.4 percent in April Story Published: May 15, 2007 at 11:13 AM PDT Story Updated: May 15, 2007 at 12:24 PM PDT OLYMPIA, Wash. (AP) - Washington's unemployment rate dipped to a record 4.4 percent last month, the lowest since comparable record-keeping more than three decades ago, the state Employment Security Department announced Tuesday. The seasonally adjusted rate was an improvement from the previous month's record low of 4.6 percent. In a prepared statement, Gov. Chris Gregoire said it was "even further proof that our state economy is one of the strongest and fastest-growing in the nation." Economists typically define anything below 5 percent as full employment. The state's employers added about 2,900 net new jobs last month, with the largest growth in professional and business services, with 2,100 new jobs. Construction saw an increase of 900, and other groups, like membership organizations, grew by 500. Manufacturing was down by 900 jobs, financial activities decreased by 100, and government lost 100. More than 64,400 net new jobs were created in Washington from April 2006 to April 2007. Nonfarm jobs increased by 2.3 percent, compared to a national rate of 1.4 percent. The state estimates that about 145,400 people are still unemployed. The national jobless rate is 4.5 percent, a slight increase over March's 4.4 percent and below the 4.7 percent of one year ago. One year ago, Washington's rate was 4.9 percent. Unemployment rates, not seasonally adjusted, in metropolitan areas around the state: Bellingham, 4 percent; Bremerton, 4.2; Longview, 5.9; Mount Vernon-Anacortes, 4.6; Olympia, 4.2; Seattle-Bellevue-Everett, 3.6; Spokane, 4.3; Tacoma, 4.7; Tri-Cities, 5.1; Wenatchee, 5.1; and Yakima, 6.1. These labor market areas also reported: Aberdeen, 7 percent; Centralia, 6.8; Ellensburg, 4.4; Moses Lake, 5.8; Oak Harbor, 4.8; Port Angeles, 5.3; Pullman, 3.4; Shelton, 5.6; and Walla Walla, 4.7. Unemployment rates in these counties were: Adams, 5.1 percent; Asotin, 4.6; Benton, 4.6; Chelan, 5.2; Clark, 5; Columbia, 6.4; Douglas, 4.7; Ferry, 9.2; Franklin, 6.6; Garfield, 4.2; Jefferson, 4.6; King, 3.5; Klickitat, 6.9; Lincoln, 5.1; Okanogan, 6.7; Pacific, 6.6; Pend Oreille, 7; San Juan, 3.3; Skamania, 5.6; Snohomish, 3.8; Stevens, 7.3; and Wahkiakum, 6.5. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/business/7515357.html	State jobless rate dips to record low 4.4 percent in April | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Business State jobless rate dips to record low 4.4 percent in April Story Published: May 15, 2007 at 11:13 AM PDT Story Updated: May 15, 2007 at 12:24 PM PDT OLYMPIA, Wash. (AP) - Washington's unemployment rate dipped to a record 4.4 percent last month, the lowest since comparable record-keeping more than three decades ago, the state Employment Security Department announced Tuesday. The seasonally adjusted rate was an improvement from the previous month's record low of 4.6 percent. In a prepared statement, Gov. Chris Gregoire said it was "even further proof that our state economy is one of the strongest and fastest-growing in the nation." Economists typically define anything below 5 percent as full employment. The state's employers added about 2,900 net new jobs last month, with the largest growth in professional and business services, with 2,100 new jobs. Construction saw an increase of 900, and other groups, like membership organizations, grew by 500. Manufacturing was down by 900 jobs, financial activities decreased by 100, and government lost 100. More than 64,400 net new jobs were created in Washington from April 2006 to April 2007. Nonfarm jobs increased by 2.3 percent, compared to a national rate of 1.4 percent. The state estimates that about 145,400 people are still unemployed. The national jobless rate is 4.5 percent, a slight increase over March's 4.4 percent and below the 4.7 percent of one year ago. One year ago, Washington's rate was 4.9 percent. Unemployment rates, not seasonally adjusted, in metropolitan areas around the state: Bellingham, 4 percent; Bremerton, 4.2; Longview, 5.9; Mount Vernon-Anacortes, 4.6; Olympia, 4.2; Seattle-Bellevue-Everett, 3.6; Spokane, 4.3; Tacoma, 4.7; Tri-Cities, 5.1; Wenatchee, 5.1; and Yakima, 6.1. These labor market areas also reported: Aberdeen, 7 percent; Centralia, 6.8; Ellensburg, 4.4; Moses Lake, 5.8; Oak Harbor, 4.8; Port Angeles, 5.3; Pullman, 3.4; Shelton, 5.6; and Walla Walla, 4.7. Unemployment rates in these counties were: Adams, 5.1 percent; Asotin, 4.6; Benton, 4.6; Chelan, 5.2; Clark, 5; Columbia, 6.4; Douglas, 4.7; Ferry, 9.2; Franklin, 6.6; Garfield, 4.2; Jefferson, 4.6; King, 3.5; Klickitat, 6.9; Lincoln, 5.1; Okanogan, 6.7; Pacific, 6.6; Pend Oreille, 7; San Juan, 3.3; Skamania, 5.6; Snohomish, 3.8; Stevens, 7.3; and Wahkiakum, 6.5. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/business/7495592.html	Cerberus to pay $7.4 billion for 80.1 percent of Chrysler | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Business Cerberus to pay $7.4 billion for 80.1 percent of Chrysler Story Published: May 14, 2007 at 9:03 AM PDT Story Updated: May 14, 2007 at 9:23 AM PDT FRANKFURT, Germany (AP) - German-based DaimlerChrysler said Monday it will sell almost all of money-losing Chrysler to a private equity firm for $7.4 billion, backing out of a troubled 1998 takeover aimed at creating a global automotive powerhouse. Eighty percent of Chrysler Group, burdened by high pension and health costs and declining market share in the United States, will be sold to Cerberus Capital Management LP. Cerberus is taking a huge risk by agreeing to take on billions of dollars in pension and retiree health care costs at Chrysler. Cerberus Chairman John Snow, a former U.S. treasury secretary, told a news conference in Germany that the New York-based private equity firm believes in Chrysler and wants to see the company recover. "We think at this particular point in Chrysler's history, there may be opportunities in the private world, the world of private investment, that create more room for growth and expansion, that allow management to focus with greater intensity on the day-to-day business of producing better cars," Snow said. DaimlerChrysler AG said Monday it will sell 80.1 percent of the money-losing Chrysler to Cerberus. It was a stunning reversal of the $36 billion takeover by Daimler-Benz AG in 1998 that was meant to be a blissful marriage between Mercedes and Jeep and Dodge brands. The move is a huge bet for Cerberus, which has agreed to take on billions of dollars in pension and retiree health care costs at Chrysler. Cerberus has steadily been building strength in the automobile business. It led a consortium that bought a majority stake last year in General Motors Acceptance Corp., the financial arm of GM, and plans to invest in ailing auto parts giant Delphi. The prospect of a sale to a private equity firm had worried unions in the United States and Canada because of the firms' tendency to slash costs and jobs. Daimler will retain 19.9 percent of Chrysler and continue to work with it on drive systems, purchasing, sales and financial services outside North America. But it was clear that DaimlerChrysler and its chief executive Dieter Zetsche, who tried to prop up sales in the U.S. with his "Dr. Z" television commercials, had lost confidence that a combined Chrysler and Daimler could be a worldwide automotive leader. "We determined that DaimlerChrysler, as currently structured, would not provide the best" framework, Zetsche told reporters in Stuttgart, adding that "at the same time, given my experience with and commitment to Chrysler, this was a difficult task for me personally." Shareholders reacted positively. DaimlerChrysler's U.S. shares rose $2.98, or 3.77 percent, to $82 in Monday morning trading. DaimlerChrysler said the deal is likely to be completed by the third quarter and that it would reduce its overall profit by as much as $5.4 billion for 2007. Snow said that under Chrysler's leadership, the company's quality and productivity have risen and it has a variety of new products that will be well-received in the marketplace. "We're going to support those initiatives and we're going to support your plans," he said. Shareholders must approve changing the German company's name to Daimler AG. A vote will likely be scheduled this fall, the company said. The German-American automaker said an affiliate of Cerberus will hold the majority of a new Chrysler Holding LLC, while DaimlerChrysler will keep a 19.9 percent stake. Private equity firms typically use money provided by pension funds and hedge funds and wealthy private investors to acquire public companies or parts of companies and take them private, often to reorganize and later sell at a profit. But Snow said Cerberus would focus on longer-term earnings. "We don't think about the next quarter. We don't think about what analysts have to say about us. We care very much about producing long-term results for investors," he said. The United Auto Workers' endorsement of the transaction was a shift from earlier this year, when UAW President Ron Gettelfinger warned that a private equity buyer would "strip and flip" the company by selling it off in pieces. Gettelfinger, speaking on WJR-AM in Detroit, said he made a last-minute pitch to keep Chrysler with Daimler over the weekend, but when that failed, he decided to embrace the Cerberus purchase. "We did make a last-ditch effort pitch this weekend in Stuttgart with Dr. Zetsche about maintaining the status quo. That appeared to be less and less an option. He made it unequivocally clear it was no longer an option. He spent an hour and a half taking us through the entire selection process," Gettelfinger said. "We made the pitch all the way home that we wanted the Chrysler Group to stay under the Daimler umbrella but it's not there. The decision has been made, we're supportive of it." "We're going to close that past chapter. We're going to move forward." Canadian Auto Workers President Buzz Hargrove said he was assured that the collective bargaining agreement with Chrysler would be honored and that no jobs would be eliminated. Analysts said last week that Magna International founder and Chairman Frank Stronach was the likely leading bidder for Chrysler. Billionaire investor Kirk Kerkorian, who tried to take control of Chrysler in the 1990s, also has said he would make a bid, but it was apparently spurned. Zetsche announced Feb. 14 that all options were open for Chrysler, which lost $1.5 billion last year and is undergoing a restructuring plan that will eventually shed 13,000 jobs. Snow said the deal was a sign of faith in Chrysler, an iconic American brand and third-largest U.S. carmaker behind General Motors Corp. and Ford Motor Co. Norris Freeman III, 33, of Detroit, a 12-year Chrysler employee who works the line at the Warren Truck Assembly Plant, was skeptical of the move. "I don't think Cerberus is going to do us any justice. I think Kirk Kerkorian had a better interest in us. I think Cerberus is in it just for the money," he said. Cerberus also has former Vice President Dan Quayle as an adviser. David W. Thursfield, who used to run Ford in Europe, is a senior member of the operations team in Cerberus' automotive and industrial practice. And Wolfgang Bernhard, former Chrysler chief operating officer, is a newcomer to Cerberus. Last year, GM sold a majority stake in its General Motors Acceptance Corp. financing arm to a consortium of investors led by Cerberus for about $14 billion. Analysts had said buying a big stake in Chrysler would let Cerberus combine GMAC operations with Chrysler Financial. In December, Cerberus was part of a consortium of investors that said it would invest $3.4 billion in the struggling auto parts giant Delphi Corp. in exchange for new shares of Delphi stock as it emerged from Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Family has questions after man is found dead Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Copper River salmon arrive in style Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/business/7513202.html	Reuters agrees to $17.2 billion Thomson takeover offer | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Business Reuters agrees to $17.2 billion Thomson takeover offer Story Published: May 15, 2007 at 9:04 AM PDT Story Updated: May 15, 2007 at 9:04 AM PDT LONDON (AP) - Reuters agreed on Tuesday to a $17.2 billion takeover by Thomson that would vault the combined entity ahead of Bloomberg to become the world's largest financial data and news provider. The combined company will be headed by Tom Glocer, 47, who is now chief executive of Reuters, and he will be responsible for finding the $500 million in savings the companies are promising to deliver by the third year. Reuters trustees, who could have vetoed any takeover, endorsed the deal, which is still subject to approval by shareholders and regulators. "We believe that the formation of Thomson-Reuters marks a watershed in the global information business, and will underpin the strength, integrity and sustainability of Reuters as a global leader in news and financial information for many years to come," said Pehr Gyllenhammar, chairman of the trustees. Holders of each Reuters Group PLC share traded in London will be paid the equivalent of about $7 in cash and 0.16 shares of Thomson Corp.'s Toronto-listed stock. The value of the deal is calculated based on Thomson's closing share price of 48.46 Canadian dollars on the Toronto Stock Exchange on May 3, the day before the companies announced they were exploring a combination. Shareholders of Thomson, formally based in Toronto but with its operational head office in Stamford, Conn., would control more than three quarters of the shares in the new company, Thomson-Reuters PLC. Woodbridge, the Thomson family holding company which controls roughly 70 percent of Thomson, will own approximately 53 percent of the combined business. Other Thomson shareholders will have 23 percent and Reuters shareholders 24 percent, the companies said. Reuters and Thomson compete with Bloomberg LP, founded by New York Mayor Mike Bloomberg, in providing data terminals to the world's major banks and brokerages. Reuters was the market leader for years before steadily losing ground to Bloomberg. An April report from Inside Market Data Reference said Bloomberg has a 33 percent share of the market, with Reuters holding 23 percent and Thomson 11 percent. "For Thomson, it is a defining moment in our journey to become the information provider of choice for the world's business and professional markets," said Richard J. Harrington, Thomson's president and chief executive. Harrington, 60, will step down when the merger is completed. London-based Reuters was born in 1851 when Paul Julius Reuter started sending stock market quotations between London and Paris via the new Calais-Dover cable. Reuters shares rose 3.1 percent to 624.5 pence ($12.38) on the London Stock Exchange at midday. The merged companies will have a dual-listed structure. The renamed Thomson-Reuters will retain current listings on the Toronto Stock Exchange and on the New York Stock Exchange. It also will apply for its ordinary shares to be listed on the London Stock Exchange and intends to apply for its American Depositary Shares to be listed on Nasdaq. "The companies will be separate legal entities but will be managed and operated as if they were a single economic enterprise," the announcement said. "The boards of the two companies will be identical and the combined business will be managed by a single senior executive management team." The combined Thomson Financial unit and Reuters financial and media businesses will be called Reuters. Thomson's professional businesses - legal, tax and accounting, scientific and healthcare - will be branded as Thomson-Reuters Professional. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Family has questions after man is found dead Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Copper River salmon arrive in style Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/business/7513157.html	IRS says record number of people e-filed their tax returns | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Business IRS says record number of people e-filed their tax returns Story Published: May 15, 2007 at 9:02 AM PDT Story Updated: May 15, 2007 at 9:02 AM PDT WASHINGTON (AP) - A record 77 million taxpayers have filed their tax returns electronically this year, the Internal Revenue Service said Tuesday. The IRS also said that as of May 4, the average refund this year was $2,255, up 2.5 percent over the same time last year. More than 59 million refunds were deposited directly into savings, checking and brokerage accounts, more than 61 percent of all refunds issued. This year the IRS permitted direct deposit of refunds into as many as three separate financial accounts. The IRS said those choosing direct deposit got refunds at least a week sooner than others. The agency said that as of May 4 it had received 128 million returns and processed 114 million. Of those, 76.8 million were filed electronically - almost 55 million by tax professionals and 22 million through home computers. Taxpayers e-filing from home were up 11 percent over the same time last year. Based on current trends, the agency expects about 58 percent of all returns to be e-filed this year. The IRS said 140 million people had visited the agency's Web site to receive help and information, up from 128 million at the same time in 2006. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Family has questions after man is found dead Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Copper River salmon arrive in style Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/business/7513257.html	Fed. chairman says new regulations should not stifle innovation | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Business Fed. chairman says new regulations should not stifle innovation Story Published: May 15, 2007 at 9:07 AM PDT Story Updated: May 15, 2007 at 9:07 AM PDT WASHINGTON (AP) - The best way to regulate a world of increasingly complex financial instruments is to pursue broad principles without stifling innovation, Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke said Tuesday. Bernanke said that in responding to the challenges of rapidly evolving financial markets, regulators need to keep in mind the economic advantages that hedge funds and investments such as credit derivatives provide by helping to diversify risks. "We should always keep in view the enormous economic benefits that flow from a healthy and innovative financial sector," he said in remarks prepared for a financial markets conference in Sea Island, Ga. In his speech, Bernanke specifically addressed the growth of credit derivatives, financial instruments that derive their value from the bond market. Billionaire investor Warren Buffett has warned of the risks of such investments, calling them "financial weapons of mass destruction." Recently, concerns have been raised about one segment of this market, investments backed by subprime mortgages, because of a sharp rise in mortgage defaults. Bernanke cautioned against over-regulation of specific problems, saying that it was important to allow financial markets the room to innovate. He made a similar argument in a speech last month concerning hedge funds, saying that a market-based approach was the best way to regulate the trillion-dollar hedge fund industry. "The increasing sophistication and depth of financial markets promote economic growth by allocating capital where it can be most productive," Bernanke said in the speech Tuesday, copies of which were distributed in Washington. "When proposing or implementing regulation, we must seek to preserve the benefits of financial innovation even as we address the risks that may accompany that innovation," he said. Bernanke did not specify any area where he thought increased regulation was necessary. Rather, he laid out certain principles that regulators should follow in considering new rules. "We should strive to implement a regulatory regime that is principles-based, risk-focused and consistently applied," he said. Bernanke's comments were delivered by satellite to the conference, which was sponsored by the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta. In his remarks, he reminded the group that at last year's conference he had cautioned against adoption of a proposal that would have sought to better regulate hedge funds by developing a database of the holdings of various hedge funds. He said he still held the view that creating such a database would be extremely difficult given how quickly hedge funds can change their holdings. He also said the effort by regulators to create such an information base would give investors in hedge funds a false sense of security that regulators had been able to reduce the risks they were facing. Bernanke is a member of the President's Working Group, formed after the 1987 stock market crash to provide recommendations on ways to improve market regulation. That group recently concluded that what the hedge fund industry needed was increased vigilance on the part of investors rather than new government rules. Critics, however, contend that large hedge fund failures, such as the collapse last fall of Amaranth Advisors, point to the need for tighter government regulations. In his speech, Bernanke said it was appropriate for the conference to have focused on hedge funds last year and to be examining credit derivatives this year. "The increasing prominence of hedge funds and the growth of the market for credit derivatives are both aspects of the remarkable wave of financial innovation that we have seen in recent years," he said. Bernanke said that it was important for the Fed and other regulators to resist the calls to develop rules that are too specific. "We should strive to develop common, principles-based policy responses that can be applied consistently across the financial sector to meet clearly defined objectives," he said. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Family has questions after man is found dead Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Copper River salmon arrive in style Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/business/7512942.html	Boeing 787 taking shape as wings arrive in Everett | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Business Boeing 787 taking shape as wings arrive in Everett The massive wings for the first Boeing 787 "Dreamliner" are unloaded from a super freighter "Dreamlifter" aircraft after a flight from Japan. Story Published: May 15, 2007 at 8:46 AM PDT Story Updated: May 15, 2007 at 10:18 AM PDT EVERETT, Wash. (AP) - The wings for the first Boeing 787 arrived on a super-freighter flight from Japan early Tuesday morning at the factory in Everett. The factory needs one more major component -- a central fuselage section from Charleston, South Carolina. Then workers can assemble the plane that is scheduled to roll out July 8th. The plane is scheduled to make its first flight in August and be delivered in May of next year. Japanese industries are building more than a third of the 787. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Family has questions after man is found dead Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Copper River salmon arrive in style Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/business	KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Business State jobless rate dips to record low 4.4 percent in April Washington's unemployment rate dipped to a record 4.4 percent last month, the lowest since comparable record-keeping more than three decades ago, the state Employment Security Department announced Tuesday. Fed. chairman says new regulations should not stifle innovation The best way to regulate a world of increasingly complex financial instruments is to pursue broad principles without stifling innovation, Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke said Tuesday. Consumer inflation moderates slightly in April despite surging gasoline prices Consumer prices rose by 0.4 percent last month following a 0.6 percent jump in March, the Labor Department reported Tuesday. The April increase was slightly lower than expected although gasoline pump prices jumped by 4.7 percent after an even bigger 10.6 percent March advance. Reuters agrees to $17.2 billion Thomson takeover offer IRS says record number of people e-filed their tax returns Wal-Mart first-quarter earnings rise 8 percent Boeing 787 taking shape as wings arrive in Everett Cerberus to pay $7.4 billion for 80.1 percent of Chrysler Younger adults lead way as growing numbers of households lack landline phones Supreme Court orders review of $82.6 million award in Ford Explorer rollover Wal-Mart to display Skype phone gear Merck selling generics unit for $6.6B Splenda settles with Equal over claims Russia strikes natural gas pipeline deal Consumer confidence stuck in rut amid worries about gas prices Guilty pleas entered in giant Wall Street insider-trading ring Alabama chosen by ThyssenKrupp for $4.2 billion steel plant Hershey cuts 2007 earnings estimate Little-known company purchases remaining Yukos assets Rates on 30-year mortgages edge lower for third time in last 4 weeks Northwest cherry growers expect another large harvest EADS swings to 1st-quarter loss, dragged down by Airbus Retailers post weak April sales JetBlue names COO Barger to replace founder Neeleman as CEO Viacom's first-quarter earnings down 36 percent Clearwire loss widens in first quarter since IPO Senate committee approves fuel economy increase to 35 mpg Microsoft signs Web video deals with Volvo, Chivas Brothers Cisco shares fall despite big third-quarter profit Grapeseed oil company uses recycled product as biofuel for its car Grasso wins round in NYSE pay fight Amazon settles patent suits with IBM 'Cocaine' drink is pulled from shelves Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Family has questions after man is found dead Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Copper River salmon arrive in style Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/business/7495542.html	Younger adults lead way as growing numbers of households lack landline phones | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Business Younger adults lead way as growing numbers of households lack landline phones Story Published: May 14, 2007 at 9:00 AM PDT Story Updated: May 14, 2007 at 9:01 AM PDT WASHINGTON (AP) - More than a quarter of young adults have only cell phones, making them the leading edge of a strengthening move away from traditional landline telephones, a federal survey showed Monday. Overall, the portion of adults with only cell phones grew by more than 2 percentage points in the latter half of last year to nearly 12 percent, an expansion rate that began in the first part of 2006 and was double earlier rates of growth. One in four people aged 18 to 24 had only cell phones, as did 29 percent of those aged 25 to 29, the study showed. The percentages declined with age after that, with 2 percent of those 65 or over having only cell phones. The trend away from landline phones affects the telephone industry, 911 emergency service providers, and government and private polling organizations, which rely heavily on random calls to households with wired telephones. "All those wireless adults are missed" in those marketing and opinion surveys, said Stephen Blumberg, senior scientist at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and an author of the report. That's a potential problem because people with only cell phones tend to be disproportionately young and have lower incomes. Studies have so far concluded that cell-phone-only users are not a large or diverse enough group to affect the accuracy of broad polls that omit them. The data, from the CDC's National Health Interview Survey, also found: -15 percent of Hispanic adults, 13 percent of black adults, 12 percent of Asians and 11 percent of whites had only cell phones; -22 percent of the poorest adults had only cell phones, double the rate for those who are not poor; -13 percent of males and 11 percent of females had cell phones only; -Nearly 2 percent of adults had no phone at all. The figures were based on interviews with people in 13,056 households from June through December last year. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Family has questions after man is found dead Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Copper River salmon arrive in style Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/business/7513242.html	Consumer inflation moderates slightly in April despite surging gasoline prices | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Business Consumer inflation moderates slightly in April despite surging gasoline prices Story Published: May 15, 2007 at 9:06 AM PDT Story Updated: May 15, 2007 at 9:06 AM PDT WASHINGTON (AP) - Consumer inflation eased a bit in April even though gasoline prices surged for a second straight month. Consumer prices rose by 0.4 percent last month following a 0.6 percent jump in March, the Labor Department reported Tuesday. The April increase was slightly lower than expected although gasoline pump prices jumped by 4.7 percent after an even bigger 10.6 percent March advance. Core inflation, which excludes volatile food and energy costs, edged up just 0.2 percent as falling prices for clothing, airline tickets and tobacco products helped restrain underlying inflation. The nationwide average price for gasoline has surged to a record $3.07 per gallon, according to the latest Lundberg Survey, surpassing the old mark of $3.03 per gallon set last August. The big price spike has been blamed on unexpected refinery shut downs that have crimped supplies. Analysts are warning that consumers can expect further price increases. Through the first four months of this year, consumer inflation is rising at an annual rate of 4.8 percent, almost double the 2.5 percent increase for all of 2006. The acceleration has occurred in large part because of higher costs for food and energy. However, excluding energy and food, core inflation is up at an annual rate of just 2.2 percent through April, an improvement from the 2.6 percent rise in core prices for all of 2006. That improvement is certain to be welcomed at the Federal Reserve, where policymakers are hoping that their campaign to restrain inflationary pressures is beginning to show results. After pushing rates up over a two-year period, the Fed has left rates unchanged for the past 11 months, watching to see whether the slowing economy will reduce price pressures. Energy prices have been rising at an annual rate of 25.3 percent so far this year compared with a gain of 2.9 percent for all of 2006, when a big spike in energy costs in the first part of the year was partially reversed in the fall and early winter. Food costs, which have been pushed higher by the increased demand for corn to use in ethanol production, were up at an annual rate of 6.7 percent in the first four months of this year compared with a 2.1 percent rise for all of 2006. For April, food costs rose by 0.4 percent with big increases for beef, poultry and vegetables offsetting declines in the price of pork and fruits. The 0.2 percent rise in prices excluding food and energy followed a 0.1 percent increase in March. Over the past 12 months, core prices are up 2.3 percent, still above the Fed's preferred comfort zone of 1 percent to 2 percent. Many economists believe the Fed will keep rates unchanged until core inflation falls further. They believe the slowing economy will bring about lower inflation but not without a rise in unemployment, which they expect will climb from the current 4.5 percent to 5 percent by the end of the year. The faster pace of inflation so far this year is being felt in workers' paychecks. The Labor Department said that average weekly earnings for non-supervisory workers fell by 0.5 percent in April, compared to March, after adjusting for inflation. Inflation-adjusted wages were up 0.9 percent in April compared with 12 months ago, the smallest year-over-year gain in eight months. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Family has questions after man is found dead Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Copper River salmon arrive in style Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/business/7513132.html	Wal-Mart first-quarter earnings rise 8 percent | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Business Wal-Mart first-quarter earnings rise 8 percent Story Published: May 15, 2007 at 9:00 AM PDT Story Updated: May 15, 2007 at 9:00 AM PDT BENTONVILLE, Ark. (AP) - Wal-Mart Stores Inc. warned Tuesday that its profits in the current quarter could fall short of expectations after reporting an 8 percent gain in first-quarter earnings amid cost-cutting and strength in its warehouse clubs and international businesses. The company continued to struggle with its namesake discount business. The tepid outlook from Wal-Mart - considered a barometer for the retail industry - could serve as a warning bell that rising gasoline prices and a weakening housing market will continue to eat away at consumer spending in the coming months. The announcement came as Home Depot Inc. reported a 29.5 percent drop in first-quarter profits on a slight increase in sales. For its first quarter, Wal-Mart said it earned $2.83 billion, or 68 cents per share, compared with $2.62 billion, or 64 cents per share, in the previous year quarter. Wal-Mart had revenue of $86.41 billion in the three months ending April 30, up from $79.67 billion in the year prior. Analysts surveyed by Thomson Financial expected first-quarter earnings per share of 68 cents and revenues of $86.9 billion. Wal-Mart's shares fell 14 cents to $47.70 in early trading Tuesday. "Quite honestly, we're not satisfied with our overall performance, Wal-Mart President and Chief Executive Lee Scott said during a pre-recorded conference call. Same-store sales rose 0.6 percent in the first quarter at Wal-Mart's U.S. stores, with its Sam's Club warehouse stores accounting for all of the gain. Wal-Mart's namesake stores slipped 0.1 percent in the quarter, while Sam's Club warehouse stores rose 4.7 percent. Same-store sales ,or sales at stores opened at least a year, is a key gauge of retailer health because it measures growth at established locations open at least a year rather than at newly opened ones. For the current quarter, Wal-Mart projected same-store sales to be up a modest 1 percent to 2 percent. Scott said the company can perform better. "You will see us be more committed than ever to price leadership," Scott said. Sales and profits for the quarter were "not where we would have expected to be nor where we believe we should be." Bright spots include Sam's Club, which now has seven consecutive quarters in which profits grew faster than sales, Scott said. Wal-Mart's international division, the fastest growing part of the company, accounted for 23 percent of sales for the quarter. The company reacted to inflation in Mexico by lowering prices of tortillas and other staples, which Scott said was an investment in customer loyalty. In Great Britain, Scott said Wal-Mart's Asda chain added 1.5 million customers since mid-2005, half in stores that were already open. Wal-Mart said it expects second-quarter profits to be within a range of 75 cents to 79 cents per share. Analysts surveyed by Thomson Financial expect a consensus 79 cents per share for the period. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Family has questions after man is found dead Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Copper River salmon arrive in style Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/business/7495422.html	Supreme Court orders review of $82.6 million award in Ford Explorer rollover | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Business Supreme Court orders review of $82.6 million award in Ford Explorer rollover Story Published: May 14, 2007 at 8:56 AM PDT Story Updated: May 14, 2007 at 8:56 AM PDT WASHINGTON (AP) - The Supreme Court ordered a state appeals court Monday to review a decision giving $82.6 million to a woman who was paralyzed after her Ford Explorer rolled over. The justices want a California appeals court to determine if its ruling is in line with the Supreme Court decision overturning a $79.5 punitive damages award in a tobacco case earlier this year. The court said then that a jury may punish a defendant only for the harm done to the person who is suing, not to others whose cases were not before it. Benetta Buell-Wilson, 51, was driving on an interstate east of San Diego in January 2002 when she swerved to avoid a metal object and lost control of her 1997 Explorer, which rolled 4 1/2 times. The mother of two was paralyzed from the waist down when the roof collapsed on her neck, severing her spine. In June 2004 a San Diego jury found that her Explorer was defective because of instability and a weak roof. A jury initially awarded $369 million, including $246 million in punitive damages. It was the first damage award against the Ford Motor Company involving a rollover of an Explorer and one of the biggest personal-injury awards ever against an automaker. Courts twice cut the size of the award. The $82.6 million approved by a California state appeals court now includes punitive damages of $55 million. Ford's legal team, led by former Solicitor General Theodore Olson, asked the court to take the case because it said Ford was being punished even though the design of the vehicle met federal safety standards. The case is Ford Motor Company v. Buell-Wilson, 06-1068. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Family has questions after man is found dead Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Copper River salmon arrive in style Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/business/7515357.html	State jobless rate dips to record low 4.4 percent in April | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Business State jobless rate dips to record low 4.4 percent in April Story Published: May 15, 2007 at 11:13 AM PDT Story Updated: May 15, 2007 at 12:24 PM PDT OLYMPIA, Wash. (AP) - Washington's unemployment rate dipped to a record 4.4 percent last month, the lowest since comparable record-keeping more than three decades ago, the state Employment Security Department announced Tuesday. The seasonally adjusted rate was an improvement from the previous month's record low of 4.6 percent. In a prepared statement, Gov. Chris Gregoire said it was "even further proof that our state economy is one of the strongest and fastest-growing in the nation." Economists typically define anything below 5 percent as full employment. The state's employers added about 2,900 net new jobs last month, with the largest growth in professional and business services, with 2,100 new jobs. Construction saw an increase of 900, and other groups, like membership organizations, grew by 500. Manufacturing was down by 900 jobs, financial activities decreased by 100, and government lost 100. More than 64,400 net new jobs were created in Washington from April 2006 to April 2007. Nonfarm jobs increased by 2.3 percent, compared to a national rate of 1.4 percent. The state estimates that about 145,400 people are still unemployed. The national jobless rate is 4.5 percent, a slight increase over March's 4.4 percent and below the 4.7 percent of one year ago. One year ago, Washington's rate was 4.9 percent. Unemployment rates, not seasonally adjusted, in metropolitan areas around the state: Bellingham, 4 percent; Bremerton, 4.2; Longview, 5.9; Mount Vernon-Anacortes, 4.6; Olympia, 4.2; Seattle-Bellevue-Everett, 3.6; Spokane, 4.3; Tacoma, 4.7; Tri-Cities, 5.1; Wenatchee, 5.1; and Yakima, 6.1. These labor market areas also reported: Aberdeen, 7 percent; Centralia, 6.8; Ellensburg, 4.4; Moses Lake, 5.8; Oak Harbor, 4.8; Port Angeles, 5.3; Pullman, 3.4; Shelton, 5.6; and Walla Walla, 4.7. Unemployment rates in these counties were: Adams, 5.1 percent; Asotin, 4.6; Benton, 4.6; Chelan, 5.2; Clark, 5; Columbia, 6.4; Douglas, 4.7; Ferry, 9.2; Franklin, 6.6; Garfield, 4.2; Jefferson, 4.6; King, 3.5; Klickitat, 6.9; Lincoln, 5.1; Okanogan, 6.7; Pacific, 6.6; Pend Oreille, 7; San Juan, 3.3; Skamania, 5.6; Snohomish, 3.8; Stevens, 7.3; and Wahkiakum, 6.5. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Family has questions after man is found dead Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Copper River salmon arrive in style Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
