http://www.komotv.com/news/business confidence stuck in rut amid worries about gas prices Consumer confidence was essentially stuck in a rut as worries about whether gasoline prices will move higher made people feel anxious about the economy's prospects and their own financial positions. Guilty pleas entered in giant Wall Street insider-trading ring A married couple, both lawyers, pleaded guilty to conspiracy and securities fraud Thursday in what was described as one of the biggest insider-trading operations since the 1980s, a $15 million scam that reached into some of the nation's top financial firms. Alabama chosen by ThyssenKrupp for $4.2 billion steel plant Steelmaker ThyssenKrupp AG said Friday it will build a new $4.19 billion steel plant in Alabama, which has attracted other German companies including DaimlerChrysler AG in recent years. Hershey cuts 2007 earnings estimate Little-known company purchases remaining Yukos assets Rates on 30-year mortgages edge lower for third time in last 4 weeks Northwest cherry growers expect another large harvest EADS swings to 1st-quarter loss, dragged down by Airbus Retailers post weak April sales JetBlue names COO Barger to replace founder Neeleman as CEO Viacom's first-quarter earnings down 36 percent Clearwire loss widens in first quarter since IPO Senate committee approves fuel economy increase to 35 mpg Microsoft signs Web video deals with Volvo, Chivas Brothers Cisco shares fall despite big third-quarter profit Grapeseed oil company uses recycled product as biofuel for its car Grasso wins round in NYSE pay fight Amazon settles patent suits with IBM 'Cocaine' drink is pulled from shelves Committee approves fuel economy increase Warner Music posts wider 2nd quarter loss CVS 1st quarter profits rise 24 percent Gas prices surge to record U.S. average of $3.07 per gallon Russian court convicts principal of using pirated Microsoft software Alcoa offers to buy Canada's Alcan for cash and stock worth $27 billion Buffett provides some details about his succession plan Ford to close 1 Ohio plant, shut down another for a year Survey: Gas prices reach record average Qantas Airways says takeover is finished Stocks rise for fourth straight session Analysts cynical of Microsoft-Yahoo deal Starbucks earnings increase 18 percent Weyerhaeuser swings to a first-quarter profit on Domtar transaction.
http://www.komotv.com/news/business/7440886.html Viacom's first-quarter earnings down 36 percent first-quarter earnings down 36 percent AM PDT NEW YORK (AP) - Viacom Inc.'s earnings fell 36 percent in the first quarter, weighed down by higher marketing expenses for movies and a restructuring charge at its MTV group, the media company reported Thursday, but the results still beat analysts' estimates. Viacom, which is controlled by media mogul Sumner Redstone and split up from CBS Corp. a year ago, earned $202.9 million, or 29 cents a share. in the three months ending March 31, down from $317.2 million, or 43 cents a share, a year earlier. In addition to MTV, Viacom also owns Paramount Pictures, DreamWorks,VH1 and BET. Excluding the after-tax cost of $35 million for the charges at MTV, the per-share earnings were equivalent to 34 cents, ahead of the 32 cents that analysts were expecting, according to Thomson Financial. Revenues grew 16 percent to $2.75 billion. Viacom's Class B non-voting shares rose 27 cents to $42.29 in early trading Thursday, close to the top of their 52-week range of $32.42 and $43. The shares are up 2.4 percent so far this year; CBS's shares are up 1.8 percent. Operating income fell 29 percent to $442.8 million from $623.5 million a year ago, weighed down by the restructuring charge at MTV Networks, and an increase of $170 million in advertising costs in the United States at Viacom's movie division. MTV Networks said in February that it was cutting 250 jobs, or about 6 percent of its work force, in an effort to cut costs and build up its businesses online and in new networks. In addition to MTV, the MTV Networks division also includes VH1, Comedy Central and Country Music Television. Viacom's movie group, which includes Paramount and DreamWorks, booked more advertising costs in the first quarter compared with the same period a year ago, particularly on "Blades of Glory," which opened at the end of the quarter, and "Disturbia," which opened just after the end of the period. Viacom didn't provide a breakdown of how much was spent marketing each movie. Viacom is currently battling with Google Inc.'s YouTube, the No. 1 video site on the Internet, claiming that the site is illegally displaying copyright-protected clips from popular Viacom-owned programs like Comedy Central's "The Daily Show with Jon Stewart" and Nickelodeon's "SpongeBob SquarePants." Google says YouTube complies with copyright laws and takes down any material flagged by copyright owners as being unauthorized. On a conference call with analysts, Viacom CEO Philippe Dauman reaffirmed the company's goal of achieving $500 million in revenues from digital businesses this year. 
http://www.komotv.com/news/business/7440931.html JetBlue names COO Barger to replace founder Neeleman as CEO names COO Barger to replace founder Neeleman as CEO AM PDT NEW YORK (AP) - JetBlue Airways Corp. replaced founder David Neeleman as CEO less than three months after operating snafus essentially shut down the carrier for days and frayed relations with customers. The low-fare airline on Thursday appointed Chief Operating Officer Dave Barger as its new chief executive, effective immediately. Neeleman had been chief executive since 1998 and will retain his role as chairman. The move comes after storms on Valentine's Day and St. Patrick's Day essentially shut JetBlue down, forcing the cancellation of nearly 1,700 flights and stranding thousands of travelers throughout the Northeast. To prevent a recurrence, JetBlue drafted a "customer bill of rights," the gist of which is that the company now issues vouchers to some customers who experience delays. The canceled flights and vouchers cost JetBlue $41 million, contributing to the company's first quarter loss of $22 million, or 12 cents a share. That was an improvement over the year-ago quarter, but was less than analysts had originally expected. Last month, JetBlue lowered expectations for the rest of the year. In a statement, Neeleman characterized the change as "a natural evolution" of JetBlue's leadership structure. Barger, 49, will retain his role as president. He joined JetBlue as president and chief operating officer shortly after Neeleman founded the airline in 1998. Shares of the airline, which operates more than 575 flights daily to 52 destinations, jumped 54 cents, or 5.1 percent, to $10.94 in morning trading. The stock is off 35 percent since mid-January, when it hit an intraday high of $17.02. 
http://www.komotv.com/news/business/7440971.html Retailers post weak April sales post weak April sales AM PDT NEW YORK (AP) - Rising gasoline prices and the slumping housing market kept consumers out of stores last month, leaving many of the nation's merchants with disappointing sales results. As retailers released their April sales figures Thursday, weak performers included Wal-Mart Stores Inc., which recorded a rare drop in business, as well as J.C. Penney Co. and Federated Department Stores Inc. "Consumers are feeling pressured by higher gasoline prices and a sluggish housing market, particularly low and middle income consumers," said Ken Perkins, president of RetailMetrics LLC, a research company in Swampscott, Mass. Analysts had already expected last month to be weak after an early Easter motivated many consumers to do their holiday shopping in March, siphoning away part of April's business. But sales were much softer than expected, raising concerns that retailers will also see disappointing results in the months ahead. Perkins and other analysts say they will be closely watching how May fares since the month will provide a better indication of the health of the consumer. Wal-Mart reported a 3.5 percent decline in same-store sales, or sales at stores open at least a year. Same-store sales are considered the best indicator of a retailer's performance. Analysts surveyed by Thomson Financial had expected a 1.1 percent decrease. Wal-Mart warned last month it expected same-store sales in April to be anywhere from unchanged to down 2 percent, but business was much weaker because of disappointing apparel and home goods sales at its Wal-Mart discount chain. Same-store sales at the discount stores were down 4.6 percent, while at the Sam's Club warehouse club division, same-store sales rose 2.5 percent. The last time Wal-Mart reported a drop in same-store sales was last November,when the retailer posted a 0.1 percent decrease. Wal-Mart said the slowing economy was a big factor in its sluggish performance. It noted that recent surveys of discount store shoppers show that consumers are increasingly concerned about rising gas prices, which are now averaging over $3 a gallon nationwide. Wal-Mart also blamed its performance on cold weather and the earlier Easter. It also said product recalls by dog and cat food manufacturers contributed to a slowdown in pet supply sales during April. The world's largest retailer said it expects May same-store sales to rise 1 percent to 2 percent. Federated, which operates Macy's and Bloomingdale's, posted a 2.2 percent decline in same-store sales, while analysts forecast a 1.7 percent gain. Penney said its same-store sales fell 2.7 percent, more than the 0.8 percent analysts expected. Costco Wholesale Corp. had a 7 percent same-store sales gain, better than the 6.3 percent estimate. Apparel retailer Bebe Stores Inc. had a 9 percent drop, worse than the 6.6 percent analysts forecast. Wet Seal had a 9.6 percent decline, more than the 8.3 percent estimate. Gadget retailer Sharper Image Inc., which has been languishing for months, suffered an 11 percent drop in same-store sales. Still, the results were better than the 25 percent decrease analysts expected. 
http://www.komotv.com/news/business/7441041.html EADS swings to 1st-quarter loss, dragged down by Airbus swings to 1st-quarter loss, dragged down by Airbus AM PDT PARIS (AP) - European Aeronautic Defence & Space Co. NV said Thursday it swung to a loss in the first quarter, dragged down by its commercial aircraft division Airbus, which has been plagued by a weak dollar and industrial problems. The company reported a first-quarter net loss of 10 million euros ($13.54 million), after a net profit of 522 million euros a year earlier. EADS said it had been affected by the weak dollar, charges related to a new restructuring plan for Airbus and exceptional costs related to the A380 superjumbo program, all of which eroded profit margins. The loss was smaller than the average estimate of 273 million euros ($369.51 million) of eight analysts polled by Dow Jones Newswires. Earnings before interest, tax and other expenses plunged to 89 million euros ($120 million) from 791 million euros in the first three months of 2006. Revenue for the first quarter was roughly stable at 9 billion euros ($12.18 billion), from 9.1 billion euros a year before. EADS Chief Financial Officer Hans Peter Ring told shareholders last week that the Airbus unit is expected to post another hefty loss this year but could return to profitability in 2008. In its statement, EADS reaffirmed its full-year earnings guidance that group earnings before interest and taxes, or EBIT, will remain stable while revenue should decrease less than 10 percent, assuming a 1.30 euro-dollar exchange rate. The company had sales in 2006 of 39.43 billion euros ($53.37 billion). To improve its profitability and increase its performance against Boeing Co., Airbus has launched a cost-cutting program known as Power8 that would slash 10,000 jobs over four years and includes the possible sale or closure of some plants. killed phone bill, text message ban signed into law turn out to greet local 'Idol' finalist.
http://www.komotv.com/news/business/7441121.html Northwest cherry growers expect another large harvest cherry growers expect another large harvest Leonel Castillo dumps a bucket of Lambert cherries into a box at the Pinedale Ranch south of Wenatchee, Wash. in this file photo from Aug. 1, 2002. AM PDT YAKIMA, Wash. (AP) - Five straight years of record crops aren't dimming Northwest cherry growers' predictions for 2007, as more acreage comes into production and volume continues to climb. Growers are estimating the 2007 crop at between 140,000 and 150,000 tons for the five-state region that includes Washington, Oregon, Idaho, Utah and Montana. Most of that is grown in Washington, where this year's crop should be about 120,000 tons, said B.J. Thurlby, president of Northwest Cherry Growers, a promotional group for growers and shippers. In 2006, Washington state cherry growers harvested an all-time high of 117,000 tons. "Our crop last year grew 20 percent over the previous record crop in 2005. We don't think we're going to grow that much this season, but we do think we'll top that again," Thurlby said. If the weather stays warm, with no extended heavy rain, growers see potential for the harvest to come in at the higher end of the range predicted for the entire region, Thurlby said. Northwest growers could face increasing competition from California, where growers are predicting a normal-size crop for the first time in years. California and the Northwest produce the bulk of the nation's sweet cherries. California growers are estimating their 2007 crop at about 60,000 tons following several down years. The past two years, the harvest was reduced by half, to about 30,000 tons, due to poor weather. California growers begin their harvest several weeks ahead of the Northwest, but the tail end of their season usually overlaps with the Northwest. "We've had some acreage increases, so we probably have a higher potential. It just remains to be seen whether that comes true," said Jim Culbertson, manager of the California Cherry Advisory Board. California growers have planted more varieties that ripen earlier in the season to avoid that competition, Culbertson said. At the same time, Northwest growers continue to plant varieties that ripen later to keep cherries on retail shelves well into August. "All of that planting, or I'd say 90 percent of it, is post-Fourth of July cherries, late-season cherries," Thurlby said. "The great message to consumers is that cherries are now available until the middle of August, where just two or three years ago, they would be done by the third week of July." Ron Walter, who grows cherries on 10 acres in north-central Washington's Squilchuck Valley, isn't worried about the effects of a strong California crop - it might just whet consumers' appetites for sweet cherries. "They'll probably overlap the start of the Washington crop a few days to a week," Walter said. "But if they put good quality fruit on the market, then the retailers and the consumers are usually there for Washington cherries, too." 
http://www.komotv.com/news/business/7448801.html Rates on 30-year mortgages edge lower for third time in last 4 weeks on 30-year mortgages edge lower for third time in last 4 weeks PM PM PDT WASHINGTON (AP) - Rates on 30-year mortgages edged lower for the third week out of the past four, reflecting further evidence that slower economic growth will help keep inflation in check. Mortgage giant Freddie Mac reported Thursday that 30-year, fixed-rate mortgages averaged 6.15 percent nationwide this week, down slightly from 6.16 percent last week. The low for the year was 6.14 percent in early March. Rates have fallen in three of the past four weeks with the latest decline attributed to a weaker-than-expected jobs report which showed just 88,000 jobs were created in April. "Low employment growth in April - the slowest pace since November 2004 - and downward revisions to both February and March job growth tempered market concerns of future increases in the rate of inflation," said Frank Nothaft, chief economist at Freddie Mac. The Federal Reserve on Wednesday decided to keep a key interest rate unchanged as Fed officials continued to watch to make sure that the economic slowdown that is occurring will be enough to lower inflation pressures. Mortgage rates have been relatively stable over the past four months with the 30-year fluctuating in a narrow range that saw it go as high as 6.34 percent in early February and as low as 6.14 percent for the first two weeks in March. Rates on 15-year, fixed-rate mortgages, a popular choice for refinancing, were unchanged at 5.87 percent this week, the same as last week. Five-year adjustable-rate mortgages averaged 5.89 percent this week, up slightly from 5.87 percent last week. One-year adjustable rate mortgages showed the biggest movement, rising to 5.48 percent, compared to 5.42 percent last week. The mortgage rates do not include add-on fees known as points. Thirty-year and 15-year mortgages both carried a nationwide average fee of 0.5 point. Five-year adjustable-rate mortgages carried a 0.6 point and one-year ARMs carried an average fee of 0.7 point. A year ago, rates on 30-year mortgages stood at 6.58 percent while 15-year mortgages were at 6.17 percent. Five-year adjustable-rate mortgages averaged 6.22 percent and one-year adjustable-rate mortgages were at 5.62 percent. 
http://www.komotv.com/news/business/7461897.html Little-known company purchases remaining Yukos assets company purchases remaining Yukos assets Headquarters of Russian oil gaint Yukos seen in Moscow, Thursday, May 10, 2007. AM PDT MOSCOW (AP) - A little-known Russian company, OOO Prana, on Friday bought the last remaining assets of the bankrupt Yukos oil company, including its headquarters building, for 100.092 billion rubles ($3.87 billion), beating out Russian state oil company Rosneft. Once Russia's largest oil producer and regarded as one of the country's best-run and most transparent enterprises, Yukos was dismantled in a series of legal actions that some observers saw as political revenge by the Kremlin. Prana outbid state-controlled oil company OAO Rosneft in an auction that exceeded the opening price by more than fourfold. The starting price was 22 billion rubles ($852 million), which had been seen as a reasonable price for the bundle of assets that included the 22-story headquarters building in downtown Moscow and an array of subsidiary operations. Yukos was driven into bankruptcy by back tax bills of more than $30 billion, imposed in legal actions that came as former owner Mikhail Khodorkovsky was arrested, convicted of fraud and tax evasion and sentenced to eight years in prison. Before his arrest, Khodorkovsky was estimated by Forbes magazine to be the richest man in Russia with a fortune worth $15 billion. Khodorkovsky had funded opposition political parties and had political ambitions. As little as three years ago, Rosneft was something of an underachiever among Russia's oil companies - little more than a loose bundle of assets that hadn't been privatized in the post-Soviet economic restructuring. But with its purchase of Yukos production units, it is now Russia's largest oil producer, with a capacity equivalent to that of Nigeria. Rosneft obtained its first Yukos unit in 2004, from an apparent shell company that had bought it at auction. Friday's auction led to speculation over whether some analogous deal may be in the works, given the obscurity of Prana. Bankruptcy organizers said they had no information on the company's affiliations. "Few could have expected the price to rise so high. We hope that all obligations taken on by the winner will be met," said Nikolai Lashkevich, a spokesman for the Yukos bankruptcy supervisor. 
http://www.komotv.com/news/business/7461947.html Hershey cuts 2007 earnings estimate cuts 2007 earnings estimate AM PDT HARRISBURG, Pa. (AP) - Hershey, the nation's largest candymaker, said Thursday it will earn less in 2007 than it had originally forecast, a day after disclosing plans to close its last two plants in Canada and cut jobs from another plant in Pennsylvania. Its shares dropped more than 3 percent in morning trading. The Hershey Co. blamed a sluggish domestic business and higher dairy costs for lowering its earnings growth estimate for this year to 4 percent to 6 percent, down from the 7 percent to 9 percent range it forecast last month. It maintained its forecast of sales growth in the 3 percent to 4 percent range. The maker of Reese's, Hershey's Kisses and Ice Breakers gum has pledged to put more muscle into advertising and marketing to invigorate sales after it stumbled in late 2006. On Wednesday, the company continued to reveal more about a three-month-old restructuring plan, saying it will close plants in Dartmouth, Nova Scotia, and Montreal by the end of the year, laying off 730 workers. Another 80 to 100 workers will be laid off from a plant in Lancaster, not far from its headquarters in Hershey, the company said. The planned closure of the Canadian plants brings to six the number of plants Hershey has said it plans to shut down in the next two years as part of a broader restructuring to cut costs and improve efficiency. Hershey has already announced that it will close plants in Oakdale, Calif., Reading, Pa., Naugatuck, Conn., and Smiths Falls, Ontario, while cutting as many as 900 of the 3,000 workers at its three hometown plants in Hershey. All told, the cuts will affect nearly 3,300 workers. Hershey has said it will shift work to other domestic plants and contractors and to a new plant it is building in Monterrey, Mexico, while adding 150 jobs to a plant in Stuarts Draft, Va. When the changes are complete in 2010, one-third of Hershey's existing production lines will be eliminated, while the proportion of its manufacturing in the United States and Canada will shrink to 80 percent from 94 percent now, the company has said. Hershey shares fell $2.06, or 3.75 percent, to $52.93 Thursday. 
http://www.komotv.com/news/business/7461997.html Alabama chosen by ThyssenKrupp for $4.2 billion steel plant chosen by ThyssenKrupp for $4.2 billion steel plant A steel worker takes a sample at the blast furnace of ThyssenKrupp steel company in Duisburg, western Germany, in this Sept. 22, 2005 file photo. AM PDT FRANKFURT, Germany (AP) - Steelmaker ThyssenKrupp AG said Friday it will build a new $4.19 billion steel plant in Alabama, which has attracted other German companies including DaimlerChrysler AG in recent years. The plant - scheduled to open in 2010 and employ as many as 2,700 workers when fully operational - will be near Mobile. The company was lured by several tax breaks and a $400 million incentives package. The Duesseldorf-based company chose Alabama over Louisiana, which also had offered tax breaks. It would be the company's first steelmaking operation in the United States, processing carbon steel and stainless steel for automakers, electrical companies, appliance manufacturers and more. The new plant would be "an integral part of the company's plan to increase growth in the steel and stainless steel division in North America and Europe," supervisory board chairman Ekkehard Schulz said in a statement. Initially, the company had said the project would run some $2.9 billion, but raised the amount to nearly $4.2 billion because "higher capacities and extended plant configurations were shown to be feasible and economic." The company said that once the plant is up and running, it could create as many as 38,000 new jobs related to the mill, from suppliers to transportation to dining and entertainment. In a statement Friday morning, Gov. Bob Riley said a "project this size, with this amount of economic impact, comes along perhaps once in a generation." Louisiana Gov. Kathleen Blanco said it was a "tremendous honor" to be one of two finalists among 20 states that had bid for the project. "Our success with this project demonstrates Louisiana has established a stronghold in the global economy and can successfully compete for world-class projects," she said in a statement. Low-cost slabs will be supplied from a new steel mill in near Rio de Janeiro that is scheduled to start production in 2009 with a capacity of 5 million tons of slabs per year. The new North American plant will process the slabs. "This combination of cost and quality leadership can only be achieved with the new steel mill. At the same time, ThyssenKrupp is investing over 700 million euros ($946.89 million) to strengthen its German facilities and its market position in Europe," he said, adding that the special feature of the steel mill is that it will be a combined plant for flat carbon steel and stainless steel. Shares of ThyssenKrupp were down 2.3 percent in midday trading. The announcement after the company, one of the world's biggest steelmakers, said Friday that its second-quarter net profit fell 44 percent because of a multimillion-dollar fine levied by the European Union. The company, whose products range from automotive parts and elevators to slabs of steel, earned 244 million euros ($330 million) in the January-March period, compared with 441 million euros a year earlier. 
http://www.komotv.com/news/business/7462082.html Guilty pleas entered in giant Wall Street insider-trading ring pleas entered in giant Wall Street insider-trading ring Randi Collotta, right, is escorted by her attorney Michael Cornacchia as she leaves federal court in New York, Thursday May 10, 2007. AM PDT NEW YORK (AP) - A married couple, both lawyers, pleaded guilty to conspiracy and securities fraud Thursday in what was described as one of the biggest insider-trading operations since the 1980s, a $15 million scam that reached into some of the nation's top financial firms. Randi Collotta, 30, a former employee of Morgan Stanley and Co. in Manhattan, and her husband, Christopher Collotta, 34, who worked in private practice, were among 13 people who were criminally charged in the case. The couple received $9,000 in kickbacks for inside tips that generated more than $600,000 in illegal profits, Assistant U.S. Attorney Andrew Fish said. In a plea deal with the government, Randi Collotta agreed not to appeal any sentence as long it's between one and 1½ years in prison. Christopher Collotta vowed not appeal any sentence from 10 months to a year and four months in prison. U.S. District Judge Victor Marrero set sentencing for Sept. 7. They remain free on $250,000 bail each. Randi Collotta, sobbing through much of the proceeding, said she agreed in September 2004 with her husband to provide inside information she obtained in her job at Morgan Stanley to a broker, Marc Jurman of Palm Beach Garden, Fla. Jurman pleaded guilty in March to conspiracy and securities fraud. He was also named in a Securities and Exchange Commission complaint earlier this year. She said she told her husband about pending mergers and acquisitions between September 2004 and July 2005. "I knew my husband would share the information with Marc Jurman," she said. She added: "I understood my actions were wrong and I accept responsibility for what I did." Fish said Jurman shared that inside information with others, resulting in several hundred thousand dollars in illegal profits beyond $38,500 Jurman pocketed after trading securities based on what the Collotas had told him. After the plea, Randi Collotta declined to comment. Her lawyer, Kenneth Breen, said, "Randi Collotta accepted responsibility for what she did and today took a significant step in putting this behind her." Christopher Collotta, like his wife, said in court that he knew he acted illegally and accepted responsibility. He declined to comment outside court as well. His lawyer, Brian Rafferty, issued a statement outside court saying his client "deeply regrets his actions in participating in these offenses, and realizes that he will have to live with the consequences of his actions for the rest of his life." The government said the trading ring relied on insiders at Morgan Stanley and UBS Securities LLC to steal valuable secrets from the companies. It also alleged a Banc of America Securities LLC broker accepted kickbacks and that two former representatives of Bear Stearns & Co. obtained proprietary UBS information. The SEC has described the case as one of the most pervasive Wall Street insider trading rings since Ivan Boesky and Dennis Levine engaged in notorious insider-trading schemes during the 1980s. According to prosecutors, Randi Collotta was an associate in Morgan Stanley's global compliance division during the conspiracy. When they announced the case in March, prosecutors and SEC officials said the defendants included registered representatives, compliance personnel and hedge fund portfolio managers who traded hundreds of tips over five years. U.S. Attorney Michael Garcia said Wall Street professionals repeatedly traded on secrets revealed to them by insiders at UBS and Morgan Stanley. Stock upgrades and downgrades by UBS and impending corporate acquisitions involving Morgan Stanley clients were relayed before the news hit the market, authorities said. The SEC said ringleaders working the UBS side of the scheme went to great lengths to hide their actions through clandestine meetings, disposable cell phones and secret codes. At least three people have already pleaded guilty to charges in the case and await sentencing. Meanwhile, Jennifer Wang, who also worked at Morgan Stanley, and her husband, Ruben Chen, of Englishtown, N.J., were charged Thursday in an unrelated insider-trading case with conspiracy and securities fraud. Prosecutors said Wang made $600,000 on secrets she stole from Morgan Stanley while she was a vice president. She and Chen, a vice president at ING Investment Management Americas, resigned after investigations began. After a brief court appearance late Thursday, Wang and Chen were each released on $2 million bail. Chen is required to submit to electronic monitoring. A defense lawyer did not immediately return a telephone call for comment. 
http://www.komotv.com/news/business/7464677.html Consumer confidence stuck in rut amid worries about gas prices confidence stuck in rut amid worries about gas prices PM PM PDT WASHINGTON (AP) - Consumer confidence was essentially stuck in a rut as worries about whether gasoline prices will move higher made people feel anxious about the economy's prospects and their own financial positions. The RBC Cash Index found that confidence clocked in at 87.1 in May. The new figure hovered near April's reading of 85.4, a six-month low. The index is based on the results from the international polling firm Ipsos. "Consumer confidence appears to be spinning its wheels," observed Richard Yamarone, economist at Argus Research. "Although employment is mostly stable, there are many uncertainties on the horizon," Yamarone said. "Will energy prices go even higher? How is the housing slump going to play out? It is the fear of the unknowns that is coloring peoples' feelings." Those fears were a factor in the big drop in peoples' feelings about how the economy and their own finances will fare over the next six months. This expectations measure fell to 24.3, a nine-month low. In April, this gauge stood at 41.7. The report suggested that consumers had a bit of a split personality when it came to their feelings about the economy. On the one hand, consumers expressed angst about the future. On the other, they felt better about the current economic situation. A measure tracking consumers' sentiments on current conditions rose to 113.2 in May, up from 99 in April. Economists attributed this pickup to a mostly healthy - albeit slowing - jobs market and the recent string of record-high closings logged on Wall Street. "People are hanging in there. There's a sense like things are OK for now but there seems to be a gnawing feeling - can it last?" said Stuart Hoffman, chief economist at PNC Financial Services Group. "People are a bit wary of how long either the economy or their own personal finances can hold up in the face of higher gasoline prices and a weaker housing market. But so far, it is more of a fear factor than a reality show," Hoffman added. The fresh reading on consumer confidence came as President Bush continues to shoulder a low job-approval rating of 35 percent from the American public, according to a separate AP-Ipsos poll. On the economy, 41 percent approve of the president's economic stewardship, while 56 percent disapprove, the poll shows. Consumers are a major force shaping overall economic activity. Economists keep close tabs on confidence barometers for clues about peoples' willingness to spend. Economic growth slowed to a near crawl of a 1.3 percent pace in the January-to-March quarter, the weakest showing in four years. The main culprit: the housing slump, which caused some businesses to cut back on their spending. Consumers, however, showed resilience and managed to keep on spending, preventing the economy from losing even more speed. Analysts wonder how much of an appetite consumers will have in the face of surging gasoline prices. A fresh answer came Friday when the government reported that retail sales dropped 0.2 percent in April, a much weaker showing than economists were forecasting. One day earlier, big retailers also reported disappointing sales for April. The reports cast a dimmer light on the outlook for consumer spending in the months ahead. The weaker sales were blamed on shoppers having to shell out more to fill up their gas tanks, leaving them less to spend on other things. Gasoline prices climbed to $3.05 a gallon nationwide in early May, from $2.97 in late April, the Energy Department says. The reason why consumers have been holding up to the painful housing slump and gyrating energy prices has been because the job market has been strong. There have been recent signs, though, that it is weakening a bit. The government reported last week that the unemployment rate edged up to 4.5 percent as employers added just 88,000 new jobs during the month, the fewest in two and a half years. Growth in workers' paychecks also slowed. Consumers' feelings about the job market clocked dipped a bit in May to 123.8 in May, which still was a strong showing. In April, the index stood at 126.4. An index tracking people's attitudes about investing rose to 107.5 in May, from 92.3 in April. Analysts attributed the improvement to the recent string of record-high closings on Wall Street. The overall confidence index is benchmarked to a reading of 100 on January 2002, when Ipsos started the survey. The RBC consumer confidence index was based on responses from 1,000 adults surveyed Monday through Wednesday about their attitudes on personal finance and the economy. Results of the survey had a margin of sampling error of plus or minus 3 percentage points. 
