http://www.komotv.com/news/tech/7440216.html	IBM aims to make big computing greener | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Technology IBM aims to make big computing greener Story Published: May 10, 2007 at 7:55 AM PDT Story Updated: May 10, 2007 at 7:55 AM PDT In a sign that environmental sensibilities are informing business strategies, IBM Corp. is spending $1 billion to spread technologies and services that could make corporate computing centers more energy efficient. Under an initiative that IBM executives intend to announce at an event Thursday in New York, the company will reoutfit the "data centers" it operates and help its customers redo their own with multiple power-saving approaches. Data centers are huge, humming banks of servers that process transactions, serve up Web pages and store information. Because of all the electricity and air conditioning those computers need, data centers can be energy hogs. IBM - which has pledged, like several other big companies, to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions - is a leading data center operator, with more than 8 million square feet of these computing warehouses worldwide. Among the ways IBM expects to make data centers greener is through heavier use of "virtualization" technologies, which let one computer handle the operations of multiple machines. IBM also plans to deploy more "provisioning software" that increases the time that servers switch to power-saving standby mode. And it expects to launch new liquid-cooling systems that capture power in off-peak times and store it for peak use. The $1 billion is being reallocated from other purposes and is not an increase in the company's investment or capital expenditure plans. Even so, IBM is expected to call this a massive effort that reflects how energy issues are a higher priority for its customers. Forrester Research analyst Christopher Mines said the initiative reflects the fact for an increasing number of companies, environmental responsibility now is "an input to business strategy rather than just being an output." "I think this is a strong effort by IBM to pull the pieces together," Mines said. "People are aware of the environmental impact of their IT (information-technology) shop, but many of them aren't doing anything about it so far. I think that's going to change." Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Passenger killed on Interstate 5 by loose truck wheels Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/tech/7440256.html	Yahoo will close its North American online auction service | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Technology Yahoo will close its North American online auction service Story Published: May 10, 2007 at 7:57 AM PDT Story Updated: May 10, 2007 at 8:04 AM PDT SAN FRANCISCO (AP) - Yahoo Inc. will close its online auction service for North America next month, signaling the Internet powerhouse's intention to focus on more profitable endeavors as it tries to snap out of a financial malaise. The Sunnyvale-based company's auctions in the United States and Canada will end June 16, although some tools will remain accessible until Oct. 29. The closure won't affect Yahoo's auction services in Hong Kong, Singapore and Taiwan. Yahoo is retreating from North America's auction market nearly nine years after launching the service. The retrenchment coincides with Yahoo's plans to phase out its original photo service this summer in favor of a more recent offering, called Flickr, that provides more sophisticated tools for sharing pictures. The decisions to close the auction and photo services provide the latest indication that Yahoo is reassessing the value of its far-flung Web properties in an attempt to reverse a revenue slowdown that has disappointed investors. "Yahoo is continuing to align our resources to focus on core strategic priorities and deliver a superior user experience, and as part of this effort, we are re-prioritizing some products," the company said in a statement provided Wednesday. After stumbling through much of 2006, Yahoo opened the first three months of this year with an 11 percent decline in its profit. The slowdown helped spur speculation last week that Microsoft Corp. might try to buy Yahoo and forge a business partnership as both companies try to combat online search leader Google Inc. Yahoo's reshuffling mirrors some of the suggestions made last fall by one of the company's own executives, Brad Garlinghouse, who had urged the management to pull the plug on some less popular or overlapping services in a widely distributed internal memo. Garlinghouse's missive became known as the "Peanut Butter Manifesto" because it argued Yahoo had spread itself too thin. Closing the North American auction service was a "no-brainer" because Yahoo had such an insignificant market share, said Bill Tancer, general manager of global research for Hitwise, which tracks Internet trends. Yahoo attracted less than 0.2 percent of the U.S. traffic to auction sites during the week ended May 5 compared with nearly 85 percent for the longtime market leader eBay Inc., according to Hitwise. "If you can't compete in the space, it makes no sense to be there," Tancer said. By closing its auction site, Yahoo also might score points with San Jose-based eBay, one of the company's major advertising partners. Yahoo's closure of its original photo service is more risky because it actually is slightly more popular than Flickr. In the week ending May 5, the first-generation photo service attracted 6 percent of the U.S. traffic in its category compared with 4.8 percent for Flickr, Hitwise said. But Flickr tends to attract more urban consumers who tend to spend more on technology - a potentially more lucrative demographic that Yahoo apparently hopes to build upon. Yahoo is encouraging the users of its original photo service to embrace Flickr. Recognizing not everyone will want to make the leap, Yahoo is offering ways for users to transfer their photos to competing services, including Shutterfly, Photobucket, Kodak Gallery and Snapfish. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Passenger killed on Interstate 5 by loose truck wheels Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/tech	KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Technology Virtual travel: Around the world in 80 minutes With no tickets required, no money spent and no need to leave your seat, touring in the virtual world of "Second Life" holds a certain appeal for travelers willing to delve deep into the Internet to find their escape. Phoenix Mars Lander arrives at Kennedy Space Center The Phoenix Mars Lander, the product of scientists at the University of Arizona, has emerged from its cocoon at Florida's Kennedy Space Center following a flight from Colorado, where it was built. NASA study: Eastern U.S. to get hotter Future eastern United States summers look much hotter than originally predicted with daily highs about 10 degrees warmer than in recent years by the mid-2080s, a new NASA study says. Long-range eye-tracker knows when you look at ads Police use cell-tracking technology to find transplant patient in time for surgery NYC cab rides going high-tech, but many drivers opposed Yahoo will close its North American online auction service IBM aims to make big computing greener Scientists surprised by new information about Saturn's winds Scientists plan Web site to catalog all life on earth Comcast CEO shows off super fast cable modem Sprint sues to halt dial-in services Intel chief: Curbs on public satellite photos may be needed Microsoft's new Hotmail goes live Astronomers spot brightest star explosion ever Are you a technology Omnivore? Man wins NASA challenge with space glove built at kitchen table Apple seeking end to music copy restrictions in iTunes talks Dell signs on with Microsoft, Novell open-source alliance YouTube faces another legal challenge Man puts wife up for sale on the web for $50 Cyberbullies would be target of new state rules Researches crack mystery at the core of Mercury U.S. reaffirms ban on online gambling Your chance to help tell the news Scan of Egyptian mummy reveals spearlike object, younger age Obama takes control of popular MySpace page from former supporter RIM unveils newest BlackBerry: the Curve Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Passenger killed on Interstate 5 by loose truck wheels Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/tech/7417616.html	Comcast CEO shows off super fast cable modem | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Technology Comcast CEO shows off super fast cable modem Story Published: May 9, 2007 at 8:20 AM PDT Story Updated: May 9, 2007 at 8:20 AM PDT LAS VEGAS (AP) - Comcast Corp. Chief Executive Brian Roberts dazzled a cable industry audience Tuesday, showing off for the first time in public new technology that enabled a data download speed of 150 megabits per second, or roughly 25 times faster than today's standard cable modems. The cost of modems that would support the technology, called "channel bonding," is "not that dissimilar to modems today," he told The Associated Press after a demonstration at The Cable Show. It could be available "within less than a couple years," he said. The new cable technology is crucial because the industry is competing with a speedy new offering called FiOS, a TV and Internet service that Verizon Communications Inc. is selling over a new fiber-optic network. The top speed currently available through FiOS is 50 megabits per second, but the network is already capable of providing 100 Mbps and the fiber lines offer nearly unlimited potential. The technology, called DOCSIS 3.0, was developed by the cable industry's research arm, Cable Television Laboratories. It bonds together four cable lines but is capable of allowing much more capacity. The laboratory said last month it expected manufacturers to begin submitting modems for certification under the standard by the end of the year. In the presentation, ARRIS Group Inc. chief executive Robert Stanzione downloaded a 30-second, 300-megabyte television commercial in a few seconds and watched it long before a standard modem worked through an estimated download time of 16 minutes. Stanzione also downloaded the 32-volume Encyclopaedia Britannica 2007 and Merriam-Webster's visual dictionary in under four minutes, when it would have taken a standard modem three hours and 12 minutes. "If you look at what just happened, 55 million words, 100,000 articles, more than 22,000 pictures, maps and more than 400 video clips," Roberts said. "The same download on dial-up would have taken two weeks." Other cable industry executives, including Time Warner Inc. Chief Executive Richard Parsons, News Corp. President Peter Chernin and Viacom Inc. Chief Executive Philippe Dauman, cheered the demonstration during a panel afterward. Brian Dietz, spokesman for the conference host, the National Cable and Telecommunications Association, said the demonstration was the key technological advance showcased at the conference. "It's an exponential step forward and we're very excited," Roberts said. "What consumers actually do with all this speed is up to the imagination of the entrepreneurs of tomorrow." Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Passenger killed on Interstate 5 by loose truck wheels Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/tech/7440331.html	Police use cell-tracking technology to find transplant patient in time for surgery | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Technology Police use cell-tracking technology to find transplant patient in time for surgery Story Published: May 10, 2007 at 8:00 AM PDT Story Updated: May 10, 2007 at 8:19 AM PDT SLIPPERY ROCK, Pa. (AP) - It took global-positioning technology for police to track down a 10-year-old boy and get him to a hospital in time for a life-saving heart transplant. John Paul May and his mother were at a university concert when officials got word that the heart was available. Sue May had a cell phone, but the volume was off. When hospital officials couldn't reach the family, they called Pennsylvania State Police for help. The trooper working the desk sent out patrols to search for the family and eventually called communications company Sprint to track May's cell phone, then sent officers to the concert at Slippery Rock College, State Police Cpl. James Green said Thursday. At the concert, Green approached the director, giving him the cut sign. The crowd was "sitting there dumbfounded," Green said. "I don't think they knew what to expect that the State Police were there stopping a concert." "I called out Sue's name twice, and the second time she raised her hand," he said. "I announced we had to get her to Pittsburgh, to the children's hospital, that they had a heart for her little boy." John, who had coronary artery disease, underwent surgery at Children's Hospital of Pittsburgh on Saturday night. He was in critical but stable condition Thursday morning, his mother told CBS's "The Early Show." "He's doing as good as expected at this time, but that's just thanks to all the policemen," May said. "If it wasn't for them, if we didn't get this heart, who knows if my son would have survived to the next heart?" Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Passenger killed on Interstate 5 by loose truck wheels Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/tech/7440361.html	Long-range eye-tracker knows when you look at ads | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Technology Long-range eye-tracker knows when you look at ads Story Published: May 10, 2007 at 8:04 AM PDT Story Updated: May 10, 2007 at 8:04 AM PDT TORONTO (AP) - A Canadian professor has developed technology that allows advertisers to count the number of people who look at their billboards and screens. Roel Vertegaal's Xuuk eyebox2 is a $999 portable device with a camera that monitors eye movements and automatically detects when you are looking at it from up to about 35 feet away. Until now, Vertegaal says, such eye-trackers have been ineffective beyond 2 feet, required people to remain stationary and cost more than $25,000. "It can track interest for your advertisers so you can actually have a business model where you sell the ad by the eyeball," said Vertegaal, a professor at Queens University in Kingston, Ontario. The eyebox2 comes as ads increasingly appear on plasma display panels in shopping malls, restaurants and other public places. Although Internet ads can be measured by the number of hits on a Web site, it is much harder to assess the ads on plasma screens. Vertegaal, who has been working on the technology since 1994, says advertisers can now accurately measure how much attention something receives, whether on a plasma panel, a billboard, or as the result of its placement on a supermarket shelf. Whether a viewer actually makes a purchase is another matter. Vertegaal said the eyebox2 is being used by advertisers in Britain, but not in the United States yet. He recently spoke at Google Inc.'s corporate headquarters in Mountain View, Calif. Google said in a statement that it often invites interesting people, but such talks shouldn't infer any specific product direction Google is taking. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Passenger killed on Interstate 5 by loose truck wheels Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/tech/7417671.html	Scientists plan Web site to catalog all life on earth | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Technology Scientists plan Web site to catalog all life on earth Story Published: May 9, 2007 at 8:24 AM PDT Story Updated: May 10, 2007 at 12:23 AM PDT WASHINGTON (AP) - In a whale-sized project, the world's scientists plan to compile everything they know about all of Earth's 1.8 million known species and put it all on one Web site, open to everyone. The effort, called the Encyclopedia of Life, will include species descriptions, pictures, maps, videos, sound, sightings by amateurs, and links to entire genomes and scientific journal papers. Its first pages of information will be shown Wednesday in Washington where the massive effort is being announced by some of the world's leading scientific institutions and universities. The project will take about 10 years to complete. "It's an interactive zoo," said James Edwards, who will be the encyclopedia's executive director. Edwards currently helps run a global biodiversity information system. If the new encyclopedia progresses as planned, it should fill about 300 million pages, which, if lined up end-to-end, would be more than 52,000 miles long, able to stretch twice around the world at the equator. The MacArthur and Sloan foundations have given a total $12.5 million to pay for the first 2½ years of the massive effort, but it will be free and accessible to everyone. The pages can be adjusted so that they provide useful information for both a schoolchild and a research biologist alike, with an emphasis on encouraging "citizen-scientists" to add their sightings. While amateurs can contribute in clearly marked side pages, the key detail and science parts of the encyclopedia will be compiled and reviewed by experts. "It could be a very big leap in the way we do science," said Cristian Samper, acting secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, one of seven museums, universities and labs to launch the encyclopedia. "This is a project that is so big, not even the Smithsonian, could do it by itself. It is a global effort." Other institutions helping head the undertaking include Harvard University, Chicago's Field Museum, the Marine Biological Laboratory in Massachusetts, the Biodiversity Heritage Library Consortium, the Missouri Botanical Garden and the Atlas of Living Australia. The project will try to be like Mexico's Conabio compilation of all 70,000 named species in that country, but bigger, Edwards said. "They are going to do something extremely ambitious and important," said Conabio's founding director Jorge Soberon, now a professor at the University of Kansas. For more than a decade scientists have tried to compile simply a list of all species on Earth, but failed. It's been too complicated, too expensive and too cumbersome. This effort may succeed where the others have faltered because of new search engine technology - the same kind that Google uses. It will scan the Web for scientific information on the Internet and "mash up" all of the material into a file that then gets reviewed by expert curators, said Harvard's James Hanken, a steering committee member. For scientists, especially those in developing countries, this can open up new worlds of research, said Samper, who has worked as a biologist in Colombia studying South American plants. And that means more science from different areas, he said. Research papers that used to limited to northern science libraries will be easily accessible in remote Botswana, he said. "The democracy of science can't be overemphasized," he added. And the democracy will be spread to people without PhDs. Edwards said the public will be able to send information to scientists that they wouldn't have otherwise. "The public can contribute, and that makes a big difference," Soberon said. "It's one thing to be a passive spectator and another when the public can contribute." This could be crucial in tracking invasive species, Samper said. Sample demonstration pages of the polar bear show what the scientists hope to do. It offers pictures, maps, research and data on the molecular biology, genetics, reproduction diet of the polar bear. The information can be accessed at the "novice" level, which says: "Polar bears inhabit Arctic sea ice, water, islands and continental coastlines." At "expert" level, it says: Polar bears occur in low numbers throughout their range and are most abundant in shallow water areas near shore or where current or upwellings increase biological productivity near ice areas associated with open water, polynyas or lead systems." And as new species are discovered each day, they'll be added, scientists say. They estimate that Earth actually has 8 million species or so, but only one-quarter of them have been identified and named as separate species. After that, long-gone species - the fossil world - will be added. "If we don't include dinosaurs, we'll have lost 6-year-old boys," Edwards said. On the Net: Encyclopedia of Life: Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Passenger killed on Interstate 5 by loose truck wheels Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/tech/7461082.html	Phoenix Mars Lander arrives at Kennedy Space Center | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Technology Phoenix Mars Lander arrives at Kennedy Space Center Story Published: May 11, 2007 at 8:06 AM PDT Story Updated: May 11, 2007 at 8:06 AM PDT TUCSON, Ariz. (AP) - The Phoenix Mars Lander, the product of scientists at the University of Arizona, has emerged from its cocoon at Florida's Kennedy Space Center following a flight from Colorado, where it was built. The spacecraft was flown to the Shuttle Landing Facility by a U.S. Air Force C-17 cargo plane. Workers used a huge crane on Tuesday to remove the top and sides of a steel container that encased the lander during the trip, said Gary Napier, spokesman with Lockheed Martin Corp.'s Littleton, Colo., Space Systems facility. They then removed two layers of an amber-colored plastic material designed to protect the lander from possible contamination during the journey, he said. The lander will undergo final preparations and testing inside the very same clean room where many earlier Mars mission craft were housed before launch, Napier said. As the Aug. 3 launch date approaches, the Phoenix Mars Lander will be integrated with a Delta II launch vehicle. The three-stage, 130-foot-tall Delta II has 12 rockets designed to push the 1,500-pound lander out of Earth's gravity. The lander is scheduled to arrive on Mars next May. The University of Arizona is in charge of the Phoenix Mars mission, with the goal of finding evidence of water and habitable conditions near the red planet's northern polar region. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Passenger killed on Interstate 5 by loose truck wheels Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/tech/7461017.html	NASA study: Eastern U.S. to get hotter | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Technology NASA study: Eastern U.S. to get hotter Story Published: May 11, 2007 at 8:02 AM PDT Story Updated: May 11, 2007 at 8:02 AM PDT WASHINGTON (AP) - Future eastern United States summers look much hotter than originally predicted with daily highs about 10 degrees warmer than in recent years by the mid-2080s, a new NASA study says. Previous and widely used global warming computer estimates predict too many rainy days, the study says. Because drier weather is hotter, they underestimate how warm it will be east of the Mississippi River, said atmospheric scientists Barry Lynn and Leonard Druyan of Columbia University and NASA's Goddard Institute for Space Studies. "Unless we take some strong action to curtail carbon dioxide emissions, it's going to get a lot hotter," said Lynn, now a scientist at Hebrew University of Jerusalem. "It's going to be a lot more dangerous for people who are not in the best of health." The study got mixed reviews from other climate scientists, in part because the eastern United States has recently been wetter and cooler than forecast. Instead of daily summer highs in the 1990s that averaged in the low to mid 80s Fahrenheit, the eastern United States is in for daily summer highs regularly in the low to mid 90s, the study found. The study only looked at the eastern United States because that was the focus of the funding by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Lynn said. And that's just the eastern United States as a whole. For individual cities, the future looks even hotter. In the 2080s, the average summer high will probably be 102 degrees in Jacksonville, 100 degrees in Memphis, 96 degrees in Atlanta, and 91 degrees in Chicago and Washington, according to the study published in the April edition of the peer-reviewed journal Climate and posted on the NASA Web site Thursday. But every now and then a summer will be drier than normal and that means even hotter days, Lynn said. So when Lynn's computer models spit out simulated results for July 2085 the forecast temperatures sizzled past uncomfortable into painful. The study showed a map where the average high in the southeast neared 115 and pushed 100 in the northeast. Even Canada flirted with the low to mid 90s. Many politicians and climate skeptics have criticized computer models as erring on the side of predicting temperatures that are too hot and outcomes that are too apocalyptic with global warming. But Druyan said the problem is most computer models, especially when compared to their predictions of past observations, underestimate how bad global warming is. That's because they see too many rainy days, which tends to cool temperatures off, he said. There is an established link between rainy and cooler weather and hot and drier weather, said Kevin Trenberth, climate analysis chief at the National Center for Atmospheric Research. Rainy days means more clouds blocking the sun and more solar heat used to evaporate water, Druyan said. "I'm sorry for the bad news," Druyan said. "It gets worse everywhere." Trenberth said the link between dryness and heat works, but he is a little troubled by the computer modeling done by Lynn and Druyan and points out that recently the eastern United States has been wetter and cooler than expected. A top U.S. climate modeler, Jerry Mahlman, criticized the study as not matching models up correctly and "just sort of whistling in the dark a little bit." But Andrew Weaver of the University of Victoria, editor of the journal Climate but not of this study, praised the paper, saying "it makes perfect sense." He said it shows yet another "positive feedback" in global warming, where one aspect of climate change makes something else worse and it works like a loop. "The more we start to understand of the science, the more positive feedbacks we start to find," Weaver said. Weaver said looking at the map of a hotter eastern United States he can think of one thing: "I like living in Canada." Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Passenger killed on Interstate 5 by loose truck wheels Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/tech/7440291.html	NYC cab rides going high-tech, but many drivers opposed | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Technology NYC cab rides going high-tech, but many drivers opposed Story Published: May 10, 2007 at 7:59 AM PDT Story Updated: May 10, 2007 at 7:59 AM PDT NEW YORK (AP) - To taxi officials, the touch-screen monitors popping up in cabs help passengers make the most of the 13 New York minutes spent on an average ride. Passengers can pay by credit card - no more fumbling for cash and tip. As a cab heads through Greenwich Village, for example, passengers can find ads and reviews for neighborhood bars and restaurants. They can also view news stories and an electronic map of their cab's progress. The monitors are now in 200 city cabs as an experiment, but a plan to put them in all 13,000 cabs has angered many drivers. They see the technology as an expensive imposition that would cost them money and allow taxi owners and officials to check up on them. The issue has a delicate history: A 2003 experiment with touch-screen television in taxis ended within months, amid passenger antipathy. And the drivers' group leading the opposition to the monitors notes that it carried out a crippling one-day taxi strike over other issues in 1998. The Taxi and Limousine Commission is scheduled Thursday to consider an Oct. 1 deadline for all of the city's cabs to start installing the systems. "This project is nothing short of revolutionary and evolutionary for the taxi industry," Taxi and Limousine Commissioner Matthew W. Daus wrote in a recent agency newsletter. The commission called for the technology while approving a 26 percent fare increase in 2004, and the agency argues that both riders and drivers stand to benefit. The credit-card option is expected to prove popular with customers in what is now a mostly cash, $1.8 billion-a-year business. Officials say it could translate to bigger tips and more fares from riders short on cash. The global positioning system in the technology will also automate required record-keeping and give drivers crucial information about traffic or lost items. If a customer reports losing a wallet, for example, the taxi commission could send alerts to drivers in the neighborhood where the customer was dropped off to be on the lookout. The commission has approved tests of four systems and may endorse them for sale within days. Taxi owners would choose from the four systems, at a maximum three-year cost of $7,200 for equipment and various fees, although commission officials expect the cost will be far less in many cases. Vendors say advertising can offset at least some of owners' costs. Objecting drivers have raised concerns about the costs of the hardware, credit-card fees and potential working time lost if the systems need repair. Some worry that the global-positioning system will be used to track their movements, although the taxi commission says it will record only the pickup and drop-off points and fare, which drivers already are required to log. "It's trampling on our constitutional rights, and it will cut deeply into our income," said Bill Lindauer, who drove a cab for 30 years and is a member of the organizing committee of the New York Taxi Workers Alliance, a drivers' advocacy group with more than 7,000 members. The alliance held a rally in March to protest the new systems, and Lindauer said this month that the group was exploring legal and political avenues for trying to block the plan. But some drivers embrace the technology, which came free for those who offered their cabs as proving grounds. Cesar Norena, a 17-year taxi driver testing a system made by Englewood, N.J.-based TaxiTech, says passengers have made liberal use of its features, and he believes the credit-card option will boost business. "People really like it," he said, "and as a driver, I really like it, too." Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Passenger killed on Interstate 5 by loose truck wheels Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/tech/7417771.html	Scientists surprised by new information about Saturn's winds | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Technology Scientists surprised by new information about Saturn's winds Story Published: May 9, 2007 at 8:28 AM PDT Story Updated: May 9, 2007 at 8:28 AM PDT PASADENA, Calif. (AP) - Scientists say they now believe rotating eddies are driving Saturn's jet stream winds, not the other way around. The new view is based on images taken by the orbiting international Cassini spacecraft, which tracked the movement of cloud features on the ringed planet's southern hemisphere. Scientists initially believed eddies, or giant rotating storms, sapped energy out of the jets. ''Instead, what we find is that they are pumping energy into the jets,'' Cassini scientist Andrew Ingersoll of the California Institute of Technology said in a statement Tuesday. The findings will appear in a future issue of the journal Icarus. Jet streams are fast-moving currents that carry clouds in an eastern or western direction. By tracking the migration of clouds in images taken every 10 hours, scientists concluded the eddies were powering the jets because there were pointing in the same direction. ''The new information about how Saturn's jet streams are powered is exactly the opposite of what we thought prior to Cassini,'' said Anthony Del Genio of NASA's Goddard Institute for Space Studies in New York. Cassini is a project of NASA, the European Space Agency and the Italian Space Agency. The spacecraft is managed by NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory in Pasadena. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Passenger killed on Interstate 5 by loose truck wheels Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/tech/7440216.html	IBM aims to make big computing greener | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Technology IBM aims to make big computing greener Story Published: May 10, 2007 at 7:55 AM PDT Story Updated: May 10, 2007 at 7:55 AM PDT In a sign that environmental sensibilities are informing business strategies, IBM Corp. is spending $1 billion to spread technologies and services that could make corporate computing centers more energy efficient. Under an initiative that IBM executives intend to announce at an event Thursday in New York, the company will reoutfit the "data centers" it operates and help its customers redo their own with multiple power-saving approaches. Data centers are huge, humming banks of servers that process transactions, serve up Web pages and store information. Because of all the electricity and air conditioning those computers need, data centers can be energy hogs. IBM - which has pledged, like several other big companies, to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions - is a leading data center operator, with more than 8 million square feet of these computing warehouses worldwide. Among the ways IBM expects to make data centers greener is through heavier use of "virtualization" technologies, which let one computer handle the operations of multiple machines. IBM also plans to deploy more "provisioning software" that increases the time that servers switch to power-saving standby mode. And it expects to launch new liquid-cooling systems that capture power in off-peak times and store it for peak use. The $1 billion is being reallocated from other purposes and is not an increase in the company's investment or capital expenditure plans. Even so, IBM is expected to call this a massive effort that reflects how energy issues are a higher priority for its customers. Forrester Research analyst Christopher Mines said the initiative reflects the fact for an increasing number of companies, environmental responsibility now is "an input to business strategy rather than just being an output." "I think this is a strong effort by IBM to pull the pieces together," Mines said. "People are aware of the environmental impact of their IT (information-technology) shop, but many of them aren't doing anything about it so far. I think that's going to change." Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Passenger killed on Interstate 5 by loose truck wheels Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/tech/7440256.html	Yahoo will close its North American online auction service | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Technology Yahoo will close its North American online auction service Story Published: May 10, 2007 at 7:57 AM PDT Story Updated: May 10, 2007 at 8:04 AM PDT SAN FRANCISCO (AP) - Yahoo Inc. will close its online auction service for North America next month, signaling the Internet powerhouse's intention to focus on more profitable endeavors as it tries to snap out of a financial malaise. The Sunnyvale-based company's auctions in the United States and Canada will end June 16, although some tools will remain accessible until Oct. 29. The closure won't affect Yahoo's auction services in Hong Kong, Singapore and Taiwan. Yahoo is retreating from North America's auction market nearly nine years after launching the service. The retrenchment coincides with Yahoo's plans to phase out its original photo service this summer in favor of a more recent offering, called Flickr, that provides more sophisticated tools for sharing pictures. The decisions to close the auction and photo services provide the latest indication that Yahoo is reassessing the value of its far-flung Web properties in an attempt to reverse a revenue slowdown that has disappointed investors. "Yahoo is continuing to align our resources to focus on core strategic priorities and deliver a superior user experience, and as part of this effort, we are re-prioritizing some products," the company said in a statement provided Wednesday. After stumbling through much of 2006, Yahoo opened the first three months of this year with an 11 percent decline in its profit. The slowdown helped spur speculation last week that Microsoft Corp. might try to buy Yahoo and forge a business partnership as both companies try to combat online search leader Google Inc. Yahoo's reshuffling mirrors some of the suggestions made last fall by one of the company's own executives, Brad Garlinghouse, who had urged the management to pull the plug on some less popular or overlapping services in a widely distributed internal memo. Garlinghouse's missive became known as the "Peanut Butter Manifesto" because it argued Yahoo had spread itself too thin. Closing the North American auction service was a "no-brainer" because Yahoo had such an insignificant market share, said Bill Tancer, general manager of global research for Hitwise, which tracks Internet trends. Yahoo attracted less than 0.2 percent of the U.S. traffic to auction sites during the week ended May 5 compared with nearly 85 percent for the longtime market leader eBay Inc., according to Hitwise. "If you can't compete in the space, it makes no sense to be there," Tancer said. By closing its auction site, Yahoo also might score points with San Jose-based eBay, one of the company's major advertising partners. Yahoo's closure of its original photo service is more risky because it actually is slightly more popular than Flickr. In the week ending May 5, the first-generation photo service attracted 6 percent of the U.S. traffic in its category compared with 4.8 percent for Flickr, Hitwise said. But Flickr tends to attract more urban consumers who tend to spend more on technology - a potentially more lucrative demographic that Yahoo apparently hopes to build upon. Yahoo is encouraging the users of its original photo service to embrace Flickr. Recognizing not everyone will want to make the leap, Yahoo is offering ways for users to transfer their photos to competing services, including Shutterfly, Photobucket, Kodak Gallery and Snapfish. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Passenger killed on Interstate 5 by loose truck wheels Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/tech	KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Technology Virtual travel: Around the world in 80 minutes With no tickets required, no money spent and no need to leave your seat, touring in the virtual world of "Second Life" holds a certain appeal for travelers willing to delve deep into the Internet to find their escape. Phoenix Mars Lander arrives at Kennedy Space Center The Phoenix Mars Lander, the product of scientists at the University of Arizona, has emerged from its cocoon at Florida's Kennedy Space Center following a flight from Colorado, where it was built. NASA study: Eastern U.S. to get hotter Future eastern United States summers look much hotter than originally predicted with daily highs about 10 degrees warmer than in recent years by the mid-2080s, a new NASA study says. Long-range eye-tracker knows when you look at ads Police use cell-tracking technology to find transplant patient in time for surgery NYC cab rides going high-tech, but many drivers opposed Yahoo will close its North American online auction service IBM aims to make big computing greener Scientists surprised by new information about Saturn's winds Scientists plan Web site to catalog all life on earth Comcast CEO shows off super fast cable modem Sprint sues to halt dial-in services Intel chief: Curbs on public satellite photos may be needed Microsoft's new Hotmail goes live Astronomers spot brightest star explosion ever Are you a technology Omnivore? Man wins NASA challenge with space glove built at kitchen table Apple seeking end to music copy restrictions in iTunes talks Dell signs on with Microsoft, Novell open-source alliance YouTube faces another legal challenge Man puts wife up for sale on the web for $50 Cyberbullies would be target of new state rules Researches crack mystery at the core of Mercury U.S. reaffirms ban on online gambling Your chance to help tell the news Scan of Egyptian mummy reveals spearlike object, younger age Obama takes control of popular MySpace page from former supporter RIM unveils newest BlackBerry: the Curve Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Passenger killed on Interstate 5 by loose truck wheels Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/tech/7464362.html	Virtual travel: Around the world in 80 minutes | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Technology Virtual travel: Around the world in 80 minutes A screenshot provided by Linden Lab shows a scene from the "SecondLife" virtual world. Story Published: May 11, 2007 at 11:38 AM PDT Story Updated: May 11, 2007 at 11:38 AM PDT NEW YORK (AP) - The tour was a whirlwind: dancing at a beachside disco in Spain surrounded by scantily clad women, grabbing a seat at a lively pub in Dublin, flying in a small aircraft above a lush, tropical forest. Time elapsed? Less than two hours. With no tickets required, no money spent and no need to leave your seat, touring in the virtual world of "Second Life" holds a certain appeal for travelers willing to delve deep into the Internet to find their escape. Visitors need only download a free program, then log in. With the help of elaborate 3-D locales designed and built by the world's residents, tourists can watch their online embodiments - known as their avatars - lounge at the beach, dine at a romantic restaurant, or go out dancing at a crowded nightclub. Like in the real world, it's easy to get lost. Longtime inhabitants of "Second Life" are creating automated tours, opening virtual travel agencies and even publishing travel guidebooks modeled after those seen in the hands of confused tourists. Of course, there are some glaring differences between your average Frommer's guide and "The Unofficial Tourists' Guide to Second Life," published in April by St. Martin's Press. "There are sections on how to fly and how to hover," said co-writer Paul Carr. But despite such necessary adjustments, he said, "it's very much like going to a foreign country." With the ability to fly and even teleport from place to place in "Second Life," which hosted more than 1 million visitors in April, a vacation does not need to be a lengthy affair. As they travel to virtual Roman neighborhoods and fantastical worlds, visitors can interact with other participants from all over the (real) world - about three-quarters of users are from outside the U.S., mostly from Europe, Brazil, Canada, Japan and Australia. In "Second Life," even language difficulties are a thing of the past. Visitors can pick up a free translation program and carry on typed conversations with others speaking any of nine languages. For those looking to get their bearings, one option is the guided tour. Virtual travel agency Synthravels seeks to match up "tourists" and volunteer guides in 27 different online worlds, including "Second Life," "World of Warcraft" and others. On one recent tour of "Second Life," Synthravels founder Mario Gerosa led the way to a virtual representation of the Spanish island of Ibiza, stopping first at a shop selling traditional flamenco garb, then at a disco surrounded by sand and sea, where with the click of a mouse avatars can dance. Next stop is Midnight City, where a flight above the skyscrapers shows the moon's light reflected on the ocean's waves. Nearby, a simulation of a solar eclipse allows Gerosa's avatar, Frank Koolhaas, to walk right up to a blazing sun, standing on the fabric of outer space. Also on the tour: Dublin, a popular hangout among Irish users, and an island called Svarga, where a flying pod carries avatars above what appears to be a rain forest filled with huge trees and giant mushrooms. Like any guided tour in "Second Life," though, this one carried its own inherent difficulties. With both leader and led under their own power, it was quite easy to get separated. Several times, Gerosa's avatar lost some of its clothes. Like the Vatican in the height of tourist season, "Second Life" locations tend to get especially crowded when it's evening in the U.S. or Europe, and the resulting computer lag time can make navigating cumbersome. And finding a guide, in of itself, can be a challenge. The Synthravels Web site has connected guides and tourists more than 200 times, according to Gerosa, but for now it does not charge visitors or pay guides, and finding a tour depends on the sometimes-fickle interest of volunteers. But with some persistence and a willingness to just walk up to knowledgeable avatars and ask, there are guides to be found, Carr said. "There are quite a few people in 'Second Life' who will offer a tour in exchange for a few Linden dollars," said the writer, referring to the world's currency, which can be bought and sold for real-world cash. Those having a hard time securing a personal tour can turn to a number of automated options. Many site creators post vehicles near arrival points and program them to give visitors a tour of the location. By heading to The Guided Tour Company of Second Life, where automated tour vehicles ranging from hang-gliders to flying carpets are sold, avatars can access a programmed tour of tours. By clicking on the free guide, users can teleport to Icarus, where a giant dragonfly carries them to a romantic dance floor surrounded by twinkling stars. Clicking again brings them to Venice Island, where a gondola takes them to an old church adorned with Renaissance paintings and an ornate, carved pulpit. Another click leads to Cocoloco Island Resort, where a white hot-air balloon ferries them around what looks amazingly like a Caribbean resort: beach chairs, thatch cabanas, and a pool that - with a few mouse clicks - allows visitors to float on their backs for hours. At least for now, few people are charging visitors for such travel services. Even a stay at "aloft," a recently reopened virtual hotel by Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide Inc., is free. But the many entrepreneurs of "Second Life" may yet find a way to make travel pay, said Jeska Dzwigalski, a community developer with San Francisco-based Linden Research Inc., which runs the virtual world. She said she has seen the tours and "travel agencies popping up that help people and give them an experience they might not otherwise find. ... As we've grown, that became a potential business for people." Karen Hemmes has seen the demand firsthand - or at least through the eyes of her avatar, Sierra Sugar. A Gainesville, Fla., nurse by day - and a DJ at "Second Life" events by night - Hemmes received a virtual hot-air balloon as a gift, and started taking friends for rides. By the end of many of these tours meant for two, her balloon was packed to capacity with passers-by who had asked to join in, she said. Visitors can even capture a few photos or home videos to remind them of their trip. Screen grabs of a virtual Times Square and videos of avatars surfing are easily found on image-sharing sites around the Web. For those planning to go, though, Carr suggests visitors don't follow his example. "If you want to retain friends and not kill yourselves, then you need to take lots of breaks," said Carr, who holed himself up in a London apartment with co-writer Graham Pond in the final days of their research, subsisting on tinned goods and bottled water. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Passenger killed on Interstate 5 by loose truck wheels Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/tech/7440331.html	Police use cell-tracking technology to find transplant patient in time for surgery | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Technology Police use cell-tracking technology to find transplant patient in time for surgery Story Published: May 10, 2007 at 8:00 AM PDT Story Updated: May 10, 2007 at 8:19 AM PDT SLIPPERY ROCK, Pa. (AP) - It took global-positioning technology for police to track down a 10-year-old boy and get him to a hospital in time for a life-saving heart transplant. John Paul May and his mother were at a university concert when officials got word that the heart was available. Sue May had a cell phone, but the volume was off. When hospital officials couldn't reach the family, they called Pennsylvania State Police for help. The trooper working the desk sent out patrols to search for the family and eventually called communications company Sprint to track May's cell phone, then sent officers to the concert at Slippery Rock College, State Police Cpl. James Green said Thursday. At the concert, Green approached the director, giving him the cut sign. The crowd was "sitting there dumbfounded," Green said. "I don't think they knew what to expect that the State Police were there stopping a concert." "I called out Sue's name twice, and the second time she raised her hand," he said. "I announced we had to get her to Pittsburgh, to the children's hospital, that they had a heart for her little boy." John, who had coronary artery disease, underwent surgery at Children's Hospital of Pittsburgh on Saturday night. He was in critical but stable condition Thursday morning, his mother told CBS's "The Early Show." "He's doing as good as expected at this time, but that's just thanks to all the policemen," May said. "If it wasn't for them, if we didn't get this heart, who knows if my son would have survived to the next heart?" Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Passenger killed on Interstate 5 by loose truck wheels Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/tech/7440361.html	Long-range eye-tracker knows when you look at ads | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Technology Long-range eye-tracker knows when you look at ads Story Published: May 10, 2007 at 8:04 AM PDT Story Updated: May 10, 2007 at 8:04 AM PDT TORONTO (AP) - A Canadian professor has developed technology that allows advertisers to count the number of people who look at their billboards and screens. Roel Vertegaal's Xuuk eyebox2 is a $999 portable device with a camera that monitors eye movements and automatically detects when you are looking at it from up to about 35 feet away. Until now, Vertegaal says, such eye-trackers have been ineffective beyond 2 feet, required people to remain stationary and cost more than $25,000. "It can track interest for your advertisers so you can actually have a business model where you sell the ad by the eyeball," said Vertegaal, a professor at Queens University in Kingston, Ontario. The eyebox2 comes as ads increasingly appear on plasma display panels in shopping malls, restaurants and other public places. Although Internet ads can be measured by the number of hits on a Web site, it is much harder to assess the ads on plasma screens. Vertegaal, who has been working on the technology since 1994, says advertisers can now accurately measure how much attention something receives, whether on a plasma panel, a billboard, or as the result of its placement on a supermarket shelf. Whether a viewer actually makes a purchase is another matter. Vertegaal said the eyebox2 is being used by advertisers in Britain, but not in the United States yet. He recently spoke at Google Inc.'s corporate headquarters in Mountain View, Calif. Google said in a statement that it often invites interesting people, but such talks shouldn't infer any specific product direction Google is taking. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Passenger killed on Interstate 5 by loose truck wheels Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/tech/7417671.html	Scientists plan Web site to catalog all life on earth | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Technology Scientists plan Web site to catalog all life on earth Story Published: May 9, 2007 at 8:24 AM PDT Story Updated: May 10, 2007 at 12:23 AM PDT WASHINGTON (AP) - In a whale-sized project, the world's scientists plan to compile everything they know about all of Earth's 1.8 million known species and put it all on one Web site, open to everyone. The effort, called the Encyclopedia of Life, will include species descriptions, pictures, maps, videos, sound, sightings by amateurs, and links to entire genomes and scientific journal papers. Its first pages of information will be shown Wednesday in Washington where the massive effort is being announced by some of the world's leading scientific institutions and universities. The project will take about 10 years to complete. "It's an interactive zoo," said James Edwards, who will be the encyclopedia's executive director. Edwards currently helps run a global biodiversity information system. If the new encyclopedia progresses as planned, it should fill about 300 million pages, which, if lined up end-to-end, would be more than 52,000 miles long, able to stretch twice around the world at the equator. The MacArthur and Sloan foundations have given a total $12.5 million to pay for the first 2½ years of the massive effort, but it will be free and accessible to everyone. The pages can be adjusted so that they provide useful information for both a schoolchild and a research biologist alike, with an emphasis on encouraging "citizen-scientists" to add their sightings. While amateurs can contribute in clearly marked side pages, the key detail and science parts of the encyclopedia will be compiled and reviewed by experts. "It could be a very big leap in the way we do science," said Cristian Samper, acting secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, one of seven museums, universities and labs to launch the encyclopedia. "This is a project that is so big, not even the Smithsonian, could do it by itself. It is a global effort." Other institutions helping head the undertaking include Harvard University, Chicago's Field Museum, the Marine Biological Laboratory in Massachusetts, the Biodiversity Heritage Library Consortium, the Missouri Botanical Garden and the Atlas of Living Australia. The project will try to be like Mexico's Conabio compilation of all 70,000 named species in that country, but bigger, Edwards said. "They are going to do something extremely ambitious and important," said Conabio's founding director Jorge Soberon, now a professor at the University of Kansas. For more than a decade scientists have tried to compile simply a list of all species on Earth, but failed. It's been too complicated, too expensive and too cumbersome. This effort may succeed where the others have faltered because of new search engine technology - the same kind that Google uses. It will scan the Web for scientific information on the Internet and "mash up" all of the material into a file that then gets reviewed by expert curators, said Harvard's James Hanken, a steering committee member. For scientists, especially those in developing countries, this can open up new worlds of research, said Samper, who has worked as a biologist in Colombia studying South American plants. And that means more science from different areas, he said. Research papers that used to limited to northern science libraries will be easily accessible in remote Botswana, he said. "The democracy of science can't be overemphasized," he added. And the democracy will be spread to people without PhDs. Edwards said the public will be able to send information to scientists that they wouldn't have otherwise. "The public can contribute, and that makes a big difference," Soberon said. "It's one thing to be a passive spectator and another when the public can contribute." This could be crucial in tracking invasive species, Samper said. Sample demonstration pages of the polar bear show what the scientists hope to do. It offers pictures, maps, research and data on the molecular biology, genetics, reproduction diet of the polar bear. The information can be accessed at the "novice" level, which says: "Polar bears inhabit Arctic sea ice, water, islands and continental coastlines." At "expert" level, it says: Polar bears occur in low numbers throughout their range and are most abundant in shallow water areas near shore or where current or upwellings increase biological productivity near ice areas associated with open water, polynyas or lead systems." And as new species are discovered each day, they'll be added, scientists say. They estimate that Earth actually has 8 million species or so, but only one-quarter of them have been identified and named as separate species. After that, long-gone species - the fossil world - will be added. "If we don't include dinosaurs, we'll have lost 6-year-old boys," Edwards said. On the Net: Encyclopedia of Life: Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Passenger killed on Interstate 5 by loose truck wheels Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/tech/7461082.html	Phoenix Mars Lander arrives at Kennedy Space Center | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Technology Phoenix Mars Lander arrives at Kennedy Space Center Story Published: May 11, 2007 at 8:06 AM PDT Story Updated: May 11, 2007 at 8:06 AM PDT TUCSON, Ariz. (AP) - The Phoenix Mars Lander, the product of scientists at the University of Arizona, has emerged from its cocoon at Florida's Kennedy Space Center following a flight from Colorado, where it was built. The spacecraft was flown to the Shuttle Landing Facility by a U.S. Air Force C-17 cargo plane. Workers used a huge crane on Tuesday to remove the top and sides of a steel container that encased the lander during the trip, said Gary Napier, spokesman with Lockheed Martin Corp.'s Littleton, Colo., Space Systems facility. They then removed two layers of an amber-colored plastic material designed to protect the lander from possible contamination during the journey, he said. The lander will undergo final preparations and testing inside the very same clean room where many earlier Mars mission craft were housed before launch, Napier said. As the Aug. 3 launch date approaches, the Phoenix Mars Lander will be integrated with a Delta II launch vehicle. The three-stage, 130-foot-tall Delta II has 12 rockets designed to push the 1,500-pound lander out of Earth's gravity. The lander is scheduled to arrive on Mars next May. The University of Arizona is in charge of the Phoenix Mars mission, with the goal of finding evidence of water and habitable conditions near the red planet's northern polar region. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Passenger killed on Interstate 5 by loose truck wheels Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/tech/7461017.html	NASA study: Eastern U.S. to get hotter | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Technology NASA study: Eastern U.S. to get hotter Story Published: May 11, 2007 at 8:02 AM PDT Story Updated: May 11, 2007 at 8:02 AM PDT WASHINGTON (AP) - Future eastern United States summers look much hotter than originally predicted with daily highs about 10 degrees warmer than in recent years by the mid-2080s, a new NASA study says. Previous and widely used global warming computer estimates predict too many rainy days, the study says. Because drier weather is hotter, they underestimate how warm it will be east of the Mississippi River, said atmospheric scientists Barry Lynn and Leonard Druyan of Columbia University and NASA's Goddard Institute for Space Studies. "Unless we take some strong action to curtail carbon dioxide emissions, it's going to get a lot hotter," said Lynn, now a scientist at Hebrew University of Jerusalem. "It's going to be a lot more dangerous for people who are not in the best of health." The study got mixed reviews from other climate scientists, in part because the eastern United States has recently been wetter and cooler than forecast. Instead of daily summer highs in the 1990s that averaged in the low to mid 80s Fahrenheit, the eastern United States is in for daily summer highs regularly in the low to mid 90s, the study found. The study only looked at the eastern United States because that was the focus of the funding by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Lynn said. And that's just the eastern United States as a whole. For individual cities, the future looks even hotter. In the 2080s, the average summer high will probably be 102 degrees in Jacksonville, 100 degrees in Memphis, 96 degrees in Atlanta, and 91 degrees in Chicago and Washington, according to the study published in the April edition of the peer-reviewed journal Climate and posted on the NASA Web site Thursday. But every now and then a summer will be drier than normal and that means even hotter days, Lynn said. So when Lynn's computer models spit out simulated results for July 2085 the forecast temperatures sizzled past uncomfortable into painful. The study showed a map where the average high in the southeast neared 115 and pushed 100 in the northeast. Even Canada flirted with the low to mid 90s. Many politicians and climate skeptics have criticized computer models as erring on the side of predicting temperatures that are too hot and outcomes that are too apocalyptic with global warming. But Druyan said the problem is most computer models, especially when compared to their predictions of past observations, underestimate how bad global warming is. That's because they see too many rainy days, which tends to cool temperatures off, he said. There is an established link between rainy and cooler weather and hot and drier weather, said Kevin Trenberth, climate analysis chief at the National Center for Atmospheric Research. Rainy days means more clouds blocking the sun and more solar heat used to evaporate water, Druyan said. "I'm sorry for the bad news," Druyan said. "It gets worse everywhere." Trenberth said the link between dryness and heat works, but he is a little troubled by the computer modeling done by Lynn and Druyan and points out that recently the eastern United States has been wetter and cooler than expected. A top U.S. climate modeler, Jerry Mahlman, criticized the study as not matching models up correctly and "just sort of whistling in the dark a little bit." But Andrew Weaver of the University of Victoria, editor of the journal Climate but not of this study, praised the paper, saying "it makes perfect sense." He said it shows yet another "positive feedback" in global warming, where one aspect of climate change makes something else worse and it works like a loop. "The more we start to understand of the science, the more positive feedbacks we start to find," Weaver said. Weaver said looking at the map of a hotter eastern United States he can think of one thing: "I like living in Canada." Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Passenger killed on Interstate 5 by loose truck wheels Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/tech/7440291.html	NYC cab rides going high-tech, but many drivers opposed | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Technology NYC cab rides going high-tech, but many drivers opposed Story Published: May 10, 2007 at 7:59 AM PDT Story Updated: May 10, 2007 at 7:59 AM PDT NEW YORK (AP) - To taxi officials, the touch-screen monitors popping up in cabs help passengers make the most of the 13 New York minutes spent on an average ride. Passengers can pay by credit card - no more fumbling for cash and tip. As a cab heads through Greenwich Village, for example, passengers can find ads and reviews for neighborhood bars and restaurants. They can also view news stories and an electronic map of their cab's progress. The monitors are now in 200 city cabs as an experiment, but a plan to put them in all 13,000 cabs has angered many drivers. They see the technology as an expensive imposition that would cost them money and allow taxi owners and officials to check up on them. The issue has a delicate history: A 2003 experiment with touch-screen television in taxis ended within months, amid passenger antipathy. And the drivers' group leading the opposition to the monitors notes that it carried out a crippling one-day taxi strike over other issues in 1998. The Taxi and Limousine Commission is scheduled Thursday to consider an Oct. 1 deadline for all of the city's cabs to start installing the systems. "This project is nothing short of revolutionary and evolutionary for the taxi industry," Taxi and Limousine Commissioner Matthew W. Daus wrote in a recent agency newsletter. The commission called for the technology while approving a 26 percent fare increase in 2004, and the agency argues that both riders and drivers stand to benefit. The credit-card option is expected to prove popular with customers in what is now a mostly cash, $1.8 billion-a-year business. Officials say it could translate to bigger tips and more fares from riders short on cash. The global positioning system in the technology will also automate required record-keeping and give drivers crucial information about traffic or lost items. If a customer reports losing a wallet, for example, the taxi commission could send alerts to drivers in the neighborhood where the customer was dropped off to be on the lookout. The commission has approved tests of four systems and may endorse them for sale within days. Taxi owners would choose from the four systems, at a maximum three-year cost of $7,200 for equipment and various fees, although commission officials expect the cost will be far less in many cases. Vendors say advertising can offset at least some of owners' costs. Objecting drivers have raised concerns about the costs of the hardware, credit-card fees and potential working time lost if the systems need repair. Some worry that the global-positioning system will be used to track their movements, although the taxi commission says it will record only the pickup and drop-off points and fare, which drivers already are required to log. "It's trampling on our constitutional rights, and it will cut deeply into our income," said Bill Lindauer, who drove a cab for 30 years and is a member of the organizing committee of the New York Taxi Workers Alliance, a drivers' advocacy group with more than 7,000 members. The alliance held a rally in March to protest the new systems, and Lindauer said this month that the group was exploring legal and political avenues for trying to block the plan. But some drivers embrace the technology, which came free for those who offered their cabs as proving grounds. Cesar Norena, a 17-year taxi driver testing a system made by Englewood, N.J.-based TaxiTech, says passengers have made liberal use of its features, and he believes the credit-card option will boost business. "People really like it," he said, "and as a driver, I really like it, too." Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Passenger killed on Interstate 5 by loose truck wheels Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/tech/7417771.html	Scientists surprised by new information about Saturn's winds | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Technology Scientists surprised by new information about Saturn's winds Story Published: May 9, 2007 at 8:28 AM PDT Story Updated: May 9, 2007 at 8:28 AM PDT PASADENA, Calif. (AP) - Scientists say they now believe rotating eddies are driving Saturn's jet stream winds, not the other way around. The new view is based on images taken by the orbiting international Cassini spacecraft, which tracked the movement of cloud features on the ringed planet's southern hemisphere. Scientists initially believed eddies, or giant rotating storms, sapped energy out of the jets. ''Instead, what we find is that they are pumping energy into the jets,'' Cassini scientist Andrew Ingersoll of the California Institute of Technology said in a statement Tuesday. The findings will appear in a future issue of the journal Icarus. Jet streams are fast-moving currents that carry clouds in an eastern or western direction. By tracking the migration of clouds in images taken every 10 hours, scientists concluded the eddies were powering the jets because there were pointing in the same direction. ''The new information about how Saturn's jet streams are powered is exactly the opposite of what we thought prior to Cassini,'' said Anthony Del Genio of NASA's Goddard Institute for Space Studies in New York. Cassini is a project of NASA, the European Space Agency and the Italian Space Agency. The spacecraft is managed by NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory in Pasadena. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Passenger killed on Interstate 5 by loose truck wheels Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/tech/7440216.html	IBM aims to make big computing greener | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Technology IBM aims to make big computing greener Story Published: May 10, 2007 at 7:55 AM PDT Story Updated: May 10, 2007 at 7:55 AM PDT In a sign that environmental sensibilities are informing business strategies, IBM Corp. is spending $1 billion to spread technologies and services that could make corporate computing centers more energy efficient. Under an initiative that IBM executives intend to announce at an event Thursday in New York, the company will reoutfit the "data centers" it operates and help its customers redo their own with multiple power-saving approaches. Data centers are huge, humming banks of servers that process transactions, serve up Web pages and store information. Because of all the electricity and air conditioning those computers need, data centers can be energy hogs. IBM - which has pledged, like several other big companies, to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions - is a leading data center operator, with more than 8 million square feet of these computing warehouses worldwide. Among the ways IBM expects to make data centers greener is through heavier use of "virtualization" technologies, which let one computer handle the operations of multiple machines. IBM also plans to deploy more "provisioning software" that increases the time that servers switch to power-saving standby mode. And it expects to launch new liquid-cooling systems that capture power in off-peak times and store it for peak use. The $1 billion is being reallocated from other purposes and is not an increase in the company's investment or capital expenditure plans. Even so, IBM is expected to call this a massive effort that reflects how energy issues are a higher priority for its customers. Forrester Research analyst Christopher Mines said the initiative reflects the fact for an increasing number of companies, environmental responsibility now is "an input to business strategy rather than just being an output." "I think this is a strong effort by IBM to pull the pieces together," Mines said. "People are aware of the environmental impact of their IT (information-technology) shop, but many of them aren't doing anything about it so far. I think that's going to change." Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Man killed by loose truck wheels on Interstate 5 Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Fans turn out to greet local 'Idol' finalist Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/tech/7440216.html	IBM aims to make big computing greener | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Technology IBM aims to make big computing greener Story Published: May 10, 2007 at 7:55 AM PDT Story Updated: May 10, 2007 at 7:55 AM PDT In a sign that environmental sensibilities are informing business strategies, IBM Corp. is spending $1 billion to spread technologies and services that could make corporate computing centers more energy efficient. Under an initiative that IBM executives intend to announce at an event Thursday in New York, the company will reoutfit the "data centers" it operates and help its customers redo their own with multiple power-saving approaches. Data centers are huge, humming banks of servers that process transactions, serve up Web pages and store information. Because of all the electricity and air conditioning those computers need, data centers can be energy hogs. IBM - which has pledged, like several other big companies, to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions - is a leading data center operator, with more than 8 million square feet of these computing warehouses worldwide. Among the ways IBM expects to make data centers greener is through heavier use of "virtualization" technologies, which let one computer handle the operations of multiple machines. IBM also plans to deploy more "provisioning software" that increases the time that servers switch to power-saving standby mode. And it expects to launch new liquid-cooling systems that capture power in off-peak times and store it for peak use. The $1 billion is being reallocated from other purposes and is not an increase in the company's investment or capital expenditure plans. Even so, IBM is expected to call this a massive effort that reflects how energy issues are a higher priority for its customers. Forrester Research analyst Christopher Mines said the initiative reflects the fact for an increasing number of companies, environmental responsibility now is "an input to business strategy rather than just being an output." "I think this is a strong effort by IBM to pull the pieces together," Mines said. "People are aware of the environmental impact of their IT (information-technology) shop, but many of them aren't doing anything about it so far. I think that's going to change." Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Man killed by loose truck wheels on Interstate 5 Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Fans turn out to greet local 'Idol' finalist Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/tech/7440256.html	Yahoo will close its North American online auction service | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Technology Yahoo will close its North American online auction service Story Published: May 10, 2007 at 7:57 AM PDT Story Updated: May 10, 2007 at 8:04 AM PDT SAN FRANCISCO (AP) - Yahoo Inc. will close its online auction service for North America next month, signaling the Internet powerhouse's intention to focus on more profitable endeavors as it tries to snap out of a financial malaise. The Sunnyvale-based company's auctions in the United States and Canada will end June 16, although some tools will remain accessible until Oct. 29. The closure won't affect Yahoo's auction services in Hong Kong, Singapore and Taiwan. Yahoo is retreating from North America's auction market nearly nine years after launching the service. The retrenchment coincides with Yahoo's plans to phase out its original photo service this summer in favor of a more recent offering, called Flickr, that provides more sophisticated tools for sharing pictures. The decisions to close the auction and photo services provide the latest indication that Yahoo is reassessing the value of its far-flung Web properties in an attempt to reverse a revenue slowdown that has disappointed investors. "Yahoo is continuing to align our resources to focus on core strategic priorities and deliver a superior user experience, and as part of this effort, we are re-prioritizing some products," the company said in a statement provided Wednesday. After stumbling through much of 2006, Yahoo opened the first three months of this year with an 11 percent decline in its profit. The slowdown helped spur speculation last week that Microsoft Corp. might try to buy Yahoo and forge a business partnership as both companies try to combat online search leader Google Inc. Yahoo's reshuffling mirrors some of the suggestions made last fall by one of the company's own executives, Brad Garlinghouse, who had urged the management to pull the plug on some less popular or overlapping services in a widely distributed internal memo. Garlinghouse's missive became known as the "Peanut Butter Manifesto" because it argued Yahoo had spread itself too thin. Closing the North American auction service was a "no-brainer" because Yahoo had such an insignificant market share, said Bill Tancer, general manager of global research for Hitwise, which tracks Internet trends. Yahoo attracted less than 0.2 percent of the U.S. traffic to auction sites during the week ended May 5 compared with nearly 85 percent for the longtime market leader eBay Inc., according to Hitwise. "If you can't compete in the space, it makes no sense to be there," Tancer said. By closing its auction site, Yahoo also might score points with San Jose-based eBay, one of the company's major advertising partners. Yahoo's closure of its original photo service is more risky because it actually is slightly more popular than Flickr. In the week ending May 5, the first-generation photo service attracted 6 percent of the U.S. traffic in its category compared with 4.8 percent for Flickr, Hitwise said. But Flickr tends to attract more urban consumers who tend to spend more on technology - a potentially more lucrative demographic that Yahoo apparently hopes to build upon. Yahoo is encouraging the users of its original photo service to embrace Flickr. Recognizing not everyone will want to make the leap, Yahoo is offering ways for users to transfer their photos to competing services, including Shutterfly, Photobucket, Kodak Gallery and Snapfish. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Man killed by loose truck wheels on Interstate 5 Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Fans turn out to greet local 'Idol' finalist Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/tech/7440256.html	Yahoo will close its North American online auction service | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Technology Yahoo will close its North American online auction service Story Published: May 10, 2007 at 7:57 AM PDT Story Updated: May 10, 2007 at 8:04 AM PDT SAN FRANCISCO (AP) - Yahoo Inc. will close its online auction service for North America next month, signaling the Internet powerhouse's intention to focus on more profitable endeavors as it tries to snap out of a financial malaise. The Sunnyvale-based company's auctions in the United States and Canada will end June 16, although some tools will remain accessible until Oct. 29. The closure won't affect Yahoo's auction services in Hong Kong, Singapore and Taiwan. Yahoo is retreating from North America's auction market nearly nine years after launching the service. The retrenchment coincides with Yahoo's plans to phase out its original photo service this summer in favor of a more recent offering, called Flickr, that provides more sophisticated tools for sharing pictures. The decisions to close the auction and photo services provide the latest indication that Yahoo is reassessing the value of its far-flung Web properties in an attempt to reverse a revenue slowdown that has disappointed investors. "Yahoo is continuing to align our resources to focus on core strategic priorities and deliver a superior user experience, and as part of this effort, we are re-prioritizing some products," the company said in a statement provided Wednesday. After stumbling through much of 2006, Yahoo opened the first three months of this year with an 11 percent decline in its profit. The slowdown helped spur speculation last week that Microsoft Corp. might try to buy Yahoo and forge a business partnership as both companies try to combat online search leader Google Inc. Yahoo's reshuffling mirrors some of the suggestions made last fall by one of the company's own executives, Brad Garlinghouse, who had urged the management to pull the plug on some less popular or overlapping services in a widely distributed internal memo. Garlinghouse's missive became known as the "Peanut Butter Manifesto" because it argued Yahoo had spread itself too thin. Closing the North American auction service was a "no-brainer" because Yahoo had such an insignificant market share, said Bill Tancer, general manager of global research for Hitwise, which tracks Internet trends. Yahoo attracted less than 0.2 percent of the U.S. traffic to auction sites during the week ended May 5 compared with nearly 85 percent for the longtime market leader eBay Inc., according to Hitwise. "If you can't compete in the space, it makes no sense to be there," Tancer said. By closing its auction site, Yahoo also might score points with San Jose-based eBay, one of the company's major advertising partners. Yahoo's closure of its original photo service is more risky because it actually is slightly more popular than Flickr. In the week ending May 5, the first-generation photo service attracted 6 percent of the U.S. traffic in its category compared with 4.8 percent for Flickr, Hitwise said. But Flickr tends to attract more urban consumers who tend to spend more on technology - a potentially more lucrative demographic that Yahoo apparently hopes to build upon. Yahoo is encouraging the users of its original photo service to embrace Flickr. Recognizing not everyone will want to make the leap, Yahoo is offering ways for users to transfer their photos to competing services, including Shutterfly, Photobucket, Kodak Gallery and Snapfish. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Man killed by loose truck wheels on Interstate 5 Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Fans turn out to greet local 'Idol' finalist Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/tech	KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Technology Virtual travel: Around the world in 80 minutes With no tickets required, no money spent and no need to leave your seat, touring in the virtual world of "Second Life" holds a certain appeal for travelers willing to delve deep into the Internet to find their escape. Phoenix Mars Lander arrives at Kennedy Space Center The Phoenix Mars Lander, the product of scientists at the University of Arizona, has emerged from its cocoon at Florida's Kennedy Space Center following a flight from Colorado, where it was built. NASA study: Eastern U.S. to get hotter Future eastern United States summers look much hotter than originally predicted with daily highs about 10 degrees warmer than in recent years by the mid-2080s, a new NASA study says. Long-range eye-tracker knows when you look at ads Police use cell-tracking technology to find transplant patient in time for surgery NYC cab rides going high-tech, but many drivers opposed Yahoo will close its North American online auction service IBM aims to make big computing greener Scientists surprised by new information about Saturn's winds Scientists plan Web site to catalog all life on earth Comcast CEO shows off super fast cable modem Sprint sues to halt dial-in services Intel chief: Curbs on public satellite photos may be needed Microsoft's new Hotmail goes live Astronomers spot brightest star explosion ever Are you a technology Omnivore? Man wins NASA challenge with space glove built at kitchen table Apple seeking end to music copy restrictions in iTunes talks Dell signs on with Microsoft, Novell open-source alliance YouTube faces another legal challenge Man puts wife up for sale on the web for $50 Cyberbullies would be target of new state rules Researches crack mystery at the core of Mercury U.S. reaffirms ban on online gambling Your chance to help tell the news Scan of Egyptian mummy reveals spearlike object, younger age Obama takes control of popular MySpace page from former supporter RIM unveils newest BlackBerry: the Curve Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Man killed by loose truck wheels on Interstate 5 Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Fans turn out to greet local 'Idol' finalist Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/tech	KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Technology Virtual travel: Around the world in 80 minutes With no tickets required, no money spent and no need to leave your seat, touring in the virtual world of "Second Life" holds a certain appeal for travelers willing to delve deep into the Internet to find their escape. Phoenix Mars Lander arrives at Kennedy Space Center The Phoenix Mars Lander, the product of scientists at the University of Arizona, has emerged from its cocoon at Florida's Kennedy Space Center following a flight from Colorado, where it was built. NASA study: Eastern U.S. to get hotter Future eastern United States summers look much hotter than originally predicted with daily highs about 10 degrees warmer than in recent years by the mid-2080s, a new NASA study says. Long-range eye-tracker knows when you look at ads Police use cell-tracking technology to find transplant patient in time for surgery NYC cab rides going high-tech, but many drivers opposed Yahoo will close its North American online auction service IBM aims to make big computing greener Scientists surprised by new information about Saturn's winds Scientists plan Web site to catalog all life on earth Comcast CEO shows off super fast cable modem Sprint sues to halt dial-in services Intel chief: Curbs on public satellite photos may be needed Microsoft's new Hotmail goes live Astronomers spot brightest star explosion ever Are you a technology Omnivore? Man wins NASA challenge with space glove built at kitchen table Apple seeking end to music copy restrictions in iTunes talks Dell signs on with Microsoft, Novell open-source alliance YouTube faces another legal challenge Man puts wife up for sale on the web for $50 Cyberbullies would be target of new state rules Researches crack mystery at the core of Mercury U.S. reaffirms ban on online gambling Your chance to help tell the news Scan of Egyptian mummy reveals spearlike object, younger age Obama takes control of popular MySpace page from former supporter RIM unveils newest BlackBerry: the Curve Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Man killed by loose truck wheels on Interstate 5 Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Fans turn out to greet local 'Idol' finalist Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/tech/7464362.html	Virtual travel: Around the world in 80 minutes | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Technology Virtual travel: Around the world in 80 minutes A screenshot provided by Linden Lab shows a scene from the "SecondLife" virtual world. Story Published: May 11, 2007 at 11:38 AM PDT Story Updated: May 11, 2007 at 11:38 AM PDT NEW YORK (AP) - The tour was a whirlwind: dancing at a beachside disco in Spain surrounded by scantily clad women, grabbing a seat at a lively pub in Dublin, flying in a small aircraft above a lush, tropical forest. Time elapsed? Less than two hours. With no tickets required, no money spent and no need to leave your seat, touring in the virtual world of "Second Life" holds a certain appeal for travelers willing to delve deep into the Internet to find their escape. Visitors need only download a free program, then log in. With the help of elaborate 3-D locales designed and built by the world's residents, tourists can watch their online embodiments - known as their avatars - lounge at the beach, dine at a romantic restaurant, or go out dancing at a crowded nightclub. Like in the real world, it's easy to get lost. Longtime inhabitants of "Second Life" are creating automated tours, opening virtual travel agencies and even publishing travel guidebooks modeled after those seen in the hands of confused tourists. Of course, there are some glaring differences between your average Frommer's guide and "The Unofficial Tourists' Guide to Second Life," published in April by St. Martin's Press. "There are sections on how to fly and how to hover," said co-writer Paul Carr. But despite such necessary adjustments, he said, "it's very much like going to a foreign country." With the ability to fly and even teleport from place to place in "Second Life," which hosted more than 1 million visitors in April, a vacation does not need to be a lengthy affair. As they travel to virtual Roman neighborhoods and fantastical worlds, visitors can interact with other participants from all over the (real) world - about three-quarters of users are from outside the U.S., mostly from Europe, Brazil, Canada, Japan and Australia. In "Second Life," even language difficulties are a thing of the past. Visitors can pick up a free translation program and carry on typed conversations with others speaking any of nine languages. For those looking to get their bearings, one option is the guided tour. Virtual travel agency Synthravels seeks to match up "tourists" and volunteer guides in 27 different online worlds, including "Second Life," "World of Warcraft" and others. On one recent tour of "Second Life," Synthravels founder Mario Gerosa led the way to a virtual representation of the Spanish island of Ibiza, stopping first at a shop selling traditional flamenco garb, then at a disco surrounded by sand and sea, where with the click of a mouse avatars can dance. Next stop is Midnight City, where a flight above the skyscrapers shows the moon's light reflected on the ocean's waves. Nearby, a simulation of a solar eclipse allows Gerosa's avatar, Frank Koolhaas, to walk right up to a blazing sun, standing on the fabric of outer space. Also on the tour: Dublin, a popular hangout among Irish users, and an island called Svarga, where a flying pod carries avatars above what appears to be a rain forest filled with huge trees and giant mushrooms. Like any guided tour in "Second Life," though, this one carried its own inherent difficulties. With both leader and led under their own power, it was quite easy to get separated. Several times, Gerosa's avatar lost some of its clothes. Like the Vatican in the height of tourist season, "Second Life" locations tend to get especially crowded when it's evening in the U.S. or Europe, and the resulting computer lag time can make navigating cumbersome. And finding a guide, in of itself, can be a challenge. The Synthravels Web site has connected guides and tourists more than 200 times, according to Gerosa, but for now it does not charge visitors or pay guides, and finding a tour depends on the sometimes-fickle interest of volunteers. But with some persistence and a willingness to just walk up to knowledgeable avatars and ask, there are guides to be found, Carr said. "There are quite a few people in 'Second Life' who will offer a tour in exchange for a few Linden dollars," said the writer, referring to the world's currency, which can be bought and sold for real-world cash. Those having a hard time securing a personal tour can turn to a number of automated options. Many site creators post vehicles near arrival points and program them to give visitors a tour of the location. By heading to The Guided Tour Company of Second Life, where automated tour vehicles ranging from hang-gliders to flying carpets are sold, avatars can access a programmed tour of tours. By clicking on the free guide, users can teleport to Icarus, where a giant dragonfly carries them to a romantic dance floor surrounded by twinkling stars. Clicking again brings them to Venice Island, where a gondola takes them to an old church adorned with Renaissance paintings and an ornate, carved pulpit. Another click leads to Cocoloco Island Resort, where a white hot-air balloon ferries them around what looks amazingly like a Caribbean resort: beach chairs, thatch cabanas, and a pool that - with a few mouse clicks - allows visitors to float on their backs for hours. At least for now, few people are charging visitors for such travel services. Even a stay at "aloft," a recently reopened virtual hotel by Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide Inc., is free. But the many entrepreneurs of "Second Life" may yet find a way to make travel pay, said Jeska Dzwigalski, a community developer with San Francisco-based Linden Research Inc., which runs the virtual world. She said she has seen the tours and "travel agencies popping up that help people and give them an experience they might not otherwise find. ... As we've grown, that became a potential business for people." Karen Hemmes has seen the demand firsthand - or at least through the eyes of her avatar, Sierra Sugar. A Gainesville, Fla., nurse by day - and a DJ at "Second Life" events by night - Hemmes received a virtual hot-air balloon as a gift, and started taking friends for rides. By the end of many of these tours meant for two, her balloon was packed to capacity with passers-by who had asked to join in, she said. Visitors can even capture a few photos or home videos to remind them of their trip. Screen grabs of a virtual Times Square and videos of avatars surfing are easily found on image-sharing sites around the Web. For those planning to go, though, Carr suggests visitors don't follow his example. "If you want to retain friends and not kill yourselves, then you need to take lots of breaks," said Carr, who holed himself up in a London apartment with co-writer Graham Pond in the final days of their research, subsisting on tinned goods and bottled water. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Man killed by loose truck wheels on Interstate 5 Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Fans turn out to greet local 'Idol' finalist Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/tech/7464362.html	Virtual travel: Around the world in 80 minutes | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Technology Virtual travel: Around the world in 80 minutes A screenshot provided by Linden Lab shows a scene from the "SecondLife" virtual world. Story Published: May 11, 2007 at 11:38 AM PDT Story Updated: May 11, 2007 at 11:38 AM PDT NEW YORK (AP) - The tour was a whirlwind: dancing at a beachside disco in Spain surrounded by scantily clad women, grabbing a seat at a lively pub in Dublin, flying in a small aircraft above a lush, tropical forest. Time elapsed? Less than two hours. With no tickets required, no money spent and no need to leave your seat, touring in the virtual world of "Second Life" holds a certain appeal for travelers willing to delve deep into the Internet to find their escape. Visitors need only download a free program, then log in. With the help of elaborate 3-D locales designed and built by the world's residents, tourists can watch their online embodiments - known as their avatars - lounge at the beach, dine at a romantic restaurant, or go out dancing at a crowded nightclub. Like in the real world, it's easy to get lost. Longtime inhabitants of "Second Life" are creating automated tours, opening virtual travel agencies and even publishing travel guidebooks modeled after those seen in the hands of confused tourists. Of course, there are some glaring differences between your average Frommer's guide and "The Unofficial Tourists' Guide to Second Life," published in April by St. Martin's Press. "There are sections on how to fly and how to hover," said co-writer Paul Carr. But despite such necessary adjustments, he said, "it's very much like going to a foreign country." With the ability to fly and even teleport from place to place in "Second Life," which hosted more than 1 million visitors in April, a vacation does not need to be a lengthy affair. As they travel to virtual Roman neighborhoods and fantastical worlds, visitors can interact with other participants from all over the (real) world - about three-quarters of users are from outside the U.S., mostly from Europe, Brazil, Canada, Japan and Australia. In "Second Life," even language difficulties are a thing of the past. Visitors can pick up a free translation program and carry on typed conversations with others speaking any of nine languages. For those looking to get their bearings, one option is the guided tour. Virtual travel agency Synthravels seeks to match up "tourists" and volunteer guides in 27 different online worlds, including "Second Life," "World of Warcraft" and others. On one recent tour of "Second Life," Synthravels founder Mario Gerosa led the way to a virtual representation of the Spanish island of Ibiza, stopping first at a shop selling traditional flamenco garb, then at a disco surrounded by sand and sea, where with the click of a mouse avatars can dance. Next stop is Midnight City, where a flight above the skyscrapers shows the moon's light reflected on the ocean's waves. Nearby, a simulation of a solar eclipse allows Gerosa's avatar, Frank Koolhaas, to walk right up to a blazing sun, standing on the fabric of outer space. Also on the tour: Dublin, a popular hangout among Irish users, and an island called Svarga, where a flying pod carries avatars above what appears to be a rain forest filled with huge trees and giant mushrooms. Like any guided tour in "Second Life," though, this one carried its own inherent difficulties. With both leader and led under their own power, it was quite easy to get separated. Several times, Gerosa's avatar lost some of its clothes. Like the Vatican in the height of tourist season, "Second Life" locations tend to get especially crowded when it's evening in the U.S. or Europe, and the resulting computer lag time can make navigating cumbersome. And finding a guide, in of itself, can be a challenge. The Synthravels Web site has connected guides and tourists more than 200 times, according to Gerosa, but for now it does not charge visitors or pay guides, and finding a tour depends on the sometimes-fickle interest of volunteers. But with some persistence and a willingness to just walk up to knowledgeable avatars and ask, there are guides to be found, Carr said. "There are quite a few people in 'Second Life' who will offer a tour in exchange for a few Linden dollars," said the writer, referring to the world's currency, which can be bought and sold for real-world cash. Those having a hard time securing a personal tour can turn to a number of automated options. Many site creators post vehicles near arrival points and program them to give visitors a tour of the location. By heading to The Guided Tour Company of Second Life, where automated tour vehicles ranging from hang-gliders to flying carpets are sold, avatars can access a programmed tour of tours. By clicking on the free guide, users can teleport to Icarus, where a giant dragonfly carries them to a romantic dance floor surrounded by twinkling stars. Clicking again brings them to Venice Island, where a gondola takes them to an old church adorned with Renaissance paintings and an ornate, carved pulpit. Another click leads to Cocoloco Island Resort, where a white hot-air balloon ferries them around what looks amazingly like a Caribbean resort: beach chairs, thatch cabanas, and a pool that - with a few mouse clicks - allows visitors to float on their backs for hours. At least for now, few people are charging visitors for such travel services. Even a stay at "aloft," a recently reopened virtual hotel by Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide Inc., is free. But the many entrepreneurs of "Second Life" may yet find a way to make travel pay, said Jeska Dzwigalski, a community developer with San Francisco-based Linden Research Inc., which runs the virtual world. She said she has seen the tours and "travel agencies popping up that help people and give them an experience they might not otherwise find. ... As we've grown, that became a potential business for people." Karen Hemmes has seen the demand firsthand - or at least through the eyes of her avatar, Sierra Sugar. A Gainesville, Fla., nurse by day - and a DJ at "Second Life" events by night - Hemmes received a virtual hot-air balloon as a gift, and started taking friends for rides. By the end of many of these tours meant for two, her balloon was packed to capacity with passers-by who had asked to join in, she said. Visitors can even capture a few photos or home videos to remind them of their trip. Screen grabs of a virtual Times Square and videos of avatars surfing are easily found on image-sharing sites around the Web. For those planning to go, though, Carr suggests visitors don't follow his example. "If you want to retain friends and not kill yourselves, then you need to take lots of breaks," said Carr, who holed himself up in a London apartment with co-writer Graham Pond in the final days of their research, subsisting on tinned goods and bottled water. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Man killed by loose truck wheels on Interstate 5 Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Fans turn out to greet local 'Idol' finalist Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/tech/7440331.html	Police use cell-tracking technology to find transplant patient in time for surgery | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Technology Police use cell-tracking technology to find transplant patient in time for surgery Story Published: May 10, 2007 at 8:00 AM PDT Story Updated: May 10, 2007 at 8:19 AM PDT SLIPPERY ROCK, Pa. (AP) - It took global-positioning technology for police to track down a 10-year-old boy and get him to a hospital in time for a life-saving heart transplant. John Paul May and his mother were at a university concert when officials got word that the heart was available. Sue May had a cell phone, but the volume was off. When hospital officials couldn't reach the family, they called Pennsylvania State Police for help. The trooper working the desk sent out patrols to search for the family and eventually called communications company Sprint to track May's cell phone, then sent officers to the concert at Slippery Rock College, State Police Cpl. James Green said Thursday. At the concert, Green approached the director, giving him the cut sign. The crowd was "sitting there dumbfounded," Green said. "I don't think they knew what to expect that the State Police were there stopping a concert." "I called out Sue's name twice, and the second time she raised her hand," he said. "I announced we had to get her to Pittsburgh, to the children's hospital, that they had a heart for her little boy." John, who had coronary artery disease, underwent surgery at Children's Hospital of Pittsburgh on Saturday night. He was in critical but stable condition Thursday morning, his mother told CBS's "The Early Show." "He's doing as good as expected at this time, but that's just thanks to all the policemen," May said. "If it wasn't for them, if we didn't get this heart, who knows if my son would have survived to the next heart?" Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Man killed by loose truck wheels on Interstate 5 Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Fans turn out to greet local 'Idol' finalist Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/tech/7440331.html	Police use cell-tracking technology to find transplant patient in time for surgery | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Technology Police use cell-tracking technology to find transplant patient in time for surgery Story Published: May 10, 2007 at 8:00 AM PDT Story Updated: May 10, 2007 at 8:19 AM PDT SLIPPERY ROCK, Pa. (AP) - It took global-positioning technology for police to track down a 10-year-old boy and get him to a hospital in time for a life-saving heart transplant. John Paul May and his mother were at a university concert when officials got word that the heart was available. Sue May had a cell phone, but the volume was off. When hospital officials couldn't reach the family, they called Pennsylvania State Police for help. The trooper working the desk sent out patrols to search for the family and eventually called communications company Sprint to track May's cell phone, then sent officers to the concert at Slippery Rock College, State Police Cpl. James Green said Thursday. At the concert, Green approached the director, giving him the cut sign. The crowd was "sitting there dumbfounded," Green said. "I don't think they knew what to expect that the State Police were there stopping a concert." "I called out Sue's name twice, and the second time she raised her hand," he said. "I announced we had to get her to Pittsburgh, to the children's hospital, that they had a heart for her little boy." John, who had coronary artery disease, underwent surgery at Children's Hospital of Pittsburgh on Saturday night. He was in critical but stable condition Thursday morning, his mother told CBS's "The Early Show." "He's doing as good as expected at this time, but that's just thanks to all the policemen," May said. "If it wasn't for them, if we didn't get this heart, who knows if my son would have survived to the next heart?" Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Man killed by loose truck wheels on Interstate 5 Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Fans turn out to greet local 'Idol' finalist Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/tech/7440361.html	Long-range eye-tracker knows when you look at ads | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Technology Long-range eye-tracker knows when you look at ads Story Published: May 10, 2007 at 8:04 AM PDT Story Updated: May 10, 2007 at 8:04 AM PDT TORONTO (AP) - A Canadian professor has developed technology that allows advertisers to count the number of people who look at their billboards and screens. Roel Vertegaal's Xuuk eyebox2 is a $999 portable device with a camera that monitors eye movements and automatically detects when you are looking at it from up to about 35 feet away. Until now, Vertegaal says, such eye-trackers have been ineffective beyond 2 feet, required people to remain stationary and cost more than $25,000. "It can track interest for your advertisers so you can actually have a business model where you sell the ad by the eyeball," said Vertegaal, a professor at Queens University in Kingston, Ontario. The eyebox2 comes as ads increasingly appear on plasma display panels in shopping malls, restaurants and other public places. Although Internet ads can be measured by the number of hits on a Web site, it is much harder to assess the ads on plasma screens. Vertegaal, who has been working on the technology since 1994, says advertisers can now accurately measure how much attention something receives, whether on a plasma panel, a billboard, or as the result of its placement on a supermarket shelf. Whether a viewer actually makes a purchase is another matter. Vertegaal said the eyebox2 is being used by advertisers in Britain, but not in the United States yet. He recently spoke at Google Inc.'s corporate headquarters in Mountain View, Calif. Google said in a statement that it often invites interesting people, but such talks shouldn't infer any specific product direction Google is taking. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Man killed by loose truck wheels on Interstate 5 Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Fans turn out to greet local 'Idol' finalist Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/tech/7440361.html	Long-range eye-tracker knows when you look at ads | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Technology Long-range eye-tracker knows when you look at ads Story Published: May 10, 2007 at 8:04 AM PDT Story Updated: May 10, 2007 at 8:04 AM PDT TORONTO (AP) - A Canadian professor has developed technology that allows advertisers to count the number of people who look at their billboards and screens. Roel Vertegaal's Xuuk eyebox2 is a $999 portable device with a camera that monitors eye movements and automatically detects when you are looking at it from up to about 35 feet away. Until now, Vertegaal says, such eye-trackers have been ineffective beyond 2 feet, required people to remain stationary and cost more than $25,000. "It can track interest for your advertisers so you can actually have a business model where you sell the ad by the eyeball," said Vertegaal, a professor at Queens University in Kingston, Ontario. The eyebox2 comes as ads increasingly appear on plasma display panels in shopping malls, restaurants and other public places. Although Internet ads can be measured by the number of hits on a Web site, it is much harder to assess the ads on plasma screens. Vertegaal, who has been working on the technology since 1994, says advertisers can now accurately measure how much attention something receives, whether on a plasma panel, a billboard, or as the result of its placement on a supermarket shelf. Whether a viewer actually makes a purchase is another matter. Vertegaal said the eyebox2 is being used by advertisers in Britain, but not in the United States yet. He recently spoke at Google Inc.'s corporate headquarters in Mountain View, Calif. Google said in a statement that it often invites interesting people, but such talks shouldn't infer any specific product direction Google is taking. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Man killed by loose truck wheels on Interstate 5 Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Fans turn out to greet local 'Idol' finalist Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/tech/7417671.html	Scientists plan Web site to catalog all life on earth | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Technology Scientists plan Web site to catalog all life on earth Story Published: May 9, 2007 at 8:24 AM PDT Story Updated: May 10, 2007 at 12:23 AM PDT WASHINGTON (AP) - In a whale-sized project, the world's scientists plan to compile everything they know about all of Earth's 1.8 million known species and put it all on one Web site, open to everyone. The effort, called the Encyclopedia of Life, will include species descriptions, pictures, maps, videos, sound, sightings by amateurs, and links to entire genomes and scientific journal papers. Its first pages of information will be shown Wednesday in Washington where the massive effort is being announced by some of the world's leading scientific institutions and universities. The project will take about 10 years to complete. "It's an interactive zoo," said James Edwards, who will be the encyclopedia's executive director. Edwards currently helps run a global biodiversity information system. If the new encyclopedia progresses as planned, it should fill about 300 million pages, which, if lined up end-to-end, would be more than 52,000 miles long, able to stretch twice around the world at the equator. The MacArthur and Sloan foundations have given a total $12.5 million to pay for the first 2½ years of the massive effort, but it will be free and accessible to everyone. The pages can be adjusted so that they provide useful information for both a schoolchild and a research biologist alike, with an emphasis on encouraging "citizen-scientists" to add their sightings. While amateurs can contribute in clearly marked side pages, the key detail and science parts of the encyclopedia will be compiled and reviewed by experts. "It could be a very big leap in the way we do science," said Cristian Samper, acting secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, one of seven museums, universities and labs to launch the encyclopedia. "This is a project that is so big, not even the Smithsonian, could do it by itself. It is a global effort." Other institutions helping head the undertaking include Harvard University, Chicago's Field Museum, the Marine Biological Laboratory in Massachusetts, the Biodiversity Heritage Library Consortium, the Missouri Botanical Garden and the Atlas of Living Australia. The project will try to be like Mexico's Conabio compilation of all 70,000 named species in that country, but bigger, Edwards said. "They are going to do something extremely ambitious and important," said Conabio's founding director Jorge Soberon, now a professor at the University of Kansas. For more than a decade scientists have tried to compile simply a list of all species on Earth, but failed. It's been too complicated, too expensive and too cumbersome. This effort may succeed where the others have faltered because of new search engine technology - the same kind that Google uses. It will scan the Web for scientific information on the Internet and "mash up" all of the material into a file that then gets reviewed by expert curators, said Harvard's James Hanken, a steering committee member. For scientists, especially those in developing countries, this can open up new worlds of research, said Samper, who has worked as a biologist in Colombia studying South American plants. And that means more science from different areas, he said. Research papers that used to limited to northern science libraries will be easily accessible in remote Botswana, he said. "The democracy of science can't be overemphasized," he added. And the democracy will be spread to people without PhDs. Edwards said the public will be able to send information to scientists that they wouldn't have otherwise. "The public can contribute, and that makes a big difference," Soberon said. "It's one thing to be a passive spectator and another when the public can contribute." This could be crucial in tracking invasive species, Samper said. Sample demonstration pages of the polar bear show what the scientists hope to do. It offers pictures, maps, research and data on the molecular biology, genetics, reproduction diet of the polar bear. The information can be accessed at the "novice" level, which says: "Polar bears inhabit Arctic sea ice, water, islands and continental coastlines." At "expert" level, it says: Polar bears occur in low numbers throughout their range and are most abundant in shallow water areas near shore or where current or upwellings increase biological productivity near ice areas associated with open water, polynyas or lead systems." And as new species are discovered each day, they'll be added, scientists say. They estimate that Earth actually has 8 million species or so, but only one-quarter of them have been identified and named as separate species. After that, long-gone species - the fossil world - will be added. "If we don't include dinosaurs, we'll have lost 6-year-old boys," Edwards said. On the Net: Encyclopedia of Life: Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Man killed by loose truck wheels on Interstate 5 Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Fans turn out to greet local 'Idol' finalist Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/tech/7417671.html	Scientists plan Web site to catalog all life on earth | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Technology Scientists plan Web site to catalog all life on earth Story Published: May 9, 2007 at 8:24 AM PDT Story Updated: May 10, 2007 at 12:23 AM PDT WASHINGTON (AP) - In a whale-sized project, the world's scientists plan to compile everything they know about all of Earth's 1.8 million known species and put it all on one Web site, open to everyone. The effort, called the Encyclopedia of Life, will include species descriptions, pictures, maps, videos, sound, sightings by amateurs, and links to entire genomes and scientific journal papers. Its first pages of information will be shown Wednesday in Washington where the massive effort is being announced by some of the world's leading scientific institutions and universities. The project will take about 10 years to complete. "It's an interactive zoo," said James Edwards, who will be the encyclopedia's executive director. Edwards currently helps run a global biodiversity information system. If the new encyclopedia progresses as planned, it should fill about 300 million pages, which, if lined up end-to-end, would be more than 52,000 miles long, able to stretch twice around the world at the equator. The MacArthur and Sloan foundations have given a total $12.5 million to pay for the first 2½ years of the massive effort, but it will be free and accessible to everyone. The pages can be adjusted so that they provide useful information for both a schoolchild and a research biologist alike, with an emphasis on encouraging "citizen-scientists" to add their sightings. While amateurs can contribute in clearly marked side pages, the key detail and science parts of the encyclopedia will be compiled and reviewed by experts. "It could be a very big leap in the way we do science," said Cristian Samper, acting secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, one of seven museums, universities and labs to launch the encyclopedia. "This is a project that is so big, not even the Smithsonian, could do it by itself. It is a global effort." Other institutions helping head the undertaking include Harvard University, Chicago's Field Museum, the Marine Biological Laboratory in Massachusetts, the Biodiversity Heritage Library Consortium, the Missouri Botanical Garden and the Atlas of Living Australia. The project will try to be like Mexico's Conabio compilation of all 70,000 named species in that country, but bigger, Edwards said. "They are going to do something extremely ambitious and important," said Conabio's founding director Jorge Soberon, now a professor at the University of Kansas. For more than a decade scientists have tried to compile simply a list of all species on Earth, but failed. It's been too complicated, too expensive and too cumbersome. This effort may succeed where the others have faltered because of new search engine technology - the same kind that Google uses. It will scan the Web for scientific information on the Internet and "mash up" all of the material into a file that then gets reviewed by expert curators, said Harvard's James Hanken, a steering committee member. For scientists, especially those in developing countries, this can open up new worlds of research, said Samper, who has worked as a biologist in Colombia studying South American plants. And that means more science from different areas, he said. Research papers that used to limited to northern science libraries will be easily accessible in remote Botswana, he said. "The democracy of science can't be overemphasized," he added. And the democracy will be spread to people without PhDs. Edwards said the public will be able to send information to scientists that they wouldn't have otherwise. "The public can contribute, and that makes a big difference," Soberon said. "It's one thing to be a passive spectator and another when the public can contribute." This could be crucial in tracking invasive species, Samper said. Sample demonstration pages of the polar bear show what the scientists hope to do. It offers pictures, maps, research and data on the molecular biology, genetics, reproduction diet of the polar bear. The information can be accessed at the "novice" level, which says: "Polar bears inhabit Arctic sea ice, water, islands and continental coastlines." At "expert" level, it says: Polar bears occur in low numbers throughout their range and are most abundant in shallow water areas near shore or where current or upwellings increase biological productivity near ice areas associated with open water, polynyas or lead systems." And as new species are discovered each day, they'll be added, scientists say. They estimate that Earth actually has 8 million species or so, but only one-quarter of them have been identified and named as separate species. After that, long-gone species - the fossil world - will be added. "If we don't include dinosaurs, we'll have lost 6-year-old boys," Edwards said. On the Net: Encyclopedia of Life: Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Man killed by loose truck wheels on Interstate 5 Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Fans turn out to greet local 'Idol' finalist Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/tech/7461082.html	Phoenix Mars Lander arrives at Kennedy Space Center | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Technology Phoenix Mars Lander arrives at Kennedy Space Center Story Published: May 11, 2007 at 8:06 AM PDT Story Updated: May 11, 2007 at 8:06 AM PDT TUCSON, Ariz. (AP) - The Phoenix Mars Lander, the product of scientists at the University of Arizona, has emerged from its cocoon at Florida's Kennedy Space Center following a flight from Colorado, where it was built. The spacecraft was flown to the Shuttle Landing Facility by a U.S. Air Force C-17 cargo plane. Workers used a huge crane on Tuesday to remove the top and sides of a steel container that encased the lander during the trip, said Gary Napier, spokesman with Lockheed Martin Corp.'s Littleton, Colo., Space Systems facility. They then removed two layers of an amber-colored plastic material designed to protect the lander from possible contamination during the journey, he said. The lander will undergo final preparations and testing inside the very same clean room where many earlier Mars mission craft were housed before launch, Napier said. As the Aug. 3 launch date approaches, the Phoenix Mars Lander will be integrated with a Delta II launch vehicle. The three-stage, 130-foot-tall Delta II has 12 rockets designed to push the 1,500-pound lander out of Earth's gravity. The lander is scheduled to arrive on Mars next May. The University of Arizona is in charge of the Phoenix Mars mission, with the goal of finding evidence of water and habitable conditions near the red planet's northern polar region. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Man killed by loose truck wheels on Interstate 5 Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Fans turn out to greet local 'Idol' finalist Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/tech/7461082.html	Phoenix Mars Lander arrives at Kennedy Space Center | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Technology Phoenix Mars Lander arrives at Kennedy Space Center Story Published: May 11, 2007 at 8:06 AM PDT Story Updated: May 11, 2007 at 8:06 AM PDT TUCSON, Ariz. (AP) - The Phoenix Mars Lander, the product of scientists at the University of Arizona, has emerged from its cocoon at Florida's Kennedy Space Center following a flight from Colorado, where it was built. The spacecraft was flown to the Shuttle Landing Facility by a U.S. Air Force C-17 cargo plane. Workers used a huge crane on Tuesday to remove the top and sides of a steel container that encased the lander during the trip, said Gary Napier, spokesman with Lockheed Martin Corp.'s Littleton, Colo., Space Systems facility. They then removed two layers of an amber-colored plastic material designed to protect the lander from possible contamination during the journey, he said. The lander will undergo final preparations and testing inside the very same clean room where many earlier Mars mission craft were housed before launch, Napier said. As the Aug. 3 launch date approaches, the Phoenix Mars Lander will be integrated with a Delta II launch vehicle. The three-stage, 130-foot-tall Delta II has 12 rockets designed to push the 1,500-pound lander out of Earth's gravity. The lander is scheduled to arrive on Mars next May. The University of Arizona is in charge of the Phoenix Mars mission, with the goal of finding evidence of water and habitable conditions near the red planet's northern polar region. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Man killed by loose truck wheels on Interstate 5 Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Fans turn out to greet local 'Idol' finalist Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/tech/7461017.html	NASA study: Eastern U.S. to get hotter | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Technology NASA study: Eastern U.S. to get hotter Story Published: May 11, 2007 at 8:02 AM PDT Story Updated: May 11, 2007 at 8:02 AM PDT WASHINGTON (AP) - Future eastern United States summers look much hotter than originally predicted with daily highs about 10 degrees warmer than in recent years by the mid-2080s, a new NASA study says. Previous and widely used global warming computer estimates predict too many rainy days, the study says. Because drier weather is hotter, they underestimate how warm it will be east of the Mississippi River, said atmospheric scientists Barry Lynn and Leonard Druyan of Columbia University and NASA's Goddard Institute for Space Studies. "Unless we take some strong action to curtail carbon dioxide emissions, it's going to get a lot hotter," said Lynn, now a scientist at Hebrew University of Jerusalem. "It's going to be a lot more dangerous for people who are not in the best of health." The study got mixed reviews from other climate scientists, in part because the eastern United States has recently been wetter and cooler than forecast. Instead of daily summer highs in the 1990s that averaged in the low to mid 80s Fahrenheit, the eastern United States is in for daily summer highs regularly in the low to mid 90s, the study found. The study only looked at the eastern United States because that was the focus of the funding by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Lynn said. And that's just the eastern United States as a whole. For individual cities, the future looks even hotter. In the 2080s, the average summer high will probably be 102 degrees in Jacksonville, 100 degrees in Memphis, 96 degrees in Atlanta, and 91 degrees in Chicago and Washington, according to the study published in the April edition of the peer-reviewed journal Climate and posted on the NASA Web site Thursday. But every now and then a summer will be drier than normal and that means even hotter days, Lynn said. So when Lynn's computer models spit out simulated results for July 2085 the forecast temperatures sizzled past uncomfortable into painful. The study showed a map where the average high in the southeast neared 115 and pushed 100 in the northeast. Even Canada flirted with the low to mid 90s. Many politicians and climate skeptics have criticized computer models as erring on the side of predicting temperatures that are too hot and outcomes that are too apocalyptic with global warming. But Druyan said the problem is most computer models, especially when compared to their predictions of past observations, underestimate how bad global warming is. That's because they see too many rainy days, which tends to cool temperatures off, he said. There is an established link between rainy and cooler weather and hot and drier weather, said Kevin Trenberth, climate analysis chief at the National Center for Atmospheric Research. Rainy days means more clouds blocking the sun and more solar heat used to evaporate water, Druyan said. "I'm sorry for the bad news," Druyan said. "It gets worse everywhere." Trenberth said the link between dryness and heat works, but he is a little troubled by the computer modeling done by Lynn and Druyan and points out that recently the eastern United States has been wetter and cooler than expected. A top U.S. climate modeler, Jerry Mahlman, criticized the study as not matching models up correctly and "just sort of whistling in the dark a little bit." But Andrew Weaver of the University of Victoria, editor of the journal Climate but not of this study, praised the paper, saying "it makes perfect sense." He said it shows yet another "positive feedback" in global warming, where one aspect of climate change makes something else worse and it works like a loop. "The more we start to understand of the science, the more positive feedbacks we start to find," Weaver said. Weaver said looking at the map of a hotter eastern United States he can think of one thing: "I like living in Canada." Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Man killed by loose truck wheels on Interstate 5 Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Fans turn out to greet local 'Idol' finalist Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/tech/7461017.html	NASA study: Eastern U.S. to get hotter | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Technology NASA study: Eastern U.S. to get hotter Story Published: May 11, 2007 at 8:02 AM PDT Story Updated: May 11, 2007 at 8:02 AM PDT WASHINGTON (AP) - Future eastern United States summers look much hotter than originally predicted with daily highs about 10 degrees warmer than in recent years by the mid-2080s, a new NASA study says. Previous and widely used global warming computer estimates predict too many rainy days, the study says. Because drier weather is hotter, they underestimate how warm it will be east of the Mississippi River, said atmospheric scientists Barry Lynn and Leonard Druyan of Columbia University and NASA's Goddard Institute for Space Studies. "Unless we take some strong action to curtail carbon dioxide emissions, it's going to get a lot hotter," said Lynn, now a scientist at Hebrew University of Jerusalem. "It's going to be a lot more dangerous for people who are not in the best of health." The study got mixed reviews from other climate scientists, in part because the eastern United States has recently been wetter and cooler than forecast. Instead of daily summer highs in the 1990s that averaged in the low to mid 80s Fahrenheit, the eastern United States is in for daily summer highs regularly in the low to mid 90s, the study found. The study only looked at the eastern United States because that was the focus of the funding by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Lynn said. And that's just the eastern United States as a whole. For individual cities, the future looks even hotter. In the 2080s, the average summer high will probably be 102 degrees in Jacksonville, 100 degrees in Memphis, 96 degrees in Atlanta, and 91 degrees in Chicago and Washington, according to the study published in the April edition of the peer-reviewed journal Climate and posted on the NASA Web site Thursday. But every now and then a summer will be drier than normal and that means even hotter days, Lynn said. So when Lynn's computer models spit out simulated results for July 2085 the forecast temperatures sizzled past uncomfortable into painful. The study showed a map where the average high in the southeast neared 115 and pushed 100 in the northeast. Even Canada flirted with the low to mid 90s. Many politicians and climate skeptics have criticized computer models as erring on the side of predicting temperatures that are too hot and outcomes that are too apocalyptic with global warming. But Druyan said the problem is most computer models, especially when compared to their predictions of past observations, underestimate how bad global warming is. That's because they see too many rainy days, which tends to cool temperatures off, he said. There is an established link between rainy and cooler weather and hot and drier weather, said Kevin Trenberth, climate analysis chief at the National Center for Atmospheric Research. Rainy days means more clouds blocking the sun and more solar heat used to evaporate water, Druyan said. "I'm sorry for the bad news," Druyan said. "It gets worse everywhere." Trenberth said the link between dryness and heat works, but he is a little troubled by the computer modeling done by Lynn and Druyan and points out that recently the eastern United States has been wetter and cooler than expected. A top U.S. climate modeler, Jerry Mahlman, criticized the study as not matching models up correctly and "just sort of whistling in the dark a little bit." But Andrew Weaver of the University of Victoria, editor of the journal Climate but not of this study, praised the paper, saying "it makes perfect sense." He said it shows yet another "positive feedback" in global warming, where one aspect of climate change makes something else worse and it works like a loop. "The more we start to understand of the science, the more positive feedbacks we start to find," Weaver said. Weaver said looking at the map of a hotter eastern United States he can think of one thing: "I like living in Canada." Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Man killed by loose truck wheels on Interstate 5 Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Fans turn out to greet local 'Idol' finalist Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/tech/7440291.html	NYC cab rides going high-tech, but many drivers opposed | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Technology NYC cab rides going high-tech, but many drivers opposed Story Published: May 10, 2007 at 7:59 AM PDT Story Updated: May 10, 2007 at 7:59 AM PDT NEW YORK (AP) - To taxi officials, the touch-screen monitors popping up in cabs help passengers make the most of the 13 New York minutes spent on an average ride. Passengers can pay by credit card - no more fumbling for cash and tip. As a cab heads through Greenwich Village, for example, passengers can find ads and reviews for neighborhood bars and restaurants. They can also view news stories and an electronic map of their cab's progress. The monitors are now in 200 city cabs as an experiment, but a plan to put them in all 13,000 cabs has angered many drivers. They see the technology as an expensive imposition that would cost them money and allow taxi owners and officials to check up on them. The issue has a delicate history: A 2003 experiment with touch-screen television in taxis ended within months, amid passenger antipathy. And the drivers' group leading the opposition to the monitors notes that it carried out a crippling one-day taxi strike over other issues in 1998. The Taxi and Limousine Commission is scheduled Thursday to consider an Oct. 1 deadline for all of the city's cabs to start installing the systems. "This project is nothing short of revolutionary and evolutionary for the taxi industry," Taxi and Limousine Commissioner Matthew W. Daus wrote in a recent agency newsletter. The commission called for the technology while approving a 26 percent fare increase in 2004, and the agency argues that both riders and drivers stand to benefit. The credit-card option is expected to prove popular with customers in what is now a mostly cash, $1.8 billion-a-year business. Officials say it could translate to bigger tips and more fares from riders short on cash. The global positioning system in the technology will also automate required record-keeping and give drivers crucial information about traffic or lost items. If a customer reports losing a wallet, for example, the taxi commission could send alerts to drivers in the neighborhood where the customer was dropped off to be on the lookout. The commission has approved tests of four systems and may endorse them for sale within days. Taxi owners would choose from the four systems, at a maximum three-year cost of $7,200 for equipment and various fees, although commission officials expect the cost will be far less in many cases. Vendors say advertising can offset at least some of owners' costs. Objecting drivers have raised concerns about the costs of the hardware, credit-card fees and potential working time lost if the systems need repair. Some worry that the global-positioning system will be used to track their movements, although the taxi commission says it will record only the pickup and drop-off points and fare, which drivers already are required to log. "It's trampling on our constitutional rights, and it will cut deeply into our income," said Bill Lindauer, who drove a cab for 30 years and is a member of the organizing committee of the New York Taxi Workers Alliance, a drivers' advocacy group with more than 7,000 members. The alliance held a rally in March to protest the new systems, and Lindauer said this month that the group was exploring legal and political avenues for trying to block the plan. But some drivers embrace the technology, which came free for those who offered their cabs as proving grounds. Cesar Norena, a 17-year taxi driver testing a system made by Englewood, N.J.-based TaxiTech, says passengers have made liberal use of its features, and he believes the credit-card option will boost business. "People really like it," he said, "and as a driver, I really like it, too." Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Man killed by loose truck wheels on Interstate 5 Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Fans turn out to greet local 'Idol' finalist Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/tech/7440291.html	NYC cab rides going high-tech, but many drivers opposed | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Technology NYC cab rides going high-tech, but many drivers opposed Story Published: May 10, 2007 at 7:59 AM PDT Story Updated: May 10, 2007 at 7:59 AM PDT NEW YORK (AP) - To taxi officials, the touch-screen monitors popping up in cabs help passengers make the most of the 13 New York minutes spent on an average ride. Passengers can pay by credit card - no more fumbling for cash and tip. As a cab heads through Greenwich Village, for example, passengers can find ads and reviews for neighborhood bars and restaurants. They can also view news stories and an electronic map of their cab's progress. The monitors are now in 200 city cabs as an experiment, but a plan to put them in all 13,000 cabs has angered many drivers. They see the technology as an expensive imposition that would cost them money and allow taxi owners and officials to check up on them. The issue has a delicate history: A 2003 experiment with touch-screen television in taxis ended within months, amid passenger antipathy. And the drivers' group leading the opposition to the monitors notes that it carried out a crippling one-day taxi strike over other issues in 1998. The Taxi and Limousine Commission is scheduled Thursday to consider an Oct. 1 deadline for all of the city's cabs to start installing the systems. "This project is nothing short of revolutionary and evolutionary for the taxi industry," Taxi and Limousine Commissioner Matthew W. Daus wrote in a recent agency newsletter. The commission called for the technology while approving a 26 percent fare increase in 2004, and the agency argues that both riders and drivers stand to benefit. The credit-card option is expected to prove popular with customers in what is now a mostly cash, $1.8 billion-a-year business. Officials say it could translate to bigger tips and more fares from riders short on cash. The global positioning system in the technology will also automate required record-keeping and give drivers crucial information about traffic or lost items. If a customer reports losing a wallet, for example, the taxi commission could send alerts to drivers in the neighborhood where the customer was dropped off to be on the lookout. The commission has approved tests of four systems and may endorse them for sale within days. Taxi owners would choose from the four systems, at a maximum three-year cost of $7,200 for equipment and various fees, although commission officials expect the cost will be far less in many cases. Vendors say advertising can offset at least some of owners' costs. Objecting drivers have raised concerns about the costs of the hardware, credit-card fees and potential working time lost if the systems need repair. Some worry that the global-positioning system will be used to track their movements, although the taxi commission says it will record only the pickup and drop-off points and fare, which drivers already are required to log. "It's trampling on our constitutional rights, and it will cut deeply into our income," said Bill Lindauer, who drove a cab for 30 years and is a member of the organizing committee of the New York Taxi Workers Alliance, a drivers' advocacy group with more than 7,000 members. The alliance held a rally in March to protest the new systems, and Lindauer said this month that the group was exploring legal and political avenues for trying to block the plan. But some drivers embrace the technology, which came free for those who offered their cabs as proving grounds. Cesar Norena, a 17-year taxi driver testing a system made by Englewood, N.J.-based TaxiTech, says passengers have made liberal use of its features, and he believes the credit-card option will boost business. "People really like it," he said, "and as a driver, I really like it, too." Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Man killed by loose truck wheels on Interstate 5 Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Fans turn out to greet local 'Idol' finalist Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/tech/7417771.html	Scientists surprised by new information about Saturn's winds | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Technology Scientists surprised by new information about Saturn's winds Story Published: May 9, 2007 at 8:28 AM PDT Story Updated: May 9, 2007 at 8:28 AM PDT PASADENA, Calif. (AP) - Scientists say they now believe rotating eddies are driving Saturn's jet stream winds, not the other way around. The new view is based on images taken by the orbiting international Cassini spacecraft, which tracked the movement of cloud features on the ringed planet's southern hemisphere. Scientists initially believed eddies, or giant rotating storms, sapped energy out of the jets. ''Instead, what we find is that they are pumping energy into the jets,'' Cassini scientist Andrew Ingersoll of the California Institute of Technology said in a statement Tuesday. The findings will appear in a future issue of the journal Icarus. Jet streams are fast-moving currents that carry clouds in an eastern or western direction. By tracking the migration of clouds in images taken every 10 hours, scientists concluded the eddies were powering the jets because there were pointing in the same direction. ''The new information about how Saturn's jet streams are powered is exactly the opposite of what we thought prior to Cassini,'' said Anthony Del Genio of NASA's Goddard Institute for Space Studies in New York. Cassini is a project of NASA, the European Space Agency and the Italian Space Agency. The spacecraft is managed by NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory in Pasadena. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Man killed by loose truck wheels on Interstate 5 Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Fans turn out to greet local 'Idol' finalist Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/tech/7417771.html	Scientists surprised by new information about Saturn's winds | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Technology Scientists surprised by new information about Saturn's winds Story Published: May 9, 2007 at 8:28 AM PDT Story Updated: May 9, 2007 at 8:28 AM PDT PASADENA, Calif. (AP) - Scientists say they now believe rotating eddies are driving Saturn's jet stream winds, not the other way around. The new view is based on images taken by the orbiting international Cassini spacecraft, which tracked the movement of cloud features on the ringed planet's southern hemisphere. Scientists initially believed eddies, or giant rotating storms, sapped energy out of the jets. ''Instead, what we find is that they are pumping energy into the jets,'' Cassini scientist Andrew Ingersoll of the California Institute of Technology said in a statement Tuesday. The findings will appear in a future issue of the journal Icarus. Jet streams are fast-moving currents that carry clouds in an eastern or western direction. By tracking the migration of clouds in images taken every 10 hours, scientists concluded the eddies were powering the jets because there were pointing in the same direction. ''The new information about how Saturn's jet streams are powered is exactly the opposite of what we thought prior to Cassini,'' said Anthony Del Genio of NASA's Goddard Institute for Space Studies in New York. Cassini is a project of NASA, the European Space Agency and the Italian Space Agency. The spacecraft is managed by NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory in Pasadena. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Man killed by loose truck wheels on Interstate 5 Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Fans turn out to greet local 'Idol' finalist Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/tech/7494427.html	Colleges seeking recruits turn to student bloggers | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Technology Colleges seeking recruits turn to student bloggers Chris Smith, a sophomore at Ohio Dominican University, looks at his blog in his dorm room Tuesday, May 1, 2007, in Columbus, Ohio. Story Published: May 14, 2007 at 8:07 AM PDT Story Updated: May 14, 2007 at 8:07 AM PDT COLUMBUS, Ohio (AP) - Michael Chandler is a college student who's had it with parking tickets at Ball State University. "I swear that's where most of BSU's money comes from," Chandler groused recently on his blog. "They hand'em out left and right, without a care in the world." Far from getting irritated, Ball State University in Muncie, Ind., welcomes the blog. The school promotes the interactive online diary and several other unfiltered student blogs directly on its home page as a recruiting tool. Colleges seeking a competitive edge are increasingly enlisting and sometimes paying student bloggers to chronicle their lives online. The results run the gamut from insightful to boring, but the goal is the same: to find a new way to win the attention of the MySpace generation. "We found it a much freer, less constricting, far more believable way of letting prospective students glimpse what was going on on campus," said Seth Allen, dean of admissions at Dickinson College in Pennsylvania. Universities balance giving the bloggers the freedom to speak their mind while maintaining some control over content. Some, such as Dickinson, read postings before allowing them on the Web site to guard against offensive language. Others, like Ball State, say that defeats the purpose. Prospective students can easily compare students' thoughts with comments on online networking sites like MySpace or Facebook.com, said Nancy Prater, Ball State's Web coordinator. "If that doesn't match what they're saying on our blogs, there's a disconnect," Prater said. Colleges from Colgate University in upstate New York, a small liberal arts campus, to the University of Texas, one of the country's largest universities, now include links to student bloggers on their home pages. The emergence of the blogs is the next step in the evolution of admissions recruiting, said Barmak Nassirian, associate executive director for the American Association of Collegiate Registrars and Admissions Officers. First came glossy brochures. Next, huge Web sites packed with official information. Now, relatively uncensored blogs promote elements of university life, from the climbing wall at the rec center to the size of the rolls in the dining hall, he said. Chris Smith, a sophomore at Ohio Dominican University, posts lively weekly descriptions of his life as a college baseball player. He gets $20 a posting and has been unafraid to hide his preference for playing ball over going to class or criticizing professors for assigning too much homework. "Being in class is literally the last place you want to be at this time of the year," he wrote on April 12. Ohio Dominican, a small Roman Catholic college in Columbus, is among schools that decided not to allow blog readers to post comments out of fear of compromising online security. Traditionalists say that's not a real blog. More importantly, experts say, the best student blogs demand responses. "The very best ones are well-written, honest, authentic voices shining through and fully interactive, meaning you can knock out a response to something you read right away," said Stephanie Geyer of the consulting firm Noel-Levitz. Allowing outside comments was a priority at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology because it allows prospective students to ask questions anonymously they might not otherwise bring up, said Ben Jones, communications director for MIT's admissions' office. He estimates 50 inappropriate comments have been deleted from more than 28,000 postings. MIT has expanded its blogging program from three students three years ago to about 15 today. MIT didn't pay its bloggers at first, then relented when Jones saw how much work the students put in. He also worried about the credibility of paying bloggers until he saw that students were posting the good and the bad. They earn up to $40 a week. Surveys by Noel-Levitz have found that student blogs were among the top things prospective students wanted from college Web sites. The MIT bloggers average 15,000 to 20,000 hits per day from more than 5,000 unique visitors. Admitted students rank the blogs among the top three factors influencing their decision to attend MIT. Repeated references in student blogs to the small-town feel of Capital University in suburban Columbus drew high school senior Tishia Richardson to the liberal arts college. Now she's a student blogger, posting semi-rambling entries on a favorite campuswide stress reliever - called "Wicked Wednesday" - and praising the suburb's main drag for its multiple coffee shops. "Sometimes it's good to know about the little quirks of campus or what people are doing you wouldn't get on a regular campus visit," said Richardson, 18, a freshman majoring in social work. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/tech/7494427.html	Colleges seeking recruits turn to student bloggers | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Technology Colleges seeking recruits turn to student bloggers Chris Smith, a sophomore at Ohio Dominican University, looks at his blog in his dorm room Tuesday, May 1, 2007, in Columbus, Ohio. Story Published: May 14, 2007 at 8:07 AM PDT Story Updated: May 14, 2007 at 8:07 AM PDT COLUMBUS, Ohio (AP) - Michael Chandler is a college student who's had it with parking tickets at Ball State University. "I swear that's where most of BSU's money comes from," Chandler groused recently on his blog. "They hand'em out left and right, without a care in the world." Far from getting irritated, Ball State University in Muncie, Ind., welcomes the blog. The school promotes the interactive online diary and several other unfiltered student blogs directly on its home page as a recruiting tool. Colleges seeking a competitive edge are increasingly enlisting and sometimes paying student bloggers to chronicle their lives online. The results run the gamut from insightful to boring, but the goal is the same: to find a new way to win the attention of the MySpace generation. "We found it a much freer, less constricting, far more believable way of letting prospective students glimpse what was going on on campus," said Seth Allen, dean of admissions at Dickinson College in Pennsylvania. Universities balance giving the bloggers the freedom to speak their mind while maintaining some control over content. Some, such as Dickinson, read postings before allowing them on the Web site to guard against offensive language. Others, like Ball State, say that defeats the purpose. Prospective students can easily compare students' thoughts with comments on online networking sites like MySpace or Facebook.com, said Nancy Prater, Ball State's Web coordinator. "If that doesn't match what they're saying on our blogs, there's a disconnect," Prater said. Colleges from Colgate University in upstate New York, a small liberal arts campus, to the University of Texas, one of the country's largest universities, now include links to student bloggers on their home pages. The emergence of the blogs is the next step in the evolution of admissions recruiting, said Barmak Nassirian, associate executive director for the American Association of Collegiate Registrars and Admissions Officers. First came glossy brochures. Next, huge Web sites packed with official information. Now, relatively uncensored blogs promote elements of university life, from the climbing wall at the rec center to the size of the rolls in the dining hall, he said. Chris Smith, a sophomore at Ohio Dominican University, posts lively weekly descriptions of his life as a college baseball player. He gets $20 a posting and has been unafraid to hide his preference for playing ball over going to class or criticizing professors for assigning too much homework. "Being in class is literally the last place you want to be at this time of the year," he wrote on April 12. Ohio Dominican, a small Roman Catholic college in Columbus, is among schools that decided not to allow blog readers to post comments out of fear of compromising online security. Traditionalists say that's not a real blog. More importantly, experts say, the best student blogs demand responses. "The very best ones are well-written, honest, authentic voices shining through and fully interactive, meaning you can knock out a response to something you read right away," said Stephanie Geyer of the consulting firm Noel-Levitz. Allowing outside comments was a priority at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology because it allows prospective students to ask questions anonymously they might not otherwise bring up, said Ben Jones, communications director for MIT's admissions' office. He estimates 50 inappropriate comments have been deleted from more than 28,000 postings. MIT has expanded its blogging program from three students three years ago to about 15 today. MIT didn't pay its bloggers at first, then relented when Jones saw how much work the students put in. He also worried about the credibility of paying bloggers until he saw that students were posting the good and the bad. They earn up to $40 a week. Surveys by Noel-Levitz have found that student blogs were among the top things prospective students wanted from college Web sites. The MIT bloggers average 15,000 to 20,000 hits per day from more than 5,000 unique visitors. Admitted students rank the blogs among the top three factors influencing their decision to attend MIT. Repeated references in student blogs to the small-town feel of Capital University in suburban Columbus drew high school senior Tishia Richardson to the liberal arts college. Now she's a student blogger, posting semi-rambling entries on a favorite campuswide stress reliever - called "Wicked Wednesday" - and praising the suburb's main drag for its multiple coffee shops. "Sometimes it's good to know about the little quirks of campus or what people are doing you wouldn't get on a regular campus visit," said Richardson, 18, a freshman majoring in social work. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/tech	KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Technology Wash. utility plans region's largest solar project Washington state's oldest utility plans to start building the largest solar project in the region next month, and a municipal utility in a small city known most for its rodeo is enlisting residents' help to expand its energy generation through the sun. Shuttle starts trip back to launch pad after repairs After 2½ months of repairs to its external fuel tank, space shuttle Atlantis on Tuesday began a slow journey back to the launch pad in anticipation of lifting off in early June on a construction mission to the international space station. Microsoft says Linux, Open Office, free e-mail step on patents Microsoft Corp. has given the most detailed description to date of the number of open-source computer programs it says infringe on its patents, but the company says it still prefers licensing deals with open-source developers, software distributors and users instead of legal action against them. Military blocking soldiers' access to YouTube, MySpace LEDs emerge to fight fluorescents Satellite launch for Nigeria marks expansion for China's commercial launching Colleges seeking recruits turn to student bloggers Space shuttle set to return to launch pad on Tuesday Music piracy crackdown nets college kids Rural Ky. is home to 'Geek Squad' center Mysterious object that fell from sky likely space junk Russian cargo ship blasts off to space Virtual travel: Around the world in 80 minutes Phoenix Mars Lander arrives at Kennedy Space Center NASA study: Eastern U.S. to get hotter Long-range eye-tracker knows when you look at ads Police use cell-tracking technology to find transplant patient in time for surgery NYC cab rides going high-tech, but many drivers opposed Yahoo will close its North American online auction service IBM aims to make big computing greener Scientists surprised by new information about Saturn's winds Scientists plan Web site to catalog all life on earth Comcast CEO shows off super fast cable modem Sprint sues to halt dial-in services Intel chief: Curbs on public satellite photos may be needed Microsoft's new Hotmail goes live Astronomers spot brightest star explosion ever Are you a technology Omnivore? Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/tech	KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Technology Wash. utility plans region's largest solar project Washington state's oldest utility plans to start building the largest solar project in the region next month, and a municipal utility in a small city known most for its rodeo is enlisting residents' help to expand its energy generation through the sun. Shuttle starts trip back to launch pad after repairs After 2½ months of repairs to its external fuel tank, space shuttle Atlantis on Tuesday began a slow journey back to the launch pad in anticipation of lifting off in early June on a construction mission to the international space station. Microsoft says Linux, Open Office, free e-mail step on patents Microsoft Corp. has given the most detailed description to date of the number of open-source computer programs it says infringe on its patents, but the company says it still prefers licensing deals with open-source developers, software distributors and users instead of legal action against them. Military blocking soldiers' access to YouTube, MySpace LEDs emerge to fight fluorescents Satellite launch for Nigeria marks expansion for China's commercial launching Colleges seeking recruits turn to student bloggers Space shuttle set to return to launch pad on Tuesday Music piracy crackdown nets college kids Rural Ky. is home to 'Geek Squad' center Mysterious object that fell from sky likely space junk Russian cargo ship blasts off to space Virtual travel: Around the world in 80 minutes Phoenix Mars Lander arrives at Kennedy Space Center NASA study: Eastern U.S. to get hotter Long-range eye-tracker knows when you look at ads Police use cell-tracking technology to find transplant patient in time for surgery NYC cab rides going high-tech, but many drivers opposed Yahoo will close its North American online auction service IBM aims to make big computing greener Scientists surprised by new information about Saturn's winds Scientists plan Web site to catalog all life on earth Comcast CEO shows off super fast cable modem Sprint sues to halt dial-in services Intel chief: Curbs on public satellite photos may be needed Microsoft's new Hotmail goes live Astronomers spot brightest star explosion ever Are you a technology Omnivore? Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/tech/7494867.html	LEDs emerge to fight fluorescents | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Technology LEDs emerge to fight fluorescents This $50 LED floodlight from Lighting Science Group Corp. is shown Thursday, May 10, 2007 in New York. Story Published: May 14, 2007 at 8:32 AM PDT Story Updated: May 14, 2007 at 8:32 AM PDT NEW YORK (AP) - The light bulb, the symbol of bright ideas, doesn't look like such a great idea anymore, as lawmakers in the U.S. and abroad are talking about banning the century-old technology because of its contribution to global warming. But what comes next? Compact fluorescent bulbs are the only real alternative right now, but "bulbs" that use light-emitting diodes, or LEDs, are quickly emerging as a challenger. LEDs, which are small chips usually encased in a glass dome the size of a matchstick head, have been in use in electronics for decades to indicate, for example, whether a VCR is on or off. Those LEDs were usually red or green, but a scientific breakthrough in the 1990s paved the way for the production of LEDs that produce white light. Because they use less power than standard incandescent bulbs, white LEDs have become common in flashlights. Established players in the lighting industry and a host of startups are now grooming LEDs to take on the reigning champion of residential lighting, the familiar pear-shaped incandescent light bulb. The light bulb has been running out of friends recently. California and Canada have decided to ban the sale of incandescent bulbs by 2012. Australia is banning them in 2010. The European Union is looking at banning production of the bulbs. A U.S. Senate committee is working on a proposal that would phase out the light bulb in 10 years. And in New Jersey, where the first practical incandescent bulb emerged from Thomas Edison's laboratory in 1879, a bill has been introduced to ban their use in government buildings. Governments are gunning for the light bulb because it's much less efficient than fluorescents, using about five times more energy to produce the same amount of light. Lighting consumes 22 percent of electricity produced in the U.S., according to the Department of Energy, and widespread use of LED lighting could cut consumption in half. By 2027, LED lighting could cut annual energy use by the equivalent of 500 million barrels of oil, with the attendant reduction in emissions of carbon dioxide, the gas believed to be responsible for global warming. Much of that reduction would be possible with today's technology, using compact fluorescents, or CFLs. But consumers haven't warmed to them. The light quality hasn't been satisfactory, most take time to turn on and aren't dimmable. The LED has advantages over the CFL in most of those areas, and judging by this week's Lightfair trade show in New York, it could be a serious challenge to the CFL in a few years. What holds it back is chiefly price, but LEDs are already an economic alternative for niche uses. In the last two years, the diodes have doubled in energy efficiency and brightness, according to Greg Merritt, director of marketing for Durham, N.C.-based LED-manufacturer Cree Inc. In particular, LEDs that produce a yellowish or "warm" light similar to incandescents have improved. Dallas-based Lighting Science Group Corp. showed an LED "bulb" that screws into a standard medium-sized socket and produces a warm light equivalent to that of a 25-watt incandescent bulb, but consumes just 5.8 watts. It costs $50, hardly palatable to consumers who can buy a standard bulb for less than a dollar. Polybrite International, a startup in Naperville, Ill., announced that lighting giant Osram Sylvania, a subsidiary of Germany's Siemens AG, will distribute its LED "bulbs." The intended market is mainly commercial clients, who can afford to pay $15 to $85 per unit, according to Osram Sylvania marketing manager Constance Pineault. The energy efficiency is no doubt a draw for commercial clients like hotels, but LEDs have another big advantage: they last up to 50,000 hours, according to manufacturers. That compares to about 10,000 hours for fluorescents and 1,000 hours for incandescents. Not having to send out janitors to replace burned-out bulbs means big savings in maintenance costs. "Right now the applications that make sense are either high maintenance or high power consumption, like parking garages, where the lights are on all the time," said Cree's Merritt. LEDs already beat fluorescents for energy efficiency in some niche uses. For instance, Wal-Mart Stores Inc. is putting LED lighting in its in-store refrigerators, where the cold dims fluorescents and incandescents produce too much heat. LEDs also starting to replace flat fluorescent backlights in liquid-crystal displays, or LCDs, where they produce better colors. LEDs don't contain toxic mercury, which CFLs do, though the amount is very small. (Recent stories circulating on the Web about calling a hazmat team if a CFL breaks are exaggerated. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency recommends sweeping up, not vacuuming, the fragments, then checking out local recycling options.) The cost of LED lighting should be coming down quickly. Polybrite founder Carl Scianna said the cost of individual white-light diodes, several of which go into an LED bulb and make up much of the cost, have come down in price from about $8 to $1.50 in a year. "They're going to keep going down," Scianna said. "By the middle of next year, they'll be priced for consumers." Nadarajah Narendran, director of lighting research at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute in Troy, N.Y., cautions that there are still technical issues to work out with LEDs. While single LEDs can demonstrate very high energy efficiency in the lab, when they're combined into fixtures, their efficiency is considerably lower. In part that's a heat issue: the diodes produce less heat than incandescents, but they keep that heat in the fixture rather than radiating it, and the hotter the diodes get, the less efficient they are. He sees screwing LED bulbs into standard sockets "as a waste of talent" that doesn't utilize the inherent properties of LEDs, like their small size and longevity. "You could build them in as part of the furniture, part of the cabinetry," Narendran said. Because of their high prices, he doesn't believe LEDs will be ready to replace incandescents in all their uses for the next five to 10 years, but "LEDs, good or bad, will be growing very rapidly." Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/tech/7494867.html	LEDs emerge to fight fluorescents | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Technology LEDs emerge to fight fluorescents This $50 LED floodlight from Lighting Science Group Corp. is shown Thursday, May 10, 2007 in New York. Story Published: May 14, 2007 at 8:32 AM PDT Story Updated: May 14, 2007 at 8:32 AM PDT NEW YORK (AP) - The light bulb, the symbol of bright ideas, doesn't look like such a great idea anymore, as lawmakers in the U.S. and abroad are talking about banning the century-old technology because of its contribution to global warming. But what comes next? Compact fluorescent bulbs are the only real alternative right now, but "bulbs" that use light-emitting diodes, or LEDs, are quickly emerging as a challenger. LEDs, which are small chips usually encased in a glass dome the size of a matchstick head, have been in use in electronics for decades to indicate, for example, whether a VCR is on or off. Those LEDs were usually red or green, but a scientific breakthrough in the 1990s paved the way for the production of LEDs that produce white light. Because they use less power than standard incandescent bulbs, white LEDs have become common in flashlights. Established players in the lighting industry and a host of startups are now grooming LEDs to take on the reigning champion of residential lighting, the familiar pear-shaped incandescent light bulb. The light bulb has been running out of friends recently. California and Canada have decided to ban the sale of incandescent bulbs by 2012. Australia is banning them in 2010. The European Union is looking at banning production of the bulbs. A U.S. Senate committee is working on a proposal that would phase out the light bulb in 10 years. And in New Jersey, where the first practical incandescent bulb emerged from Thomas Edison's laboratory in 1879, a bill has been introduced to ban their use in government buildings. Governments are gunning for the light bulb because it's much less efficient than fluorescents, using about five times more energy to produce the same amount of light. Lighting consumes 22 percent of electricity produced in the U.S., according to the Department of Energy, and widespread use of LED lighting could cut consumption in half. By 2027, LED lighting could cut annual energy use by the equivalent of 500 million barrels of oil, with the attendant reduction in emissions of carbon dioxide, the gas believed to be responsible for global warming. Much of that reduction would be possible with today's technology, using compact fluorescents, or CFLs. But consumers haven't warmed to them. The light quality hasn't been satisfactory, most take time to turn on and aren't dimmable. The LED has advantages over the CFL in most of those areas, and judging by this week's Lightfair trade show in New York, it could be a serious challenge to the CFL in a few years. What holds it back is chiefly price, but LEDs are already an economic alternative for niche uses. In the last two years, the diodes have doubled in energy efficiency and brightness, according to Greg Merritt, director of marketing for Durham, N.C.-based LED-manufacturer Cree Inc. In particular, LEDs that produce a yellowish or "warm" light similar to incandescents have improved. Dallas-based Lighting Science Group Corp. showed an LED "bulb" that screws into a standard medium-sized socket and produces a warm light equivalent to that of a 25-watt incandescent bulb, but consumes just 5.8 watts. It costs $50, hardly palatable to consumers who can buy a standard bulb for less than a dollar. Polybrite International, a startup in Naperville, Ill., announced that lighting giant Osram Sylvania, a subsidiary of Germany's Siemens AG, will distribute its LED "bulbs." The intended market is mainly commercial clients, who can afford to pay $15 to $85 per unit, according to Osram Sylvania marketing manager Constance Pineault. The energy efficiency is no doubt a draw for commercial clients like hotels, but LEDs have another big advantage: they last up to 50,000 hours, according to manufacturers. That compares to about 10,000 hours for fluorescents and 1,000 hours for incandescents. Not having to send out janitors to replace burned-out bulbs means big savings in maintenance costs. "Right now the applications that make sense are either high maintenance or high power consumption, like parking garages, where the lights are on all the time," said Cree's Merritt. LEDs already beat fluorescents for energy efficiency in some niche uses. For instance, Wal-Mart Stores Inc. is putting LED lighting in its in-store refrigerators, where the cold dims fluorescents and incandescents produce too much heat. LEDs also starting to replace flat fluorescent backlights in liquid-crystal displays, or LCDs, where they produce better colors. LEDs don't contain toxic mercury, which CFLs do, though the amount is very small. (Recent stories circulating on the Web about calling a hazmat team if a CFL breaks are exaggerated. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency recommends sweeping up, not vacuuming, the fragments, then checking out local recycling options.) The cost of LED lighting should be coming down quickly. Polybrite founder Carl Scianna said the cost of individual white-light diodes, several of which go into an LED bulb and make up much of the cost, have come down in price from about $8 to $1.50 in a year. "They're going to keep going down," Scianna said. "By the middle of next year, they'll be priced for consumers." Nadarajah Narendran, director of lighting research at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute in Troy, N.Y., cautions that there are still technical issues to work out with LEDs. While single LEDs can demonstrate very high energy efficiency in the lab, when they're combined into fixtures, their efficiency is considerably lower. In part that's a heat issue: the diodes produce less heat than incandescents, but they keep that heat in the fixture rather than radiating it, and the hotter the diodes get, the less efficient they are. He sees screwing LED bulbs into standard sockets "as a waste of talent" that doesn't utilize the inherent properties of LEDs, like their small size and longevity. "You could build them in as part of the furniture, part of the cabinetry," Narendran said. Because of their high prices, he doesn't believe LEDs will be ready to replace incandescents in all their uses for the next five to 10 years, but "LEDs, good or bad, will be growing very rapidly." Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/tech/7512787.html	Microsoft says Linux, Open Office, free e-mail step on patents | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Technology Microsoft says Linux, Open Office, free e-mail step on patents Story Published: May 15, 2007 at 8:36 AM PDT Story Updated: May 15, 2007 at 8:36 AM PDT SEATTLE (AP) - Microsoft Corp. has given the most detailed description to date of the number of open-source computer programs it says infringe on its patents, but the company says it still prefers licensing deals with open-source developers, software distributors and users instead of legal action against them. "There is no reason why any segment of the industry needs to be exempt from intellectual property rules," Horacio Gutierrez, a Microsoft vice president for intellectual property and licensing, said in an interview Monday. At the most basic level, open-source software is distributed free of charge to consumers or businesses to use on their computers, and to programmers to modify, build on, and distribute again - also for free. While proprietary software companies like Microsoft make money by selling licenses for programs, open-source companies give away the program and usually make money selling support services. Open-source programs step on 235 Microsoft patents, the company said. Free Linux software violates 42 patents. Graphical user interfaces, the way menus and windows look on the screen, breach 65. E-mail programs step on 15, and other programs touch 68 other patents, the company said. The patent figures were first reported by Fortune magazine. Microsoft also said Open Office, an open-source program supported in part by Sun Microsystems Inc., infringes on 45 patents. Sun declined to comment on the allegation. Microsoft is the dominant maker of software that powers servers and desktop PCs, but the company views the free or low-cost Linux operating system alternatives "with a great deal of concern," said Al Gillen, an analyst at the technology research group IDC. "It's one of the few operating systems that represents a viable threat that Microsoft has a great deal of difficulty containing," Gillen said, because the developers share their code. "Microsoft can't drive a company out of business and make Linux go away," the analyst said. Instead, Microsoft has struck a number of patent-licensing deals with companies that use open source code, most notably Novell Inc. last November. In one aspect of the deal, Microsoft agreed to sell Novell's flavor of Linux, called Suse. It also agreed not to sue the customers who bought it, even though it claims the open-source software infringes on its patents. "Microsoft could have chosen to litigate many years ago, but we have decided not to do that," Gutierrez said. Instead, in the interest of making sure programs that include open-source technology work well with Microsoft products and vice versa, the company will continue to pursue similar deals. Much of the open-source community was unhappy with the Novell deal, which it saw as a workaround to a widely used open-source license called the GNU General Public License. More broadly, the free software movement saw the deal as an attack on one of its core tenets. Under the public license, once open-source code is incorporated into another company's technology, the new product must also be freely available - a distribution model that Microsoft clearly doesn't support. "Now it becomes possible to divide and conquer our community," said Eben Moglen, an attorney for the Free Software Foundation, the entity behind the GNU license. By making a pact with Novell, Microsoft also implied that anyone who downloaded or bought Linux from another vendor was doing so illegally. The next version of the GNU license, currently in draft form, aims to stop similar deals in the future. Moglen said the draft states that if a company like Microsoft distributes open-source programs protected by the GNU license, it forfeits any related patent claims. Open-source proponents are frustrated by Microsoft's repeated allusions to patent violations because "they never say what patents being violated, never make any assertions, never put the evidence out there," said Larry Augustin, a technology startup investor who launched SourceForge.net, a prominent open-source development site, in 1999. But Augustin also acknowledged that it's not in Microsoft's interest to do so: Open-source programmers could rewrite their code to avoid infringing on specific patents, or the courts could find that Microsoft's patent isn't valid. If Microsoft were to start suing, it could also kick off a patent war on a grand scale. An organization called the Open Innovation Network, funded by IBM Corp., Red Hat Inc. and others, has amassed a vast number of software patents. In the event of a Microsoft lawsuit against open source companies or customers, the OIN would retaliate in kind. "We believe it's highly likely that Microsoft would infringe some of our patents," said Jerry Rosenthal, OIN's chief executive. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/tech/7512787.html	Microsoft says Linux, Open Office, free e-mail step on patents | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Technology Microsoft says Linux, Open Office, free e-mail step on patents Story Published: May 15, 2007 at 8:36 AM PDT Story Updated: May 15, 2007 at 8:36 AM PDT SEATTLE (AP) - Microsoft Corp. has given the most detailed description to date of the number of open-source computer programs it says infringe on its patents, but the company says it still prefers licensing deals with open-source developers, software distributors and users instead of legal action against them. "There is no reason why any segment of the industry needs to be exempt from intellectual property rules," Horacio Gutierrez, a Microsoft vice president for intellectual property and licensing, said in an interview Monday. At the most basic level, open-source software is distributed free of charge to consumers or businesses to use on their computers, and to programmers to modify, build on, and distribute again - also for free. While proprietary software companies like Microsoft make money by selling licenses for programs, open-source companies give away the program and usually make money selling support services. Open-source programs step on 235 Microsoft patents, the company said. Free Linux software violates 42 patents. Graphical user interfaces, the way menus and windows look on the screen, breach 65. E-mail programs step on 15, and other programs touch 68 other patents, the company said. The patent figures were first reported by Fortune magazine. Microsoft also said Open Office, an open-source program supported in part by Sun Microsystems Inc., infringes on 45 patents. Sun declined to comment on the allegation. Microsoft is the dominant maker of software that powers servers and desktop PCs, but the company views the free or low-cost Linux operating system alternatives "with a great deal of concern," said Al Gillen, an analyst at the technology research group IDC. "It's one of the few operating systems that represents a viable threat that Microsoft has a great deal of difficulty containing," Gillen said, because the developers share their code. "Microsoft can't drive a company out of business and make Linux go away," the analyst said. Instead, Microsoft has struck a number of patent-licensing deals with companies that use open source code, most notably Novell Inc. last November. In one aspect of the deal, Microsoft agreed to sell Novell's flavor of Linux, called Suse. It also agreed not to sue the customers who bought it, even though it claims the open-source software infringes on its patents. "Microsoft could have chosen to litigate many years ago, but we have decided not to do that," Gutierrez said. Instead, in the interest of making sure programs that include open-source technology work well with Microsoft products and vice versa, the company will continue to pursue similar deals. Much of the open-source community was unhappy with the Novell deal, which it saw as a workaround to a widely used open-source license called the GNU General Public License. More broadly, the free software movement saw the deal as an attack on one of its core tenets. Under the public license, once open-source code is incorporated into another company's technology, the new product must also be freely available - a distribution model that Microsoft clearly doesn't support. "Now it becomes possible to divide and conquer our community," said Eben Moglen, an attorney for the Free Software Foundation, the entity behind the GNU license. By making a pact with Novell, Microsoft also implied that anyone who downloaded or bought Linux from another vendor was doing so illegally. The next version of the GNU license, currently in draft form, aims to stop similar deals in the future. Moglen said the draft states that if a company like Microsoft distributes open-source programs protected by the GNU license, it forfeits any related patent claims. Open-source proponents are frustrated by Microsoft's repeated allusions to patent violations because "they never say what patents being violated, never make any assertions, never put the evidence out there," said Larry Augustin, a technology startup investor who launched SourceForge.net, a prominent open-source development site, in 1999. But Augustin also acknowledged that it's not in Microsoft's interest to do so: Open-source programmers could rewrite their code to avoid infringing on specific patents, or the courts could find that Microsoft's patent isn't valid. If Microsoft were to start suing, it could also kick off a patent war on a grand scale. An organization called the Open Innovation Network, funded by IBM Corp., Red Hat Inc. and others, has amassed a vast number of software patents. In the event of a Microsoft lawsuit against open source companies or customers, the OIN would retaliate in kind. "We believe it's highly likely that Microsoft would infringe some of our patents," said Jerry Rosenthal, OIN's chief executive. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/tech/7512877.html	Wash. utility plans region's largest solar project | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Technology Wash. utility plans region's largest solar project Gary Nystedt, Ellensburg's resource manager, tours the first phase of the city's solar energy project in Ellensburg, Wash., Dec. 8, 2006. Story Published: May 15, 2007 at 8:42 AM PDT Story Updated: May 15, 2007 at 8:42 AM PDT ELLENSBURG, Wash. (AP) - Gray, gloomy rain. As much as Mount Rainier and salmon, drizzle is the staple image of the Pacific Northwest. The city of Seattle even broke a record last fall for precipitation in one month. But east of the Cascade Range, where sagebrush blooms in a desert climate, power companies see potential in sunshine. Washington state's oldest utility plans to start building the largest solar project in the region next month, and a municipal utility in a small city known most for its rodeo is enlisting residents' help to expand its energy generation through the sun. Already, communities up and down the West Coast are taking notice of a trend dampening notions about the Pacific Northwest. "Yes, it's not as good a deal in a state that gets less sun as it is in a state that sees more sunlight," said Stephen Frantz, a program planner for the Sacramento Municipal Utility District. "To compensate for that, you just have a strong environmental ethic in the Pacific Northwest." Sunlight has never really caught fire as a power source in the United States, comprising less than 1 percent of the power supply nationwide. Generating electricity with solar cells is usually more expensive and less efficient than some conventional sources. Much of the solar investment in the country has been made by people who live off the power grid, or by electricity customers whose utilities can install meters that credit residents for green power generated at their homes or businesses. But a number of factors are pushing utilities to look more closely at solar power, among them the rising cost of fossil fuels, environmental standards and state mandates for increasing renewable energy generation. At least 20 states, including Washington, have passed laws requiring utilities to boost their clean power sources. The secret about solar energy is that it's been increasing at well over 30 percent a year for about the past 10 years, said Brad Collins, executive director of the American Solar Energy Society, a nonprofit group that promotes renewable energy development. The increase has been fueled largely by government incentives, similar to those established in Germany in 2000 to expand renewable energy, Collins said. Germany now generates one-third of the world's wind power, and 50 percent of the solar modules produced worldwide are installed in the country, which sees less sunlight than Seattle. Japan also now provides significant incentives for solar power, pushing the United States to third in an area where 10 years ago, it led the field. "We are really in a global race to see who can develop and deploy these technologies the fastest," said Noah Kaye, director of public affairs for the Solar Energy Industries Association. "Renewable energy is going to drive a jobs boom and economic growth in the U.S., and states that set the policies designed to attract that growth are going to end up reaping the most benefits." The projects in the Northwest, long reliant on cheap hydropower, would seem to bear that out. Puget Sound Energy plans to start construction next month on a $3.7 million solar project next to its wind farm overlooking the Columbia River, about 115 miles east of Seattle. The 500-kilowatt project, enough to power about 300 homes, would easily be the biggest in the region. It's a small step - but an important step - toward an important goal, said Steve Emmert, PSE financial analyst. "People are very concerned about renewable energy and clean energy, and we really feel like this is something we need to be a leader on," Emmert said. The utility also is taking advantage of a $300,000 federal tax credit for investing in a project worth more than $1 million, before the credit expires at the end of the year, he said. Just west on Interstate 90, the municipal utility in the small city of Ellensburg doesn't qualify for such credits, but is pushing ahead with its own solar adventure anyway. Under its project, residents may invest a minimum of $250 toward the purchase of solar modules. The resulting power goes directly onto the utility's power lines, but residents receive a credit on their electricity bills. The utility, which has about 8,000 customers, maintains and operates the system. That allows residents who live in a shady area or who can't afford to spend thousands of dollars on rooftop modules to tap into green power. The project is widely believed to be the first of its kind in the nation. "It's a fluke I guess. We just came up with a new idea," said Gary Nystedt, the city's resource manager. "But people are excited about it, and participating." So far, about 65 people have invested in the project that now stands at 36 kilowatts, enough power for 10 homes a year. The city expects to expand the system to 165 kilowatts. As more people invest, the city will buy more modules, thereby ensuring individuals' investments don't decline, Nystedt said. He estimates it will take an investor 15 years to recoup his or her money at today's power prices. Solar modules today generally have a lifespan of about 25 years. "The payback is still quite long," he said, but added, "Our contributors are investing in the future, where we are going to get our power in 10, 20 years." Customers who buy in also own their investment and could include it as part of the sale of their home or transfer it to another entity, such as a church. Helen Wise, a retired biology professor, invested $4,500. "Even if I didn't have that incentive, it's important to me," Wise said. "I think I bought probably the first hybrid car in town, and my other car was still good." Communities across Washington, Oregon and California have called Nystedt to get more information about the project. They include Frantz, the Sacramento planner whose city opted to pursue a system that isn't customer-owned. "They're doing it for love, not for the money," he said of Ellensburg. "And you can't base a national energy scale on love and not money." The cost for solar power is typically about 25 cents per kilowatt hour, compared with about 4.5 cents for natural gas and 4-5 cents for hydropower, according to Mike Nelson, director of the Northwest Solar Center, part of Washington State University's energy program. However, there isn't any additional hydropower available to purchase, and no utility can sign a 30-year contract for natural gas, he said. If anything, the Northwest has been slow to realize its solar potential. Puget Sound Energy's project is one-tenth the size of the largest system in the nation in Arizona, and Washington state residents have installed twice as much solar power at their homes in the past year alone. "What (Puget Sound Energy) is doing is a nice big leap," Nelson said. "But the fact is, the public has already leapt twice as far." Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/tech/7512877.html	Wash. utility plans region's largest solar project | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Technology Wash. utility plans region's largest solar project Gary Nystedt, Ellensburg's resource manager, tours the first phase of the city's solar energy project in Ellensburg, Wash., Dec. 8, 2006. Story Published: May 15, 2007 at 8:42 AM PDT Story Updated: May 15, 2007 at 8:42 AM PDT ELLENSBURG, Wash. (AP) - Gray, gloomy rain. As much as Mount Rainier and salmon, drizzle is the staple image of the Pacific Northwest. The city of Seattle even broke a record last fall for precipitation in one month. But east of the Cascade Range, where sagebrush blooms in a desert climate, power companies see potential in sunshine. Washington state's oldest utility plans to start building the largest solar project in the region next month, and a municipal utility in a small city known most for its rodeo is enlisting residents' help to expand its energy generation through the sun. Already, communities up and down the West Coast are taking notice of a trend dampening notions about the Pacific Northwest. "Yes, it's not as good a deal in a state that gets less sun as it is in a state that sees more sunlight," said Stephen Frantz, a program planner for the Sacramento Municipal Utility District. "To compensate for that, you just have a strong environmental ethic in the Pacific Northwest." Sunlight has never really caught fire as a power source in the United States, comprising less than 1 percent of the power supply nationwide. Generating electricity with solar cells is usually more expensive and less efficient than some conventional sources. Much of the solar investment in the country has been made by people who live off the power grid, or by electricity customers whose utilities can install meters that credit residents for green power generated at their homes or businesses. But a number of factors are pushing utilities to look more closely at solar power, among them the rising cost of fossil fuels, environmental standards and state mandates for increasing renewable energy generation. At least 20 states, including Washington, have passed laws requiring utilities to boost their clean power sources. The secret about solar energy is that it's been increasing at well over 30 percent a year for about the past 10 years, said Brad Collins, executive director of the American Solar Energy Society, a nonprofit group that promotes renewable energy development. The increase has been fueled largely by government incentives, similar to those established in Germany in 2000 to expand renewable energy, Collins said. Germany now generates one-third of the world's wind power, and 50 percent of the solar modules produced worldwide are installed in the country, which sees less sunlight than Seattle. Japan also now provides significant incentives for solar power, pushing the United States to third in an area where 10 years ago, it led the field. "We are really in a global race to see who can develop and deploy these technologies the fastest," said Noah Kaye, director of public affairs for the Solar Energy Industries Association. "Renewable energy is going to drive a jobs boom and economic growth in the U.S., and states that set the policies designed to attract that growth are going to end up reaping the most benefits." The projects in the Northwest, long reliant on cheap hydropower, would seem to bear that out. Puget Sound Energy plans to start construction next month on a $3.7 million solar project next to its wind farm overlooking the Columbia River, about 115 miles east of Seattle. The 500-kilowatt project, enough to power about 300 homes, would easily be the biggest in the region. It's a small step - but an important step - toward an important goal, said Steve Emmert, PSE financial analyst. "People are very concerned about renewable energy and clean energy, and we really feel like this is something we need to be a leader on," Emmert said. The utility also is taking advantage of a $300,000 federal tax credit for investing in a project worth more than $1 million, before the credit expires at the end of the year, he said. Just west on Interstate 90, the municipal utility in the small city of Ellensburg doesn't qualify for such credits, but is pushing ahead with its own solar adventure anyway. Under its project, residents may invest a minimum of $250 toward the purchase of solar modules. The resulting power goes directly onto the utility's power lines, but residents receive a credit on their electricity bills. The utility, which has about 8,000 customers, maintains and operates the system. That allows residents who live in a shady area or who can't afford to spend thousands of dollars on rooftop modules to tap into green power. The project is widely believed to be the first of its kind in the nation. "It's a fluke I guess. We just came up with a new idea," said Gary Nystedt, the city's resource manager. "But people are excited about it, and participating." So far, about 65 people have invested in the project that now stands at 36 kilowatts, enough power for 10 homes a year. The city expects to expand the system to 165 kilowatts. As more people invest, the city will buy more modules, thereby ensuring individuals' investments don't decline, Nystedt said. He estimates it will take an investor 15 years to recoup his or her money at today's power prices. Solar modules today generally have a lifespan of about 25 years. "The payback is still quite long," he said, but added, "Our contributors are investing in the future, where we are going to get our power in 10, 20 years." Customers who buy in also own their investment and could include it as part of the sale of their home or transfer it to another entity, such as a church. Helen Wise, a retired biology professor, invested $4,500. "Even if I didn't have that incentive, it's important to me," Wise said. "I think I bought probably the first hybrid car in town, and my other car was still good." Communities across Washington, Oregon and California have called Nystedt to get more information about the project. They include Frantz, the Sacramento planner whose city opted to pursue a system that isn't customer-owned. "They're doing it for love, not for the money," he said of Ellensburg. "And you can't base a national energy scale on love and not money." The cost for solar power is typically about 25 cents per kilowatt hour, compared with about 4.5 cents for natural gas and 4-5 cents for hydropower, according to Mike Nelson, director of the Northwest Solar Center, part of Washington State University's energy program. However, there isn't any additional hydropower available to purchase, and no utility can sign a 30-year contract for natural gas, he said. If anything, the Northwest has been slow to realize its solar potential. Puget Sound Energy's project is one-tenth the size of the largest system in the nation in Arizona, and Washington state residents have installed twice as much solar power at their homes in the past year alone. "What (Puget Sound Energy) is doing is a nice big leap," Nelson said. "But the fact is, the public has already leapt twice as far." Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/tech/7485622.html	Rural Ky. is home to 'Geek Squad' center | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Technology Rural Ky. is home to 'Geek Squad' center The Geek Squad team looses a couple of wheels and takes a tumble, but recovers by carrying their bed all the way to the finish line during The Kentucky Derby Festival Great Bed Races in Louisville, Ky., on Monday, April 30, 2007. Story Published: May 13, 2007 at 12:29 PM PDT Story Updated: May 13, 2007 at 12:29 PM PDT HILLVIEW, Ky. (AP) - The nation's top electronics retailer didn't pick Silicon Valley, India or another high-tech hub to build its hospital for personal computers. It chose the Kentucky countryside, known more for race horses and bourbon distilleries than geeks and microprocessors. Geek Squad, the quirky PC service division of Best Buy Co., opened its 165,000-square-foot Geek Squad City warehouse just south of Louisville late last year with a goal of cutting the time it takes to repair and return PCs - especially laptops. ''This is all about giving the customer a better experience,'' said Michael Rodgers, Geek Squad City's ''ambassador,'' or spokesman. Computers with broken motherboards, hard drives with death rattles and virus infections begin streaming into the warehouse at 5 a.m. from a nearby UPS air hub in Louisville, one of the key reasons that the business was built here, said Wes Snyder, Geek Squad City's top manager, or ''mayor.'' Snyder said the nearby city offered a tech-savvy work force. The state also offered tax benefits worth up to $9.3 million. Inside the facility's sprawling repair room, PC parts and precision tools are spread over the rows and rows of desks where hundreds of computer techs - Geek Squad's ''agents'' - fix more than 2,000 laptops a day. More than 700,000 PCs will be repaired here this year, Rodgers said. Laptops are the majority of personal computers sold nowadays, and the smaller and more advanced they get, the more complicated the repairs. The portable PCs also endure more abuse than their larger desktop cousins, getting dinged, dropped and splashed with coffee. ''They're getting down to where you need watchmaker tools and very special expertise. It's not just swapping out a disk drive anymore,'' said Richard Doherty, president of The Envisioneering Group, a research company. About half the laptops are repaired on the same day they arrive at Geek Squad City, but the average time is about three days, Rodgers said. Rob Enderle, an analyst with the Enderle Group research company, said the turnaround time is faster than any other computer retailer. ''From a store perspective, I'm not aware of anyone else doing this,'' he said. Original or direct manufacturers, like Dell, can typically repair and return a PC in about that time, Enderle added. Circuit City Stores Inc., Best Buy's main competitor in the electronics retail market, launched its own PC repair service, called Firedog, in October. It offers in-home and in-store service, similar to Geek Squad. Circuit City declined to comment on Geek Squad City. ''Oftentimes what an industry leader like a Best Buy does is force others people to kind of follow,'' said Samir Bhavnani, a research director with Current Analysis. Most of the thousands of computers sent to Geek Squad City could not be fixed by employees at Best Buy locations, typically because the store didn't have the proper parts. Best Buy is considering shipping additional parts to the stores, but for now the computers go to the Kentucky warehouse, Rodgers said. Swift repair time is crucial in an industry with customers who don't want to be away from their private files. ''Laptops are very personal and people don't like a personal element of their life to be out of their reach for two or three or 10 days,'' Doherty said. Some smaller, independent tech support companies forego shipping computers and have instead built their business around online troubleshooting services. HiWired.com, a small Massachusetts company, repairs computers with a remote screen-sharing technology, said Singu Srinivas, its co-founder. A typical service call costs from $75 to $100, he said. ''What we've found is 93 percent of problems can be actually solved remotely,'' Srinivas said, ''because most of the problems people have these days are less, 'My key is stuck on my keyboard,' but more about, 'I saw a new piece of software on the Internet, and my PC was working fine before that, but now it's running sluggish.''' Srinivas said consumer computer service and repair is a $15 billion a year industry and growing. Geek Squad's pseudo-serious image - high-tech culture with a dab of intrigue straight out of a 1950s spy novel - is embraced by Geek Squad City's 600 employees, who carry titles like ''counter intelligence agent'' and ''commissioner.'' Founded in 1994 in Minnesota by Robert Stephens, the company began with house calls to customers with computer woes. Stephens sold it to Best Buy in 2002. Best Buy offers Geek Squad service packages that range from $29 to $299. They also fix computers not bought at it stores. There are no customer walk-ins here, but employees still don the standard issue black-tie and pants with white, short-sleeved dress shirts. About 350 of the facility's workers are ''agents'' or computer technicians, most from nearby Louisville. Rodgers said the facility is already planning to hire another 350 workers at wages ranging from $9.50 to $31.50 an hour. Though it's been open since October, management is constantly streamlining methods. ''I've never found a problem that somebody here couldn't fix,'' said Justin Meade, a 21-year-old who works at Geek Squad City. ''We kind of relish in that.'' Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/tech/7485622.html	Rural Ky. is home to 'Geek Squad' center | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Technology Rural Ky. is home to 'Geek Squad' center The Geek Squad team looses a couple of wheels and takes a tumble, but recovers by carrying their bed all the way to the finish line during The Kentucky Derby Festival Great Bed Races in Louisville, Ky., on Monday, April 30, 2007. Story Published: May 13, 2007 at 12:29 PM PDT Story Updated: May 13, 2007 at 12:29 PM PDT HILLVIEW, Ky. (AP) - The nation's top electronics retailer didn't pick Silicon Valley, India or another high-tech hub to build its hospital for personal computers. It chose the Kentucky countryside, known more for race horses and bourbon distilleries than geeks and microprocessors. Geek Squad, the quirky PC service division of Best Buy Co., opened its 165,000-square-foot Geek Squad City warehouse just south of Louisville late last year with a goal of cutting the time it takes to repair and return PCs - especially laptops. ''This is all about giving the customer a better experience,'' said Michael Rodgers, Geek Squad City's ''ambassador,'' or spokesman. Computers with broken motherboards, hard drives with death rattles and virus infections begin streaming into the warehouse at 5 a.m. from a nearby UPS air hub in Louisville, one of the key reasons that the business was built here, said Wes Snyder, Geek Squad City's top manager, or ''mayor.'' Snyder said the nearby city offered a tech-savvy work force. The state also offered tax benefits worth up to $9.3 million. Inside the facility's sprawling repair room, PC parts and precision tools are spread over the rows and rows of desks where hundreds of computer techs - Geek Squad's ''agents'' - fix more than 2,000 laptops a day. More than 700,000 PCs will be repaired here this year, Rodgers said. Laptops are the majority of personal computers sold nowadays, and the smaller and more advanced they get, the more complicated the repairs. The portable PCs also endure more abuse than their larger desktop cousins, getting dinged, dropped and splashed with coffee. ''They're getting down to where you need watchmaker tools and very special expertise. It's not just swapping out a disk drive anymore,'' said Richard Doherty, president of The Envisioneering Group, a research company. About half the laptops are repaired on the same day they arrive at Geek Squad City, but the average time is about three days, Rodgers said. Rob Enderle, an analyst with the Enderle Group research company, said the turnaround time is faster than any other computer retailer. ''From a store perspective, I'm not aware of anyone else doing this,'' he said. Original or direct manufacturers, like Dell, can typically repair and return a PC in about that time, Enderle added. Circuit City Stores Inc., Best Buy's main competitor in the electronics retail market, launched its own PC repair service, called Firedog, in October. It offers in-home and in-store service, similar to Geek Squad. Circuit City declined to comment on Geek Squad City. ''Oftentimes what an industry leader like a Best Buy does is force others people to kind of follow,'' said Samir Bhavnani, a research director with Current Analysis. Most of the thousands of computers sent to Geek Squad City could not be fixed by employees at Best Buy locations, typically because the store didn't have the proper parts. Best Buy is considering shipping additional parts to the stores, but for now the computers go to the Kentucky warehouse, Rodgers said. Swift repair time is crucial in an industry with customers who don't want to be away from their private files. ''Laptops are very personal and people don't like a personal element of their life to be out of their reach for two or three or 10 days,'' Doherty said. Some smaller, independent tech support companies forego shipping computers and have instead built their business around online troubleshooting services. HiWired.com, a small Massachusetts company, repairs computers with a remote screen-sharing technology, said Singu Srinivas, its co-founder. A typical service call costs from $75 to $100, he said. ''What we've found is 93 percent of problems can be actually solved remotely,'' Srinivas said, ''because most of the problems people have these days are less, 'My key is stuck on my keyboard,' but more about, 'I saw a new piece of software on the Internet, and my PC was working fine before that, but now it's running sluggish.''' Srinivas said consumer computer service and repair is a $15 billion a year industry and growing. Geek Squad's pseudo-serious image - high-tech culture with a dab of intrigue straight out of a 1950s spy novel - is embraced by Geek Squad City's 600 employees, who carry titles like ''counter intelligence agent'' and ''commissioner.'' Founded in 1994 in Minnesota by Robert Stephens, the company began with house calls to customers with computer woes. Stephens sold it to Best Buy in 2002. Best Buy offers Geek Squad service packages that range from $29 to $299. They also fix computers not bought at it stores. There are no customer walk-ins here, but employees still don the standard issue black-tie and pants with white, short-sleeved dress shirts. About 350 of the facility's workers are ''agents'' or computer technicians, most from nearby Louisville. Rodgers said the facility is already planning to hire another 350 workers at wages ranging from $9.50 to $31.50 an hour. Though it's been open since October, management is constantly streamlining methods. ''I've never found a problem that somebody here couldn't fix,'' said Justin Meade, a 21-year-old who works at Geek Squad City. ''We kind of relish in that.'' Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/tech/7494327.html	Space shuttle set to return to launch pad on Tuesday | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Technology Space shuttle set to return to launch pad on Tuesday In this May 9, 2007 photo, a technician adjusts a sander while working to repair the hail damage to space shuttle Atlantis' nose cone. Story Published: May 14, 2007 at 8:02 AM PDT Story Updated: May 14, 2007 at 8:02 AM PDT CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. (AP) - NASA managers on Friday approved moving Atlantis to the launch pad in hopes that a June launch will return the space shuttle program to a regular flight schedule after a six-month hiatus. Technicians planned to haul Atlantis to the launch pad as soon as Tuesday if technicians can quickly remove the scaffolding that was used while thousands of dings from hail were repaired in the foam insulation on the shuttle's external fuel tank. Golf ball-size hailstones damaged the insulation during a storm in February while the tank sat on the launch pad, forcing NASA to delay Atlantis' launch from mid-March to no earlier than June 8. "I promise you, it's absolutely ready to go," John Chapman, NASA's manager of the external tank project, said Friday. Atlantis has been in the Vehicle Assembly Building for the repairs. The technicians sprayed on new insulation foam in some areas, hand-poured foam on other areas and sanded down other foam so it blended in with surrounding areas. A final decision on when to launch Atlantis will be made at the end of the month. Astronaut Clayton Anderson has been added to the six-man shuttle crew so he can replace U.S. astronaut Sunita Williams on the international space station. No space shuttle has flown since Discovery returned from a trip to the space station last December. The Atlantis crew will deliver a 17½-ton addition to the station's truss system and go on three spacewalks. Foam debris coming off the external fuel tank is of special concern to NASA since the seven astronauts aboard Columbia perished when a piece of foam from the tank struck a wing during launch, allowing fiery gases to penetrate the spacecraft while returning to Earth. During the delay, technicians also removed Atlantis' three engines to check for tiny pieces of rubber in propellant lines that were found in Discovery last December. A minuscule piece of rubber was removed from a propellant line in Atlantis. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/tech/7494327.html	Space shuttle set to return to launch pad on Tuesday | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Technology Space shuttle set to return to launch pad on Tuesday In this May 9, 2007 photo, a technician adjusts a sander while working to repair the hail damage to space shuttle Atlantis' nose cone. Story Published: May 14, 2007 at 8:02 AM PDT Story Updated: May 14, 2007 at 8:02 AM PDT CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. (AP) - NASA managers on Friday approved moving Atlantis to the launch pad in hopes that a June launch will return the space shuttle program to a regular flight schedule after a six-month hiatus. Technicians planned to haul Atlantis to the launch pad as soon as Tuesday if technicians can quickly remove the scaffolding that was used while thousands of dings from hail were repaired in the foam insulation on the shuttle's external fuel tank. Golf ball-size hailstones damaged the insulation during a storm in February while the tank sat on the launch pad, forcing NASA to delay Atlantis' launch from mid-March to no earlier than June 8. "I promise you, it's absolutely ready to go," John Chapman, NASA's manager of the external tank project, said Friday. Atlantis has been in the Vehicle Assembly Building for the repairs. The technicians sprayed on new insulation foam in some areas, hand-poured foam on other areas and sanded down other foam so it blended in with surrounding areas. A final decision on when to launch Atlantis will be made at the end of the month. Astronaut Clayton Anderson has been added to the six-man shuttle crew so he can replace U.S. astronaut Sunita Williams on the international space station. No space shuttle has flown since Discovery returned from a trip to the space station last December. The Atlantis crew will deliver a 17½-ton addition to the station's truss system and go on three spacewalks. Foam debris coming off the external fuel tank is of special concern to NASA since the seven astronauts aboard Columbia perished when a piece of foam from the tank struck a wing during launch, allowing fiery gases to penetrate the spacecraft while returning to Earth. During the delay, technicians also removed Atlantis' three engines to check for tiny pieces of rubber in propellant lines that were found in Discovery last December. A minuscule piece of rubber was removed from a propellant line in Atlantis. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/tech/7494812.html	Satellite launch for Nigeria marks expansion for China's commercial launching | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Technology Satellite launch for Nigeria marks expansion for China's commercial launching Story Published: May 14, 2007 at 8:30 AM PDT Story Updated: May 14, 2007 at 8:30 AM PDT BEIJING (AP) - A Chinese rocket blasted a Nigerian communications satellite into orbit on Monday, marking an expansion of China's commercial launching services for foreign space hardware, state media said. The official Xinhua News Agency said it was the first time a foreign buyer has purchased a Chinese satellite and its launching service. The launch coincides with the opening of the African Development Bank's annual board meeting in Shanghai this week, reflecting growing African-Chinese ties. The Nigerian Communication Satellite, or NIGCOMSAT-1, was launched by a Long March 3-B rocket from the Xichang Satellite Launch Center in southwest China's Sichuan province early Monday, Xinhua said. The launch was part of a $311 million deal signed by China and Nigeria in 2004, and the satellite will be used to expand cell phone and Internet services in central Africa, Xinhua said. China has been commissioned to send about 30 foreign satellites into space and signed several contracts offering commercial launching services for foreign satellites, including one with Venezuela, it said. The satellite, which was developed by the China Aerospace Science and Technology Corp., will be monitored and tracked by China's Great Wall Industry Corp., it said. Xinhua said the launch represented "China's wish to cooperate with developing countries in the peaceful use of outer space and to promote a closer relationship between China and African countries." Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/tech/7494812.html	Satellite launch for Nigeria marks expansion for China's commercial launching | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Technology Satellite launch for Nigeria marks expansion for China's commercial launching Story Published: May 14, 2007 at 8:30 AM PDT Story Updated: May 14, 2007 at 8:30 AM PDT BEIJING (AP) - A Chinese rocket blasted a Nigerian communications satellite into orbit on Monday, marking an expansion of China's commercial launching services for foreign space hardware, state media said. The official Xinhua News Agency said it was the first time a foreign buyer has purchased a Chinese satellite and its launching service. The launch coincides with the opening of the African Development Bank's annual board meeting in Shanghai this week, reflecting growing African-Chinese ties. The Nigerian Communication Satellite, or NIGCOMSAT-1, was launched by a Long March 3-B rocket from the Xichang Satellite Launch Center in southwest China's Sichuan province early Monday, Xinhua said. The launch was part of a $311 million deal signed by China and Nigeria in 2004, and the satellite will be used to expand cell phone and Internet services in central Africa, Xinhua said. China has been commissioned to send about 30 foreign satellites into space and signed several contracts offering commercial launching services for foreign satellites, including one with Venezuela, it said. The satellite, which was developed by the China Aerospace Science and Technology Corp., will be monitored and tracked by China's Great Wall Industry Corp., it said. Xinhua said the launch represented "China's wish to cooperate with developing countries in the peaceful use of outer space and to promote a closer relationship between China and African countries." Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/tech/7495037.html	Military blocking soldiers' access to YouTube, MySpace | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Technology Military blocking soldiers' access to YouTube, MySpace Soldiers from 4th Brigade, 1st Infantry Division react to one of several house fires in Baghdad, Iraq Tuesday, May 8, 2007. Story Published: May 14, 2007 at 8:42 AM PDT Story Updated: May 14, 2007 at 8:42 AM PDT DENVER (AP) - Soldiers serving overseas will lose some of their online links to friends and loved ones back home under a Department of Defense policy that a high-ranking Army official said would take effect Monday. The Defense Department will begin blocking access "worldwide" to YouTube, MySpace and 11 other popular Web sites on its computers and networks, according to a memo sent Friday by Gen. B.B. Bell, the U.S. Forces Korea commander. The policy is being implemented to protect information and reduce drag on the department's networks, according to Bell. "This recreational traffic impacts our official DoD network and bandwidth ability, while posing a significant operational security challenge," the memo said. The armed services have long barred members of the military from sharing information that could jeopardize their missions or safety, whether electronically or by other means. The new policy is different because it creates a blanket ban on several sites used by military personnel to exchange messages, pictures, video and audio with family and friends. Members of the military can still access the sites on their own computers and networks, but Defense Department computers and networks are the only ones available to many soldiers and sailors in Iraq and Afghanistan. Iraqi insurgents or their supporters have been posting videos on YouTube at least since last fall. The Army recently began posting videos on YouTube showing soldiers defeating insurgents and befriending Iraqis. But the new rules mean many military personnel won't be able to watch those achievements - at least not on military computers. If the restrictions are intended to prevent soldiers from giving or receiving bad news, they could also prevent them from providing positive reports from the field, said Noah Shachtman, who runs a national security blog for Wired Magazine. "This is as much an information war as it is bombs and bullets," he said. "And they are muzzling their best voices." The sites covered by the ban are the video-sharing sites YouTube, Metacafe, IFilm, StupidVideos, and FileCabi, the social networking sites MySpace, BlackPlanet and Hi5, music sites Pandora, MTV, and 1.fm, and live365, and the photo-sharing site Photobucket. Several companies have instituted similar bans, saying recreational sites drain productivity. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/tech/7495037.html	Military blocking soldiers' access to YouTube, MySpace | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Technology Military blocking soldiers' access to YouTube, MySpace Soldiers from 4th Brigade, 1st Infantry Division react to one of several house fires in Baghdad, Iraq Tuesday, May 8, 2007. Story Published: May 14, 2007 at 8:42 AM PDT Story Updated: May 14, 2007 at 8:42 AM PDT DENVER (AP) - Soldiers serving overseas will lose some of their online links to friends and loved ones back home under a Department of Defense policy that a high-ranking Army official said would take effect Monday. The Defense Department will begin blocking access "worldwide" to YouTube, MySpace and 11 other popular Web sites on its computers and networks, according to a memo sent Friday by Gen. B.B. Bell, the U.S. Forces Korea commander. The policy is being implemented to protect information and reduce drag on the department's networks, according to Bell. "This recreational traffic impacts our official DoD network and bandwidth ability, while posing a significant operational security challenge," the memo said. The armed services have long barred members of the military from sharing information that could jeopardize their missions or safety, whether electronically or by other means. The new policy is different because it creates a blanket ban on several sites used by military personnel to exchange messages, pictures, video and audio with family and friends. Members of the military can still access the sites on their own computers and networks, but Defense Department computers and networks are the only ones available to many soldiers and sailors in Iraq and Afghanistan. Iraqi insurgents or their supporters have been posting videos on YouTube at least since last fall. The Army recently began posting videos on YouTube showing soldiers defeating insurgents and befriending Iraqis. But the new rules mean many military personnel won't be able to watch those achievements - at least not on military computers. If the restrictions are intended to prevent soldiers from giving or receiving bad news, they could also prevent them from providing positive reports from the field, said Noah Shachtman, who runs a national security blog for Wired Magazine. "This is as much an information war as it is bombs and bullets," he said. "And they are muzzling their best voices." The sites covered by the ban are the video-sharing sites YouTube, Metacafe, IFilm, StupidVideos, and FileCabi, the social networking sites MySpace, BlackPlanet and Hi5, music sites Pandora, MTV, and 1.fm, and live365, and the photo-sharing site Photobucket. Several companies have instituted similar bans, saying recreational sites drain productivity. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/tech/7512802.html	Shuttle starts trip back to launch pad after repairs | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Technology Shuttle starts trip back to launch pad after repairs Story Published: May 15, 2007 at 8:38 AM PDT Story Updated: May 15, 2007 at 8:38 AM PDT CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. (AP) - After 2½ months of repairs to its external fuel tank, space shuttle Atlantis on Tuesday began a slow journey back to the launch pad in anticipation of lifting off in early June on a construction mission to the international space station. The 3.4-mile trip from the Vehicle Assembly Building aboard the massive crawler-transporter started just after 5 a.m. and was expected to last seven hours. The last time Atlantis made this trip was in February. The shuttle was on its launch pad when a freak hail storm swept through and pounded fuel tank with golf ball-sized hail that left thousands of dings in the tank's insulating foam. NASA managers postponed a mid-March launch and ordered the shuttle returned to the Vehicle Assembly Building for repairs. It was the 17th time in the 26-year-old shuttle program that one of the vehicles had to be moved back to the Vehicle Assembly Building from the launch pad. Technicians sprayed on new insulation foam in some areas, hand-poured foam on other areas and sanded down other foam so it blended in with surrounding areas. One technician even designed and built in a week a special tool that could be used to apply new foam. When the shuttle rolled out Tuesday, the orange tank had hundreds of white speckles at the top showing their work. The launch is now planned for no earlier than June 8. A final decision will be made at the end of the month. "It's a real success story - almost bordering on an Apollo 13 type story to develop that in such a short time," John Chapman, NASA's manager of the external tank project, said last week, referring to the engineering ingenuity that delivered the moon-bound crew safely back to Earth in 1970 after an oxygen tank ruptured on the spacecraft. Foam debris coming off the external fuel tank has been of special concern to NASA since the seven astronauts aboard Columbia perished when a piece of foam from the tank struck a wing during launch, allowing fiery gases to penetrate the space shuttle while returning to Earth. Astronaut Clayton Anderson has been added to the previously six-man Atlantis crew so he can replace U.S. astronaut Sunita Williams on the international space station. Until the shuttle arrives, Williams and her colleagues at the space station will make do with 2½ tons of fuel, air, water and other supplies that were delivered Tuesday by a Russian cargo vehicle. NASA managers hope Atlantis' launch puts the space agency back on a regular schedule of shuttle missions after a five-month hiatus. The last space shuttle flight was in December, and three more missions are scheduled for this year after Atlantis. The space agency has at least 14 more missions to finish building the space station and repair the Hubble Space Telescope before the shuttle fleet is grounded in 2010. The next-generation spacecraft, Orion, isn't scheduled to fly astronauts until 2015. Last week, leaders of almost two dozen aerospace companies sent a letter to members of Congress urging them to support funding NASA an additional $1.4 billion above the administration's 2008 budget request of $17.3 billion to narrow the gap when the United States won't have manned spaceflights. "Future U.S. leadership in space is at stake," the letter said. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/tech/7512802.html	Shuttle starts trip back to launch pad after repairs | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Technology Shuttle starts trip back to launch pad after repairs Story Published: May 15, 2007 at 8:38 AM PDT Story Updated: May 15, 2007 at 8:38 AM PDT CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. (AP) - After 2½ months of repairs to its external fuel tank, space shuttle Atlantis on Tuesday began a slow journey back to the launch pad in anticipation of lifting off in early June on a construction mission to the international space station. The 3.4-mile trip from the Vehicle Assembly Building aboard the massive crawler-transporter started just after 5 a.m. and was expected to last seven hours. The last time Atlantis made this trip was in February. The shuttle was on its launch pad when a freak hail storm swept through and pounded fuel tank with golf ball-sized hail that left thousands of dings in the tank's insulating foam. NASA managers postponed a mid-March launch and ordered the shuttle returned to the Vehicle Assembly Building for repairs. It was the 17th time in the 26-year-old shuttle program that one of the vehicles had to be moved back to the Vehicle Assembly Building from the launch pad. Technicians sprayed on new insulation foam in some areas, hand-poured foam on other areas and sanded down other foam so it blended in with surrounding areas. One technician even designed and built in a week a special tool that could be used to apply new foam. When the shuttle rolled out Tuesday, the orange tank had hundreds of white speckles at the top showing their work. The launch is now planned for no earlier than June 8. A final decision will be made at the end of the month. "It's a real success story - almost bordering on an Apollo 13 type story to develop that in such a short time," John Chapman, NASA's manager of the external tank project, said last week, referring to the engineering ingenuity that delivered the moon-bound crew safely back to Earth in 1970 after an oxygen tank ruptured on the spacecraft. Foam debris coming off the external fuel tank has been of special concern to NASA since the seven astronauts aboard Columbia perished when a piece of foam from the tank struck a wing during launch, allowing fiery gases to penetrate the space shuttle while returning to Earth. Astronaut Clayton Anderson has been added to the previously six-man Atlantis crew so he can replace U.S. astronaut Sunita Williams on the international space station. Until the shuttle arrives, Williams and her colleagues at the space station will make do with 2½ tons of fuel, air, water and other supplies that were delivered Tuesday by a Russian cargo vehicle. NASA managers hope Atlantis' launch puts the space agency back on a regular schedule of shuttle missions after a five-month hiatus. The last space shuttle flight was in December, and three more missions are scheduled for this year after Atlantis. The space agency has at least 14 more missions to finish building the space station and repair the Hubble Space Telescope before the shuttle fleet is grounded in 2010. The next-generation spacecraft, Orion, isn't scheduled to fly astronauts until 2015. Last week, leaders of almost two dozen aerospace companies sent a letter to members of Congress urging them to support funding NASA an additional $1.4 billion above the administration's 2008 budget request of $17.3 billion to narrow the gap when the United States won't have manned spaceflights. "Future U.S. leadership in space is at stake," the letter said. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/tech/7485637.html	Music piracy crackdown nets college kids | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Technology Music piracy crackdown nets college kids Story Published: May 13, 2007 at 12:32 PM PDT Story Updated: May 13, 2007 at 12:32 PM PDT LINCOLN, Neb. (AP) - At first, Sarah Barg thought the e-mail was a scam. Some group called the Recording Industry Association of America was accusing the University of Nebraska-Lincoln sophomore of illegally downloading 381 songs using the school's computer network and a program called Ares. The letter said she might be sued but offered her the chance to settle out of court. Barg couldn't imagine anyone expected her to pay $3,000 - $7.87 per song - for some 1980s ballads and Spice Girls tunes she downloaded for laughs in her dorm room. Besides, the 20-year-old had friends who had downloaded thousands of songs without repercussion. ''Obviously I knew it was illegal, but no one got in trouble for it,'' Barg said. But Barg's perspective changed quickly that Thursday in March, when she called student legal services and found out the e-mail was no joke and that she had a pricey decision to make. Barg is one of 61 students at UNL and hundreds at more than 60 college campuses across the country who have received letters from the recording industry group, threatening a lawsuit if they don't settle out of court. ''Any student on any campus in the country who is illegally downloading music may receive one of these letters in the coming months,'' said Jenni Engebretsen, an RIAA spokeswoman. Barg's parents paid the $3,000 settlement. Without their help, ''I don't know what I would have done. I'm only 20 years old,'' she said. At least 500 university students nationwide have paid settlements to avoid being sued, Engebretsen said. Students who don't take the offer face lawsuits _ and minimum damages of $750 for each copyrighted recording shared if they lose. UNL officials have been told 32 more letters are on the way. At least 17 UNL students who did not take the settlement offer have been sued, according to the RIAA, although the university has been asked to forward only five subpoenas. But the students coughing up the cash question why they're the ones getting in trouble. ''They're targeting the worst people,'' UNL freshman Andrew Johnson, who also settled for $3,000. ''Legally, it probably makes sense, because we don't have the money to fight.'' Johnson got his e-mail in February, with the recording industry group's first wave of letters targeting college students. He had downloaded 100 songs on a program called LimeWire using the university network. The money to settle came from the 18-year-old's college fund. He'll work three jobs this summer to pay back the money. Johnson compares what he did to people driving 5 miles per hour over the speed limit. ''It's not like I downloaded millions of songs and sold them to people,'' Johnson said. But just one song can bring a lawsuit, Engebretsen said. ''It is important to send the message that this is illegal, you can be caught, and there are consequences,'' she said. The industry realizes attitudes need changing, and money from the settlements is reinvested in educational programs schools and other groups can use to spread the word that song sharing can have severe consequences. Some of the programs are tailored to start with third-graders. ''We do recognize that by the time students reach college, many of their music habits are already formed,'' Engebretsen said. Earlier this month, members of Congress sent a letter to officials from 19 universities, including UNL, asking for information about schools' anti-piracy policies. According to the letter, more than half of college students download copyrighted music and movies. The information requested is intended to help assess whether Congress needs to advance legislation to ensure illegal downloading ''is no longer commonly associated with student life on some U.S. campuses,'' the letter says. Barg is still angry about her letter from the recording industry group, which she calls bullying. But she agrees sharing music is common, and that other students don't understand the consequences. ''Technically, I'm guilty. I just think it's ridiculous, the way they're going about it,'' Barg said. ''We have to find a way to adjust our legal policy to take into account this new technology, and so far, they're not doing a very good job.'' Barg thinks the university should send an e-mail to all students, warning them that the recording industry won't look the other way. As campus clears out for the summer, UNL officials are considering launching a new educational campaign in the fall. ''If we can do anything to help educate students about what illegal file-sharing is, we're willing and interested in doing that,'' said Kelly Bartling, a university spokeswoman. Bartling said no one wants students to have to worry about how to pay tuition because of an expensive settlement. ''It is a hugely expensive lesson,'' Bartling said. Johnson, the UNL freshman, doesn't think the threats from the recording industry group are going to solve the problem. Friends who know he got in trouble still share music online. ''People are still going to do it until they get caught, and they can't catch everyone,'' Johnson said. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/tech/7485637.html	Music piracy crackdown nets college kids | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Technology Music piracy crackdown nets college kids Story Published: May 13, 2007 at 12:32 PM PDT Story Updated: May 13, 2007 at 12:32 PM PDT LINCOLN, Neb. (AP) - At first, Sarah Barg thought the e-mail was a scam. Some group called the Recording Industry Association of America was accusing the University of Nebraska-Lincoln sophomore of illegally downloading 381 songs using the school's computer network and a program called Ares. The letter said she might be sued but offered her the chance to settle out of court. Barg couldn't imagine anyone expected her to pay $3,000 - $7.87 per song - for some 1980s ballads and Spice Girls tunes she downloaded for laughs in her dorm room. Besides, the 20-year-old had friends who had downloaded thousands of songs without repercussion. ''Obviously I knew it was illegal, but no one got in trouble for it,'' Barg said. But Barg's perspective changed quickly that Thursday in March, when she called student legal services and found out the e-mail was no joke and that she had a pricey decision to make. Barg is one of 61 students at UNL and hundreds at more than 60 college campuses across the country who have received letters from the recording industry group, threatening a lawsuit if they don't settle out of court. ''Any student on any campus in the country who is illegally downloading music may receive one of these letters in the coming months,'' said Jenni Engebretsen, an RIAA spokeswoman. Barg's parents paid the $3,000 settlement. Without their help, ''I don't know what I would have done. I'm only 20 years old,'' she said. At least 500 university students nationwide have paid settlements to avoid being sued, Engebretsen said. Students who don't take the offer face lawsuits _ and minimum damages of $750 for each copyrighted recording shared if they lose. UNL officials have been told 32 more letters are on the way. At least 17 UNL students who did not take the settlement offer have been sued, according to the RIAA, although the university has been asked to forward only five subpoenas. But the students coughing up the cash question why they're the ones getting in trouble. ''They're targeting the worst people,'' UNL freshman Andrew Johnson, who also settled for $3,000. ''Legally, it probably makes sense, because we don't have the money to fight.'' Johnson got his e-mail in February, with the recording industry group's first wave of letters targeting college students. He had downloaded 100 songs on a program called LimeWire using the university network. The money to settle came from the 18-year-old's college fund. He'll work three jobs this summer to pay back the money. Johnson compares what he did to people driving 5 miles per hour over the speed limit. ''It's not like I downloaded millions of songs and sold them to people,'' Johnson said. But just one song can bring a lawsuit, Engebretsen said. ''It is important to send the message that this is illegal, you can be caught, and there are consequences,'' she said. The industry realizes attitudes need changing, and money from the settlements is reinvested in educational programs schools and other groups can use to spread the word that song sharing can have severe consequences. Some of the programs are tailored to start with third-graders. ''We do recognize that by the time students reach college, many of their music habits are already formed,'' Engebretsen said. Earlier this month, members of Congress sent a letter to officials from 19 universities, including UNL, asking for information about schools' anti-piracy policies. According to the letter, more than half of college students download copyrighted music and movies. The information requested is intended to help assess whether Congress needs to advance legislation to ensure illegal downloading ''is no longer commonly associated with student life on some U.S. campuses,'' the letter says. Barg is still angry about her letter from the recording industry group, which she calls bullying. But she agrees sharing music is common, and that other students don't understand the consequences. ''Technically, I'm guilty. I just think it's ridiculous, the way they're going about it,'' Barg said. ''We have to find a way to adjust our legal policy to take into account this new technology, and so far, they're not doing a very good job.'' Barg thinks the university should send an e-mail to all students, warning them that the recording industry won't look the other way. As campus clears out for the summer, UNL officials are considering launching a new educational campaign in the fall. ''If we can do anything to help educate students about what illegal file-sharing is, we're willing and interested in doing that,'' said Kelly Bartling, a university spokeswoman. Bartling said no one wants students to have to worry about how to pay tuition because of an expensive settlement. ''It is a hugely expensive lesson,'' Bartling said. Johnson, the UNL freshman, doesn't think the threats from the recording industry group are going to solve the problem. Friends who know he got in trouble still share music online. ''People are still going to do it until they get caught, and they can't catch everyone,'' Johnson said. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/tech/7494427.html	Colleges seeking recruits turn to student bloggers | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Technology Colleges seeking recruits turn to student bloggers Chris Smith, a sophomore at Ohio Dominican University, looks at his blog in his dorm room Tuesday, May 1, 2007, in Columbus, Ohio. Story Published: May 14, 2007 at 8:07 AM PDT Story Updated: May 14, 2007 at 8:07 AM PDT COLUMBUS, Ohio (AP) - Michael Chandler is a college student who's had it with parking tickets at Ball State University. "I swear that's where most of BSU's money comes from," Chandler groused recently on his blog. "They hand'em out left and right, without a care in the world." Far from getting irritated, Ball State University in Muncie, Ind., welcomes the blog. The school promotes the interactive online diary and several other unfiltered student blogs directly on its home page as a recruiting tool. Colleges seeking a competitive edge are increasingly enlisting and sometimes paying student bloggers to chronicle their lives online. The results run the gamut from insightful to boring, but the goal is the same: to find a new way to win the attention of the MySpace generation. "We found it a much freer, less constricting, far more believable way of letting prospective students glimpse what was going on on campus," said Seth Allen, dean of admissions at Dickinson College in Pennsylvania. Universities balance giving the bloggers the freedom to speak their mind while maintaining some control over content. Some, such as Dickinson, read postings before allowing them on the Web site to guard against offensive language. Others, like Ball State, say that defeats the purpose. Prospective students can easily compare students' thoughts with comments on online networking sites like MySpace or Facebook.com, said Nancy Prater, Ball State's Web coordinator. "If that doesn't match what they're saying on our blogs, there's a disconnect," Prater said. Colleges from Colgate University in upstate New York, a small liberal arts campus, to the University of Texas, one of the country's largest universities, now include links to student bloggers on their home pages. The emergence of the blogs is the next step in the evolution of admissions recruiting, said Barmak Nassirian, associate executive director for the American Association of Collegiate Registrars and Admissions Officers. First came glossy brochures. Next, huge Web sites packed with official information. Now, relatively uncensored blogs promote elements of university life, from the climbing wall at the rec center to the size of the rolls in the dining hall, he said. Chris Smith, a sophomore at Ohio Dominican University, posts lively weekly descriptions of his life as a college baseball player. He gets $20 a posting and has been unafraid to hide his preference for playing ball over going to class or criticizing professors for assigning too much homework. "Being in class is literally the last place you want to be at this time of the year," he wrote on April 12. Ohio Dominican, a small Roman Catholic college in Columbus, is among schools that decided not to allow blog readers to post comments out of fear of compromising online security. Traditionalists say that's not a real blog. More importantly, experts say, the best student blogs demand responses. "The very best ones are well-written, honest, authentic voices shining through and fully interactive, meaning you can knock out a response to something you read right away," said Stephanie Geyer of the consulting firm Noel-Levitz. Allowing outside comments was a priority at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology because it allows prospective students to ask questions anonymously they might not otherwise bring up, said Ben Jones, communications director for MIT's admissions' office. He estimates 50 inappropriate comments have been deleted from more than 28,000 postings. MIT has expanded its blogging program from three students three years ago to about 15 today. MIT didn't pay its bloggers at first, then relented when Jones saw how much work the students put in. He also worried about the credibility of paying bloggers until he saw that students were posting the good and the bad. They earn up to $40 a week. Surveys by Noel-Levitz have found that student blogs were among the top things prospective students wanted from college Web sites. The MIT bloggers average 15,000 to 20,000 hits per day from more than 5,000 unique visitors. Admitted students rank the blogs among the top three factors influencing their decision to attend MIT. Repeated references in student blogs to the small-town feel of Capital University in suburban Columbus drew high school senior Tishia Richardson to the liberal arts college. Now she's a student blogger, posting semi-rambling entries on a favorite campuswide stress reliever - called "Wicked Wednesday" - and praising the suburb's main drag for its multiple coffee shops. "Sometimes it's good to know about the little quirks of campus or what people are doing you wouldn't get on a regular campus visit," said Richardson, 18, a freshman majoring in social work. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye Family has questions after man is found dead 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Copper River salmon arrive in style Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/tech	KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Technology Wash. utility plans region's largest solar project Washington state's oldest utility plans to start building the largest solar project in the region next month, and a municipal utility in a small city known most for its rodeo is enlisting residents' help to expand its energy generation through the sun. Shuttle starts trip back to launch pad after repairs After 2½ months of repairs to its external fuel tank, space shuttle Atlantis on Tuesday began a slow journey back to the launch pad in anticipation of lifting off in early June on a construction mission to the international space station. Microsoft says Linux, Open Office, free e-mail step on patents Microsoft Corp. has given the most detailed description to date of the number of open-source computer programs it says infringe on its patents, but the company says it still prefers licensing deals with open-source developers, software distributors and users instead of legal action against them. Military blocking soldiers' access to YouTube, MySpace LEDs emerge to fight fluorescents Satellite launch for Nigeria marks expansion for China's commercial launching Colleges seeking recruits turn to student bloggers Space shuttle set to return to launch pad on Tuesday Music piracy crackdown nets college kids Rural Ky. is home to 'Geek Squad' center Mysterious object that fell from sky likely space junk Russian cargo ship blasts off to space Virtual travel: Around the world in 80 minutes Phoenix Mars Lander arrives at Kennedy Space Center NASA study: Eastern U.S. to get hotter Long-range eye-tracker knows when you look at ads Police use cell-tracking technology to find transplant patient in time for surgery NYC cab rides going high-tech, but many drivers opposed Yahoo will close its North American online auction service IBM aims to make big computing greener Scientists surprised by new information about Saturn's winds Scientists plan Web site to catalog all life on earth Comcast CEO shows off super fast cable modem Sprint sues to halt dial-in services Intel chief: Curbs on public satellite photos may be needed Microsoft's new Hotmail goes live Astronomers spot brightest star explosion ever Are you a technology Omnivore? Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Family has questions after man is found dead Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Copper River salmon arrive in style Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/tech/7494867.html	LEDs emerge to fight fluorescents | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Technology LEDs emerge to fight fluorescents This $50 LED floodlight from Lighting Science Group Corp. is shown Thursday, May 10, 2007 in New York. Story Published: May 14, 2007 at 8:32 AM PDT Story Updated: May 14, 2007 at 8:32 AM PDT NEW YORK (AP) - The light bulb, the symbol of bright ideas, doesn't look like such a great idea anymore, as lawmakers in the U.S. and abroad are talking about banning the century-old technology because of its contribution to global warming. But what comes next? Compact fluorescent bulbs are the only real alternative right now, but "bulbs" that use light-emitting diodes, or LEDs, are quickly emerging as a challenger. LEDs, which are small chips usually encased in a glass dome the size of a matchstick head, have been in use in electronics for decades to indicate, for example, whether a VCR is on or off. Those LEDs were usually red or green, but a scientific breakthrough in the 1990s paved the way for the production of LEDs that produce white light. Because they use less power than standard incandescent bulbs, white LEDs have become common in flashlights. Established players in the lighting industry and a host of startups are now grooming LEDs to take on the reigning champion of residential lighting, the familiar pear-shaped incandescent light bulb. The light bulb has been running out of friends recently. California and Canada have decided to ban the sale of incandescent bulbs by 2012. Australia is banning them in 2010. The European Union is looking at banning production of the bulbs. A U.S. Senate committee is working on a proposal that would phase out the light bulb in 10 years. And in New Jersey, where the first practical incandescent bulb emerged from Thomas Edison's laboratory in 1879, a bill has been introduced to ban their use in government buildings. Governments are gunning for the light bulb because it's much less efficient than fluorescents, using about five times more energy to produce the same amount of light. Lighting consumes 22 percent of electricity produced in the U.S., according to the Department of Energy, and widespread use of LED lighting could cut consumption in half. By 2027, LED lighting could cut annual energy use by the equivalent of 500 million barrels of oil, with the attendant reduction in emissions of carbon dioxide, the gas believed to be responsible for global warming. Much of that reduction would be possible with today's technology, using compact fluorescents, or CFLs. But consumers haven't warmed to them. The light quality hasn't been satisfactory, most take time to turn on and aren't dimmable. The LED has advantages over the CFL in most of those areas, and judging by this week's Lightfair trade show in New York, it could be a serious challenge to the CFL in a few years. What holds it back is chiefly price, but LEDs are already an economic alternative for niche uses. In the last two years, the diodes have doubled in energy efficiency and brightness, according to Greg Merritt, director of marketing for Durham, N.C.-based LED-manufacturer Cree Inc. In particular, LEDs that produce a yellowish or "warm" light similar to incandescents have improved. Dallas-based Lighting Science Group Corp. showed an LED "bulb" that screws into a standard medium-sized socket and produces a warm light equivalent to that of a 25-watt incandescent bulb, but consumes just 5.8 watts. It costs $50, hardly palatable to consumers who can buy a standard bulb for less than a dollar. Polybrite International, a startup in Naperville, Ill., announced that lighting giant Osram Sylvania, a subsidiary of Germany's Siemens AG, will distribute its LED "bulbs." The intended market is mainly commercial clients, who can afford to pay $15 to $85 per unit, according to Osram Sylvania marketing manager Constance Pineault. The energy efficiency is no doubt a draw for commercial clients like hotels, but LEDs have another big advantage: they last up to 50,000 hours, according to manufacturers. That compares to about 10,000 hours for fluorescents and 1,000 hours for incandescents. Not having to send out janitors to replace burned-out bulbs means big savings in maintenance costs. "Right now the applications that make sense are either high maintenance or high power consumption, like parking garages, where the lights are on all the time," said Cree's Merritt. LEDs already beat fluorescents for energy efficiency in some niche uses. For instance, Wal-Mart Stores Inc. is putting LED lighting in its in-store refrigerators, where the cold dims fluorescents and incandescents produce too much heat. LEDs also starting to replace flat fluorescent backlights in liquid-crystal displays, or LCDs, where they produce better colors. LEDs don't contain toxic mercury, which CFLs do, though the amount is very small. (Recent stories circulating on the Web about calling a hazmat team if a CFL breaks are exaggerated. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency recommends sweeping up, not vacuuming, the fragments, then checking out local recycling options.) The cost of LED lighting should be coming down quickly. Polybrite founder Carl Scianna said the cost of individual white-light diodes, several of which go into an LED bulb and make up much of the cost, have come down in price from about $8 to $1.50 in a year. "They're going to keep going down," Scianna said. "By the middle of next year, they'll be priced for consumers." Nadarajah Narendran, director of lighting research at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute in Troy, N.Y., cautions that there are still technical issues to work out with LEDs. While single LEDs can demonstrate very high energy efficiency in the lab, when they're combined into fixtures, their efficiency is considerably lower. In part that's a heat issue: the diodes produce less heat than incandescents, but they keep that heat in the fixture rather than radiating it, and the hotter the diodes get, the less efficient they are. He sees screwing LED bulbs into standard sockets "as a waste of talent" that doesn't utilize the inherent properties of LEDs, like their small size and longevity. "You could build them in as part of the furniture, part of the cabinetry," Narendran said. Because of their high prices, he doesn't believe LEDs will be ready to replace incandescents in all their uses for the next five to 10 years, but "LEDs, good or bad, will be growing very rapidly." Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye Family has questions after man is found dead 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Copper River salmon arrive in style Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/tech/7512787.html	Microsoft says Linux, Open Office, free e-mail step on patents | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Technology Microsoft says Linux, Open Office, free e-mail step on patents Story Published: May 15, 2007 at 8:36 AM PDT Story Updated: May 15, 2007 at 8:36 AM PDT SEATTLE (AP) - Microsoft Corp. has given the most detailed description to date of the number of open-source computer programs it says infringe on its patents, but the company says it still prefers licensing deals with open-source developers, software distributors and users instead of legal action against them. "There is no reason why any segment of the industry needs to be exempt from intellectual property rules," Horacio Gutierrez, a Microsoft vice president for intellectual property and licensing, said in an interview Monday. At the most basic level, open-source software is distributed free of charge to consumers or businesses to use on their computers, and to programmers to modify, build on, and distribute again - also for free. While proprietary software companies like Microsoft make money by selling licenses for programs, open-source companies give away the program and usually make money selling support services. Open-source programs step on 235 Microsoft patents, the company said. Free Linux software violates 42 patents. Graphical user interfaces, the way menus and windows look on the screen, breach 65. E-mail programs step on 15, and other programs touch 68 other patents, the company said. The patent figures were first reported by Fortune magazine. Microsoft also said Open Office, an open-source program supported in part by Sun Microsystems Inc., infringes on 45 patents. Sun declined to comment on the allegation. Microsoft is the dominant maker of software that powers servers and desktop PCs, but the company views the free or low-cost Linux operating system alternatives "with a great deal of concern," said Al Gillen, an analyst at the technology research group IDC. "It's one of the few operating systems that represents a viable threat that Microsoft has a great deal of difficulty containing," Gillen said, because the developers share their code. "Microsoft can't drive a company out of business and make Linux go away," the analyst said. Instead, Microsoft has struck a number of patent-licensing deals with companies that use open source code, most notably Novell Inc. last November. In one aspect of the deal, Microsoft agreed to sell Novell's flavor of Linux, called Suse. It also agreed not to sue the customers who bought it, even though it claims the open-source software infringes on its patents. "Microsoft could have chosen to litigate many years ago, but we have decided not to do that," Gutierrez said. Instead, in the interest of making sure programs that include open-source technology work well with Microsoft products and vice versa, the company will continue to pursue similar deals. Much of the open-source community was unhappy with the Novell deal, which it saw as a workaround to a widely used open-source license called the GNU General Public License. More broadly, the free software movement saw the deal as an attack on one of its core tenets. Under the public license, once open-source code is incorporated into another company's technology, the new product must also be freely available - a distribution model that Microsoft clearly doesn't support. "Now it becomes possible to divide and conquer our community," said Eben Moglen, an attorney for the Free Software Foundation, the entity behind the GNU license. By making a pact with Novell, Microsoft also implied that anyone who downloaded or bought Linux from another vendor was doing so illegally. The next version of the GNU license, currently in draft form, aims to stop similar deals in the future. Moglen said the draft states that if a company like Microsoft distributes open-source programs protected by the GNU license, it forfeits any related patent claims. Open-source proponents are frustrated by Microsoft's repeated allusions to patent violations because "they never say what patents being violated, never make any assertions, never put the evidence out there," said Larry Augustin, a technology startup investor who launched SourceForge.net, a prominent open-source development site, in 1999. But Augustin also acknowledged that it's not in Microsoft's interest to do so: Open-source programmers could rewrite their code to avoid infringing on specific patents, or the courts could find that Microsoft's patent isn't valid. If Microsoft were to start suing, it could also kick off a patent war on a grand scale. An organization called the Open Innovation Network, funded by IBM Corp., Red Hat Inc. and others, has amassed a vast number of software patents. In the event of a Microsoft lawsuit against open source companies or customers, the OIN would retaliate in kind. "We believe it's highly likely that Microsoft would infringe some of our patents," said Jerry Rosenthal, OIN's chief executive. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye Family has questions after man is found dead 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Copper River salmon arrive in style Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/tech/7512877.html	Wash. utility plans region's largest solar project | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Technology Wash. utility plans region's largest solar project Gary Nystedt, Ellensburg's resource manager, tours the first phase of the city's solar energy project in Ellensburg, Wash., Dec. 8, 2006. Story Published: May 15, 2007 at 8:42 AM PDT Story Updated: May 15, 2007 at 8:42 AM PDT ELLENSBURG, Wash. (AP) - Gray, gloomy rain. As much as Mount Rainier and salmon, drizzle is the staple image of the Pacific Northwest. The city of Seattle even broke a record last fall for precipitation in one month. But east of the Cascade Range, where sagebrush blooms in a desert climate, power companies see potential in sunshine. Washington state's oldest utility plans to start building the largest solar project in the region next month, and a municipal utility in a small city known most for its rodeo is enlisting residents' help to expand its energy generation through the sun. Already, communities up and down the West Coast are taking notice of a trend dampening notions about the Pacific Northwest. "Yes, it's not as good a deal in a state that gets less sun as it is in a state that sees more sunlight," said Stephen Frantz, a program planner for the Sacramento Municipal Utility District. "To compensate for that, you just have a strong environmental ethic in the Pacific Northwest." Sunlight has never really caught fire as a power source in the United States, comprising less than 1 percent of the power supply nationwide. Generating electricity with solar cells is usually more expensive and less efficient than some conventional sources. Much of the solar investment in the country has been made by people who live off the power grid, or by electricity customers whose utilities can install meters that credit residents for green power generated at their homes or businesses. But a number of factors are pushing utilities to look more closely at solar power, among them the rising cost of fossil fuels, environmental standards and state mandates for increasing renewable energy generation. At least 20 states, including Washington, have passed laws requiring utilities to boost their clean power sources. The secret about solar energy is that it's been increasing at well over 30 percent a year for about the past 10 years, said Brad Collins, executive director of the American Solar Energy Society, a nonprofit group that promotes renewable energy development. The increase has been fueled largely by government incentives, similar to those established in Germany in 2000 to expand renewable energy, Collins said. Germany now generates one-third of the world's wind power, and 50 percent of the solar modules produced worldwide are installed in the country, which sees less sunlight than Seattle. Japan also now provides significant incentives for solar power, pushing the United States to third in an area where 10 years ago, it led the field. "We are really in a global race to see who can develop and deploy these technologies the fastest," said Noah Kaye, director of public affairs for the Solar Energy Industries Association. "Renewable energy is going to drive a jobs boom and economic growth in the U.S., and states that set the policies designed to attract that growth are going to end up reaping the most benefits." The projects in the Northwest, long reliant on cheap hydropower, would seem to bear that out. Puget Sound Energy plans to start construction next month on a $3.7 million solar project next to its wind farm overlooking the Columbia River, about 115 miles east of Seattle. The 500-kilowatt project, enough to power about 300 homes, would easily be the biggest in the region. It's a small step - but an important step - toward an important goal, said Steve Emmert, PSE financial analyst. "People are very concerned about renewable energy and clean energy, and we really feel like this is something we need to be a leader on," Emmert said. The utility also is taking advantage of a $300,000 federal tax credit for investing in a project worth more than $1 million, before the credit expires at the end of the year, he said. Just west on Interstate 90, the municipal utility in the small city of Ellensburg doesn't qualify for such credits, but is pushing ahead with its own solar adventure anyway. Under its project, residents may invest a minimum of $250 toward the purchase of solar modules. The resulting power goes directly onto the utility's power lines, but residents receive a credit on their electricity bills. The utility, which has about 8,000 customers, maintains and operates the system. That allows residents who live in a shady area or who can't afford to spend thousands of dollars on rooftop modules to tap into green power. The project is widely believed to be the first of its kind in the nation. "It's a fluke I guess. We just came up with a new idea," said Gary Nystedt, the city's resource manager. "But people are excited about it, and participating." So far, about 65 people have invested in the project that now stands at 36 kilowatts, enough power for 10 homes a year. The city expects to expand the system to 165 kilowatts. As more people invest, the city will buy more modules, thereby ensuring individuals' investments don't decline, Nystedt said. He estimates it will take an investor 15 years to recoup his or her money at today's power prices. Solar modules today generally have a lifespan of about 25 years. "The payback is still quite long," he said, but added, "Our contributors are investing in the future, where we are going to get our power in 10, 20 years." Customers who buy in also own their investment and could include it as part of the sale of their home or transfer it to another entity, such as a church. Helen Wise, a retired biology professor, invested $4,500. "Even if I didn't have that incentive, it's important to me," Wise said. "I think I bought probably the first hybrid car in town, and my other car was still good." Communities across Washington, Oregon and California have called Nystedt to get more information about the project. They include Frantz, the Sacramento planner whose city opted to pursue a system that isn't customer-owned. "They're doing it for love, not for the money," he said of Ellensburg. "And you can't base a national energy scale on love and not money." The cost for solar power is typically about 25 cents per kilowatt hour, compared with about 4.5 cents for natural gas and 4-5 cents for hydropower, according to Mike Nelson, director of the Northwest Solar Center, part of Washington State University's energy program. However, there isn't any additional hydropower available to purchase, and no utility can sign a 30-year contract for natural gas, he said. If anything, the Northwest has been slow to realize its solar potential. Puget Sound Energy's project is one-tenth the size of the largest system in the nation in Arizona, and Washington state residents have installed twice as much solar power at their homes in the past year alone. "What (Puget Sound Energy) is doing is a nice big leap," Nelson said. "But the fact is, the public has already leapt twice as far." Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Family has questions after man is found dead Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Copper River salmon arrive in style Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/tech/7485622.html	Rural Ky. is home to 'Geek Squad' center | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Technology Rural Ky. is home to 'Geek Squad' center The Geek Squad team looses a couple of wheels and takes a tumble, but recovers by carrying their bed all the way to the finish line during The Kentucky Derby Festival Great Bed Races in Louisville, Ky., on Monday, April 30, 2007. Story Published: May 13, 2007 at 12:29 PM PDT Story Updated: May 13, 2007 at 12:29 PM PDT HILLVIEW, Ky. (AP) - The nation's top electronics retailer didn't pick Silicon Valley, India or another high-tech hub to build its hospital for personal computers. It chose the Kentucky countryside, known more for race horses and bourbon distilleries than geeks and microprocessors. Geek Squad, the quirky PC service division of Best Buy Co., opened its 165,000-square-foot Geek Squad City warehouse just south of Louisville late last year with a goal of cutting the time it takes to repair and return PCs - especially laptops. ''This is all about giving the customer a better experience,'' said Michael Rodgers, Geek Squad City's ''ambassador,'' or spokesman. Computers with broken motherboards, hard drives with death rattles and virus infections begin streaming into the warehouse at 5 a.m. from a nearby UPS air hub in Louisville, one of the key reasons that the business was built here, said Wes Snyder, Geek Squad City's top manager, or ''mayor.'' Snyder said the nearby city offered a tech-savvy work force. The state also offered tax benefits worth up to $9.3 million. Inside the facility's sprawling repair room, PC parts and precision tools are spread over the rows and rows of desks where hundreds of computer techs - Geek Squad's ''agents'' - fix more than 2,000 laptops a day. More than 700,000 PCs will be repaired here this year, Rodgers said. Laptops are the majority of personal computers sold nowadays, and the smaller and more advanced they get, the more complicated the repairs. The portable PCs also endure more abuse than their larger desktop cousins, getting dinged, dropped and splashed with coffee. ''They're getting down to where you need watchmaker tools and very special expertise. It's not just swapping out a disk drive anymore,'' said Richard Doherty, president of The Envisioneering Group, a research company. About half the laptops are repaired on the same day they arrive at Geek Squad City, but the average time is about three days, Rodgers said. Rob Enderle, an analyst with the Enderle Group research company, said the turnaround time is faster than any other computer retailer. ''From a store perspective, I'm not aware of anyone else doing this,'' he said. Original or direct manufacturers, like Dell, can typically repair and return a PC in about that time, Enderle added. Circuit City Stores Inc., Best Buy's main competitor in the electronics retail market, launched its own PC repair service, called Firedog, in October. It offers in-home and in-store service, similar to Geek Squad. Circuit City declined to comment on Geek Squad City. ''Oftentimes what an industry leader like a Best Buy does is force others people to kind of follow,'' said Samir Bhavnani, a research director with Current Analysis. Most of the thousands of computers sent to Geek Squad City could not be fixed by employees at Best Buy locations, typically because the store didn't have the proper parts. Best Buy is considering shipping additional parts to the stores, but for now the computers go to the Kentucky warehouse, Rodgers said. Swift repair time is crucial in an industry with customers who don't want to be away from their private files. ''Laptops are very personal and people don't like a personal element of their life to be out of their reach for two or three or 10 days,'' Doherty said. Some smaller, independent tech support companies forego shipping computers and have instead built their business around online troubleshooting services. HiWired.com, a small Massachusetts company, repairs computers with a remote screen-sharing technology, said Singu Srinivas, its co-founder. A typical service call costs from $75 to $100, he said. ''What we've found is 93 percent of problems can be actually solved remotely,'' Srinivas said, ''because most of the problems people have these days are less, 'My key is stuck on my keyboard,' but more about, 'I saw a new piece of software on the Internet, and my PC was working fine before that, but now it's running sluggish.''' Srinivas said consumer computer service and repair is a $15 billion a year industry and growing. Geek Squad's pseudo-serious image - high-tech culture with a dab of intrigue straight out of a 1950s spy novel - is embraced by Geek Squad City's 600 employees, who carry titles like ''counter intelligence agent'' and ''commissioner.'' Founded in 1994 in Minnesota by Robert Stephens, the company began with house calls to customers with computer woes. Stephens sold it to Best Buy in 2002. Best Buy offers Geek Squad service packages that range from $29 to $299. They also fix computers not bought at it stores. There are no customer walk-ins here, but employees still don the standard issue black-tie and pants with white, short-sleeved dress shirts. About 350 of the facility's workers are ''agents'' or computer technicians, most from nearby Louisville. Rodgers said the facility is already planning to hire another 350 workers at wages ranging from $9.50 to $31.50 an hour. Though it's been open since October, management is constantly streamlining methods. ''I've never found a problem that somebody here couldn't fix,'' said Justin Meade, a 21-year-old who works at Geek Squad City. ''We kind of relish in that.'' Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Family has questions after man is found dead Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Copper River salmon arrive in style Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/tech/7494327.html	Space shuttle set to return to launch pad on Tuesday | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Technology Space shuttle set to return to launch pad on Tuesday In this May 9, 2007 photo, a technician adjusts a sander while working to repair the hail damage to space shuttle Atlantis' nose cone. Story Published: May 14, 2007 at 8:02 AM PDT Story Updated: May 14, 2007 at 8:02 AM PDT CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. (AP) - NASA managers on Friday approved moving Atlantis to the launch pad in hopes that a June launch will return the space shuttle program to a regular flight schedule after a six-month hiatus. Technicians planned to haul Atlantis to the launch pad as soon as Tuesday if technicians can quickly remove the scaffolding that was used while thousands of dings from hail were repaired in the foam insulation on the shuttle's external fuel tank. Golf ball-size hailstones damaged the insulation during a storm in February while the tank sat on the launch pad, forcing NASA to delay Atlantis' launch from mid-March to no earlier than June 8. "I promise you, it's absolutely ready to go," John Chapman, NASA's manager of the external tank project, said Friday. Atlantis has been in the Vehicle Assembly Building for the repairs. The technicians sprayed on new insulation foam in some areas, hand-poured foam on other areas and sanded down other foam so it blended in with surrounding areas. A final decision on when to launch Atlantis will be made at the end of the month. Astronaut Clayton Anderson has been added to the six-man shuttle crew so he can replace U.S. astronaut Sunita Williams on the international space station. No space shuttle has flown since Discovery returned from a trip to the space station last December. The Atlantis crew will deliver a 17½-ton addition to the station's truss system and go on three spacewalks. Foam debris coming off the external fuel tank is of special concern to NASA since the seven astronauts aboard Columbia perished when a piece of foam from the tank struck a wing during launch, allowing fiery gases to penetrate the spacecraft while returning to Earth. During the delay, technicians also removed Atlantis' three engines to check for tiny pieces of rubber in propellant lines that were found in Discovery last December. A minuscule piece of rubber was removed from a propellant line in Atlantis. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye Family has questions after man is found dead 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Copper River salmon arrive in style Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/tech/7494812.html	Satellite launch for Nigeria marks expansion for China's commercial launching | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Technology Satellite launch for Nigeria marks expansion for China's commercial launching Story Published: May 14, 2007 at 8:30 AM PDT Story Updated: May 14, 2007 at 8:30 AM PDT BEIJING (AP) - A Chinese rocket blasted a Nigerian communications satellite into orbit on Monday, marking an expansion of China's commercial launching services for foreign space hardware, state media said. The official Xinhua News Agency said it was the first time a foreign buyer has purchased a Chinese satellite and its launching service. The launch coincides with the opening of the African Development Bank's annual board meeting in Shanghai this week, reflecting growing African-Chinese ties. The Nigerian Communication Satellite, or NIGCOMSAT-1, was launched by a Long March 3-B rocket from the Xichang Satellite Launch Center in southwest China's Sichuan province early Monday, Xinhua said. The launch was part of a $311 million deal signed by China and Nigeria in 2004, and the satellite will be used to expand cell phone and Internet services in central Africa, Xinhua said. China has been commissioned to send about 30 foreign satellites into space and signed several contracts offering commercial launching services for foreign satellites, including one with Venezuela, it said. The satellite, which was developed by the China Aerospace Science and Technology Corp., will be monitored and tracked by China's Great Wall Industry Corp., it said. Xinhua said the launch represented "China's wish to cooperate with developing countries in the peaceful use of outer space and to promote a closer relationship between China and African countries." Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye Family has questions after man is found dead 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Copper River salmon arrive in style Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/tech/7495037.html	Military blocking soldiers' access to YouTube, MySpace | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Technology Military blocking soldiers' access to YouTube, MySpace Soldiers from 4th Brigade, 1st Infantry Division react to one of several house fires in Baghdad, Iraq Tuesday, May 8, 2007. Story Published: May 14, 2007 at 8:42 AM PDT Story Updated: May 14, 2007 at 8:42 AM PDT DENVER (AP) - Soldiers serving overseas will lose some of their online links to friends and loved ones back home under a Department of Defense policy that a high-ranking Army official said would take effect Monday. The Defense Department will begin blocking access "worldwide" to YouTube, MySpace and 11 other popular Web sites on its computers and networks, according to a memo sent Friday by Gen. B.B. Bell, the U.S. Forces Korea commander. The policy is being implemented to protect information and reduce drag on the department's networks, according to Bell. "This recreational traffic impacts our official DoD network and bandwidth ability, while posing a significant operational security challenge," the memo said. The armed services have long barred members of the military from sharing information that could jeopardize their missions or safety, whether electronically or by other means. The new policy is different because it creates a blanket ban on several sites used by military personnel to exchange messages, pictures, video and audio with family and friends. Members of the military can still access the sites on their own computers and networks, but Defense Department computers and networks are the only ones available to many soldiers and sailors in Iraq and Afghanistan. Iraqi insurgents or their supporters have been posting videos on YouTube at least since last fall. The Army recently began posting videos on YouTube showing soldiers defeating insurgents and befriending Iraqis. But the new rules mean many military personnel won't be able to watch those achievements - at least not on military computers. If the restrictions are intended to prevent soldiers from giving or receiving bad news, they could also prevent them from providing positive reports from the field, said Noah Shachtman, who runs a national security blog for Wired Magazine. "This is as much an information war as it is bombs and bullets," he said. "And they are muzzling their best voices." The sites covered by the ban are the video-sharing sites YouTube, Metacafe, IFilm, StupidVideos, and FileCabi, the social networking sites MySpace, BlackPlanet and Hi5, music sites Pandora, MTV, and 1.fm, and live365, and the photo-sharing site Photobucket. Several companies have instituted similar bans, saying recreational sites drain productivity. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Family has questions after man is found dead Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Copper River salmon arrive in style Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/tech/7512802.html	Shuttle starts trip back to launch pad after repairs | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Technology Shuttle starts trip back to launch pad after repairs Story Published: May 15, 2007 at 8:38 AM PDT Story Updated: May 15, 2007 at 8:38 AM PDT CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. (AP) - After 2½ months of repairs to its external fuel tank, space shuttle Atlantis on Tuesday began a slow journey back to the launch pad in anticipation of lifting off in early June on a construction mission to the international space station. The 3.4-mile trip from the Vehicle Assembly Building aboard the massive crawler-transporter started just after 5 a.m. and was expected to last seven hours. The last time Atlantis made this trip was in February. The shuttle was on its launch pad when a freak hail storm swept through and pounded fuel tank with golf ball-sized hail that left thousands of dings in the tank's insulating foam. NASA managers postponed a mid-March launch and ordered the shuttle returned to the Vehicle Assembly Building for repairs. It was the 17th time in the 26-year-old shuttle program that one of the vehicles had to be moved back to the Vehicle Assembly Building from the launch pad. Technicians sprayed on new insulation foam in some areas, hand-poured foam on other areas and sanded down other foam so it blended in with surrounding areas. One technician even designed and built in a week a special tool that could be used to apply new foam. When the shuttle rolled out Tuesday, the orange tank had hundreds of white speckles at the top showing their work. The launch is now planned for no earlier than June 8. A final decision will be made at the end of the month. "It's a real success story - almost bordering on an Apollo 13 type story to develop that in such a short time," John Chapman, NASA's manager of the external tank project, said last week, referring to the engineering ingenuity that delivered the moon-bound crew safely back to Earth in 1970 after an oxygen tank ruptured on the spacecraft. Foam debris coming off the external fuel tank has been of special concern to NASA since the seven astronauts aboard Columbia perished when a piece of foam from the tank struck a wing during launch, allowing fiery gases to penetrate the space shuttle while returning to Earth. Astronaut Clayton Anderson has been added to the previously six-man Atlantis crew so he can replace U.S. astronaut Sunita Williams on the international space station. Until the shuttle arrives, Williams and her colleagues at the space station will make do with 2½ tons of fuel, air, water and other supplies that were delivered Tuesday by a Russian cargo vehicle. NASA managers hope Atlantis' launch puts the space agency back on a regular schedule of shuttle missions after a five-month hiatus. The last space shuttle flight was in December, and three more missions are scheduled for this year after Atlantis. The space agency has at least 14 more missions to finish building the space station and repair the Hubble Space Telescope before the shuttle fleet is grounded in 2010. The next-generation spacecraft, Orion, isn't scheduled to fly astronauts until 2015. Last week, leaders of almost two dozen aerospace companies sent a letter to members of Congress urging them to support funding NASA an additional $1.4 billion above the administration's 2008 budget request of $17.3 billion to narrow the gap when the United States won't have manned spaceflights. "Future U.S. leadership in space is at stake," the letter said. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye Family has questions after man is found dead 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Copper River salmon arrive in style Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/tech/7485637.html	Music piracy crackdown nets college kids | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Technology Music piracy crackdown nets college kids Story Published: May 13, 2007 at 12:32 PM PDT Story Updated: May 13, 2007 at 12:32 PM PDT LINCOLN, Neb. (AP) - At first, Sarah Barg thought the e-mail was a scam. Some group called the Recording Industry Association of America was accusing the University of Nebraska-Lincoln sophomore of illegally downloading 381 songs using the school's computer network and a program called Ares. The letter said she might be sued but offered her the chance to settle out of court. Barg couldn't imagine anyone expected her to pay $3,000 - $7.87 per song - for some 1980s ballads and Spice Girls tunes she downloaded for laughs in her dorm room. Besides, the 20-year-old had friends who had downloaded thousands of songs without repercussion. ''Obviously I knew it was illegal, but no one got in trouble for it,'' Barg said. But Barg's perspective changed quickly that Thursday in March, when she called student legal services and found out the e-mail was no joke and that she had a pricey decision to make. Barg is one of 61 students at UNL and hundreds at more than 60 college campuses across the country who have received letters from the recording industry group, threatening a lawsuit if they don't settle out of court. ''Any student on any campus in the country who is illegally downloading music may receive one of these letters in the coming months,'' said Jenni Engebretsen, an RIAA spokeswoman. Barg's parents paid the $3,000 settlement. Without their help, ''I don't know what I would have done. I'm only 20 years old,'' she said. At least 500 university students nationwide have paid settlements to avoid being sued, Engebretsen said. Students who don't take the offer face lawsuits _ and minimum damages of $750 for each copyrighted recording shared if they lose. UNL officials have been told 32 more letters are on the way. At least 17 UNL students who did not take the settlement offer have been sued, according to the RIAA, although the university has been asked to forward only five subpoenas. But the students coughing up the cash question why they're the ones getting in trouble. ''They're targeting the worst people,'' UNL freshman Andrew Johnson, who also settled for $3,000. ''Legally, it probably makes sense, because we don't have the money to fight.'' Johnson got his e-mail in February, with the recording industry group's first wave of letters targeting college students. He had downloaded 100 songs on a program called LimeWire using the university network. The money to settle came from the 18-year-old's college fund. He'll work three jobs this summer to pay back the money. Johnson compares what he did to people driving 5 miles per hour over the speed limit. ''It's not like I downloaded millions of songs and sold them to people,'' Johnson said. But just one song can bring a lawsuit, Engebretsen said. ''It is important to send the message that this is illegal, you can be caught, and there are consequences,'' she said. The industry realizes attitudes need changing, and money from the settlements is reinvested in educational programs schools and other groups can use to spread the word that song sharing can have severe consequences. Some of the programs are tailored to start with third-graders. ''We do recognize that by the time students reach college, many of their music habits are already formed,'' Engebretsen said. Earlier this month, members of Congress sent a letter to officials from 19 universities, including UNL, asking for information about schools' anti-piracy policies. According to the letter, more than half of college students download copyrighted music and movies. The information requested is intended to help assess whether Congress needs to advance legislation to ensure illegal downloading ''is no longer commonly associated with student life on some U.S. campuses,'' the letter says. Barg is still angry about her letter from the recording industry group, which she calls bullying. But she agrees sharing music is common, and that other students don't understand the consequences. ''Technically, I'm guilty. I just think it's ridiculous, the way they're going about it,'' Barg said. ''We have to find a way to adjust our legal policy to take into account this new technology, and so far, they're not doing a very good job.'' Barg thinks the university should send an e-mail to all students, warning them that the recording industry won't look the other way. As campus clears out for the summer, UNL officials are considering launching a new educational campaign in the fall. ''If we can do anything to help educate students about what illegal file-sharing is, we're willing and interested in doing that,'' said Kelly Bartling, a university spokeswoman. Bartling said no one wants students to have to worry about how to pay tuition because of an expensive settlement. ''It is a hugely expensive lesson,'' Bartling said. Johnson, the UNL freshman, doesn't think the threats from the recording industry group are going to solve the problem. Friends who know he got in trouble still share music online. ''People are still going to do it until they get caught, and they can't catch everyone,'' Johnson said. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Family has questions after man is found dead Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Copper River salmon arrive in style Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
