http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/G/GONZALES_PROSECUTORS?SITE=TNKNN&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	KnoxNews: News from the Associated Press View all of the AP's breaking news stories Email this page to a friend May 11, 3:35 AM EDT Gonzales deflects Democrats' criticism BY LARA JAKES JORDAN Gonzales Testifies With New Confidence AP-Ipsos Poll: Bush and Congress Iraqi officials discourage U.S. pullout White House takes hard line on spending Reid extends negotiations on immigration Poll: Congress, Bush share low approval Lobbying reform losing steam in House The 110th Congress' First 100 Hours Sen. Max Baucus: The AP Interview Mark Foley Scandal Timeline Harry Reid Land Deal Congressional Leadership Financial Disclosure Harry Reid's Ties to Abramoff DeLay and Blunt: Following the Money Congress Goes to Bat for Tribes Buy AP Photo Reprints List of Sampson Documents Withheld from Congress Part I: Sampson-Miers e-mails Part II: Sampson-Miers e-mails Ex-U.S. attorney questions own firing Gonzales deflects Democrats' criticism Excerpts from Gonzales hearing WASHINGTON (AP) -- Attorney General Alberto Gonzales confidently deflected House Democrats' demands Thursday for details in the firings of U.S. attorneys, appearing ever more likely to survive accusations that the dismissals were politically motivated. Republican lawmakers rushed to Gonzales' defense as the attorney general denied anew that the firings last year were improper. The mostly muted five-hour hearing in front of the House Judiciary Committee was a sharp contrast to Gonzales' sometimes testy appearance three weeks ago when Senate Republicans questioned his competence to run the Justice Department. One senator at that session joined a small GOP chorus saying he should step down. "I will work as hard as I can, working with this committee and working with DOJ employees, to reassure the American people that this department is focused on doing its job," Gonzales said Thursday. That did not satisfy exasperated Democrats, who accused Gonzales of being evasive. "Your reputation is on the line, Mr. Attorney General. What do you have to say for yourself?" asked Rep. Maxine Waters, D-Calif., adding that the "buck stops at the top." "I accept responsibility," Gonzales answered. President Bush steadfastly has stood by Gonzales, his longtime counselor and friend. Even career Justice Department staffers angered by the attorney general's response to the firings acknowledge Gonzales appears to have beaten back calls to leave. The latest lawmaker to urge Gonzales to quit was Rep. Adam Schiff, D-Calif. "I hope you will resign because the department is broken and I don't think you're the one to fix it," Schiff told him. Republicans sought to portray the controversy as losing steam. They pushed Democrats to wrap up the congressional probe that has dogged the department since the beginning of the year. "The list of accusations has mushroomed, but the evidence of wrongdoing has not," said Rep. Lamar Smith of Texas, top Republican on the committee. "If there are no fish in this lake, we should reel in our lines of questions, dock our empty boat and turn to more pressing issues." Gonzales acknowledged low morale at the department. Career prosecutors have said it is stunting hiring. Private defense lawyers say it has led to government hesitation and indecisiveness in some courtrooms. Gonzales contended the department's independence is intact. "Contrary to being gun shy, this process is somewhat liberating in terms of going forward," he said. Gonzales repeatedly said he was unaware of many of the factors leading up to the dismissals because he relied on his former chief of staff, Kyle Sampson, to carry them out. He also said he could not clarify parts of the firing process that remain murky in his own mind while investigations of the dismissals continue. He said he has "no basis to believe" that Todd Graves, the former prosecutor in Kansas City, Mo., left in early 2006 because Graves refused to endorse department allegations about voter fraud in Missouri. Gonzales praised the work of Debra Yang, formerly the U.S. attorney in Los Angeles, who resigned in October to take a higher paying job at a private firm. Graves and Yang were not among the eight prosecutors whose dismissals are being investigated. But questions about their resignations have recently surfaced. Gonzales denied that Bush's political adviser, Karl Rove, demanded last fall's ouster of then-New Mexico prosecutor David Iglesias. But the attorney general acknowledged that Rove had complained about stagnant voter fraud cases in three districts, including New Mexico, and noted those concerns were echoed by Sen. Pete Domenici, R-N.M. Those complaints spurred suspicions that Iglesias was improperly fired because he refused to target Democrats. On the other side, GOP Rep. James Sensenbrenner leaned on Gonzales on Thursday to speed the department's corruption investigation of Democratic Rep. William Jefferson of Louisiana. "Congressman, you know I cannot talk about that," Gonzales told Sensenbrenner, R-Wis. "Well, everybody's talking about it except you," Sensenbrenner answered. "The people's confidence in your department has been further eroded, separate and apart from the U.S. attorney controversy, because of the delay in dealing with this matter." The House committee also released a portion of closed-door testimony from Sampson suggesting that the Justice Department spared U.S. Attorney Steven M. Biskupic in Milwaukee to avoid angering Sensenbrenner. Thursday's hearing served up more political bickering but few new facts about the firings. At one point, as many as nine Capitol Police officers escorted a half-dozen protesters from the room out of concern they would disrupt the hearing. Despite Committee Chairman John Conyers' plea that the hearing focus on the fired prosecutors, Republicans asked Gonzales about a range of topics, including terrorism and intellectual property theft. Gonzales mostly stuck to a script of accepting responsibility and pushing beyond the controversy - to Democrats' obvious skepticism. "You have a situation where most people believe that you didn't tell the truth about the U.S. attorneys," said Rep. Jerrold Nadler, D-N.Y. "If most people believe that the United States attorney general has not told the truth about why these U.S. attorneys were fired, how can they have confidence in your job?" "I don't believe that's an accurate statement," Gonzales responded. "And what I'm trying to do in appearances like this is to set the record straight." &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. All blogs on KnoxNews.com Photography and archived photos Multimedia and special projects Be the first to know when breaking news occurs. Sign up to receive our Big Dog Alerts in your email. Copyright 2006 - KnoxNews.com is an Other E.W. Scripps sites:
http://hosted.ap.org/	News from The Associated Press
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/U/US_IRAQ?SITE=TNKNN&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	KnoxNews: News from the Associated Press View all of the AP's breaking news stories Email this page to a friend May 11, 7:06 PM EDT Iraqi officials discourage U.S. pullout House Agrees to Fund Iraq War Through July Bush Calls on Congress to Be Patient With Iraq The Toll: Coalition Casualties Since March 2003 U.S. Allows Mahdi Army a Security Role Iraqis Struggle in Police Training Four Years: AP Journalists Look Back Iraq and Vietnam: Contrasting Protests Land Mines From Iran-Iraq War Sold on Black Market Iraqi Outpost Tests War Strategy Iraq's Toll Felt Across U.S. Soldier Diagnosed Before Attack end soldier diagnosis --> end interactive icon section --> Latest photos from Iraq War tensions follow Bush to commencement Iraqi officials discourage U.S. pullout Car bombings kill 23 at Baghdad bridges Radical Iraqi cleric said to be in Iran White House takes hard line on spending Executive Summary: DOD Inspector General on Pre-Iraq War Intelligence Activities(2/9/2007) Unclassified National Intelligence Estimate Summary on Iraq (2/2/2007) Inspector General Report on Iraq Reconstruction (1/31/2007) AP-Ipsos Poll: Bush and Congress Iraqi officials discourage U.S. pullout White House takes hard line on spending Reid extends negotiations on immigration Poll: Congress, Bush share low approval Lobbying reform losing steam in House The 110th Congress' First 100 Hours Sen. Max Baucus: The AP Interview Mark Foley Scandal Timeline Harry Reid Land Deal Congressional Leadership Financial Disclosure Harry Reid's Ties to Abramoff DeLay and Blunt: Following the Money Congress Goes to Bat for Tribes Buy AP Photo Reprints WASHINGTON (AP) -- Worried Congress' support for Iraq is deteriorating rapidly, Baghdad dispatched senior officials to Capitol Hill this week to warn members one-on-one that pulling out U.S. troops would have disastrous consequences. The lobbying push targeted Republicans and Democrats alike, but focused primarily on those considered influential on the war debate. On Thursday, hours before the House voted to limit funds for the war, Iraqi Deputy Prime Minister Barham Saleh met with more than 30 House Republicans and more than a half-dozen senators, including Sens. Harry Reid, D-Nev., John Warner, R-Va., and Hillary Rodham Clinton, D-N.Y. "He understands that American patience is waning," said Sen. Norm Coleman, after eating lunch with Saleh, Iraqi Ambassador Samir Shakir al-Sumaidaie and Sen. Saxby Chambliss. But the lobbying by the Iraqis isn't the only pressure-point being applied in Washington. Clinton said Friday she considered it "promising" that several Republican House members went to the White House and told President Bush they believe the continuing war is adversely affecting the party. She said the GOP lawmakers told Bush pointblank that "he has to change course in Iraq." But she also said she didn't think that Bush was ready to reverse course. "I think we're going to go back and forth on this for a while longer," Clinton said in an interview Friday on MSNBC's "Morning Joe" program with Joe Scarborough. "It is clear that whatever the mission used to be, it is either accomplished or over," she said. "If there are remaining American interests, then let's spell them out." Baghdad's ability to sell members like Coleman, R-Minn., and Chambliss, R-Ga., on the war effort is critical if the Iraqi government wants U.S. troops to stay. Coleman in recent months has become deeply skeptical of the president's decision to send additional troops to Iraq and says patience on the war in general is limited. Coleman, Chambliss and Sen. John Sununu, R-N.H., who met separately with Saleh, will be up for re-election next year - facing voters who have grown tired of a war in its fifth year and that has killed more than 3,380 troops. While Republicans have been reluctant to intervene, many say President Bush has until September to tell if the troop buildup in Iraq is working before they demand another approach. With the clock ticking, Saleh - a Kurdish politician highly regarded by U.S. officials and who speaks impeccable English - said he came to Capitol Hill to convey the "imperative of success" in Iraq. "Iraq is a central battleground in this historic conflict" against terrorism, he said in a brief interview after meeting with Reid, the Senate majority leader. His trip came on the heels of a visit by Mowaffak al-Rubaie, the national security adviser to Iraqi Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki, along with three other senior advisers, according to the Iraqi embassy. The New York Times first reported al-Rubaie's visit on Tuesday. The timing of these meetings is no mistake. This month, Congress is expected to send Bush legislation that funds the war in Iraq but requires the Baghdad government meet certain political and security reforms. In question is what consequences the Iraqis should face if they fail. Democrats want U.S. troops to leave, Republicans say they don't want to force redeployments, but some say they would be open to withholding more than $5 billion in foreign aid. The House voted 221-205 Thursday for a stronger measure that would fund the war only through July, giving Congress the option of cutting off money after that. The bill is unlikely to survive in the Senate, although it indicates the war's unpopularity among members and their frustration with the lack of progress in the Iraqi parliament. The most recent irritant among U.S. lawmakers was a report that Iraqi officials would break for two months this summer. "Our armed forces are up to 150,000 troops; we're over $600 billion appropriated for this, lost 3,300 lives, 25,000 wounded fellow citizens. ... And the Iraqi answer? We're taking a summer off. Goin' fishing," said Rep. Rahm Emanuel, D-Ill. Saleh said he expects the vacation to be shortened by at least a month, although nothing had been decided. He added that Iraqis value being independent and do "not take kindly of (U.S. officials) telling us when to recess." Democrats seemed to consider these meetings with Iraqi officials as beneficial - if only to convey their frustration to Iraqi officials in person. Reid's spokesman Jim Manley said the senator told Saleh that "U.S. patience, blood and treasure were not unlimited and that the Congress would be taking a more decisive role in the coming weeks and months." "Salih understood the point, and said he would deliver the message to the Iraqi cabinet," Manley added. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. All blogs on KnoxNews.com Photography and archived photos Multimedia and special projects Be the first to know when breaking news occurs. Sign up to receive our Big Dog Alerts in your email. Copyright 2006 - KnoxNews.com is an Other E.W. Scripps sites:
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/O/ON_THE_2008_TRAIL?SITE=TNKNN&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	KnoxNews: News from the Associated Press View all of the AP's breaking news stories Email this page to a friend May 11, 6:03 PM EDT Romney cites Scripture on gay marriage Buy AP Photo Reprints Iraq? Global Warming? Gay Marriage? See Where the Candidates Stand BOSTON (AP) -- Republican presidential candidate Mitt Romney is defending his opposition to gay marriage by citing the Scriptures. The former Massachusetts governor, who in his 1994 Senate bid pledged to be a more effective champion for gay causes than his Democratic rival, discussed gay marriage in an interview set to air Sunday on CBS' "60 Minutes." "This isn't just some temporary convenience here on Earth, but we're people that are designed to live together as male and female and we're gonna have families," he tells interviewer Mike Wallace, according to an excerpt CBS released Friday. "And that, there's a great line in the Bible that children are an inheritance of the Lord and happy is he who has or hath his quiver full of them." Romney, seeking to become the first Mormon president, also tries to allay any concerns about his religion. "What's at the heart of my faith is a belief that there's a creator, that we're all children of the same God, and that fundamentally the relationship you have with your spouse is important and eternal," Romney said over the course of two interviews, one of which was taped at his vacation home in Wolfeboro, N.H. Meanwhile, Romney also is on the cover of the latest edition of Time magazine. In its main story, Time writes, "The closest he has ever come to a personal religious crisis, he recalls, was when he was in college and considering whether to go off on a mission, as his grandfather, father and brother had done. ... He says he also felt guilty about the draft deferment he would get for it, when other young men his age were heading for Vietnam." Romney offered a slightly different tale during an interview with the Boston Herald during his 1994 U.S. Senate campaign. "I didn't go on a mission to avoid the draft," Romney said at the time. "I never asked my dad (Michigan Gov. George Romney) in any way to be involved with the draft board. "Romney, however, acknowledged he did not have any desire to serve in the military during his college and missionary days, especially after he married and became a father," the newspaper wrote. "'I was not planning on signing up for the military,' he said. It was not my desire to go off and serve in Vietnam, but nor did I take any actions to remove myself from the pool of young men who were eligible for the draft. If drafted, I would have been happy to serve, and if I didn't get drafted I was happy to be with my wife and new child.'" PORTSMOUTH, N.H. (AP) - Presidential candidate John McCain has made another change in his struggling campaign, dismissing his New Hampshire campaign manager on Friday. Jim Martin had run the Arizona Republican's campaign in the state and was part of McCain's 2000 victory in the state. But the campaign decided to replace him with Jim Barnett, who had been a top political operative. McCain's New Hampshire Communications Director Jill Hazelbaker said the departure came Friday. "While we appreciate his hard work, Jim Barnett will assume the day-to-day responsibilities going forward," she said. "Barnett is a talented political professional with extensive campaign experience, and he will work closely with Mike Dennehy to build out our ground operation to ensure that we win the primary." Barnett had served as chairman of the Vermont Republican Party and joined the McCain campaign as the regional political director. "We need someone who knows what it takes on every level of a campaign and understand a get-out-the-vote process. Jim Barnett is that person," said Dennehy, a McCain consultant who stepped down earlier this week as national political director and returned to help New Hampshire's office. Earlier this year, McCain restructured his campaign fundraising organization after a lackluster first quarter. EXETER, N.H. (AP) - Two days before Mother's Day, Democratic presidential hopeful Hillary Rodham Clinton appeared with a group of New Hampshire moms to highlight what she called the "inequities and absurdities" that prevent children from receiving quality health care. "I think one of the greatest gifts you can give any mother is the health of a child," Clinton said Friday at Exeter Hospital, where the three mothers who joined her on stage did most of the talking. AnnMarie Morse of Candia described her crusade to change state law after her daughter died of colon cancer in 2005. Michelle Morse, 22, had continued to attend college full-time during her chemotherapy to keep her health insurance. Under what became known as "Michelle's Law," insurance companies that cover college students under their parents' plans must continue the coverage if a student takes a medical leave of absence. Clinton, a sponsor of federal legislation that would expand Michelle's Law nationwide, called Morse's story one of many examples of a parent who does all the right things, but still struggles with health insurance. "You think you've taken care of your family. You've been paying your insurance premiums, and when you need it the most it's not there for you," she said. "It's one of the reasons we need to change the whole system, but until we can change the whole system, we have to try to get rid of the inequities and absurdities that stand in the way of people getting the care they deserve and need." NEW YORK (AP) - Despite constant denials that he is running for president, New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg laid out a national energy plan Friday and took veiled jabs at his potential opponents, accusing them of "politics as usual." The Republican billionaire outlined an energy plan that proposes creating profit motives for reducing greenhouse gas emissions, building new wind farms and nuclear plants, phasing out incandescent light bulbs and setting early deadlines to accomplish these goals. Bloomberg, who recently launched an effort to drastically reduce pollution by 2030 in New York City, suggested that those who set later deadlines like 2050 and 2070 are afraid to do the work and make the commitments now. A number of presidential candidates - including Democrats John Edwards, Barack Obama and Chris Dodd, and Republican John McCain - have their own proposals with a 2050 endpoint, or support plans with that deadline. "Legislators that make promises to achieve something in the far-off distant future but refuse to take steps now that would allow us to begin the process are really very hypocritical," Bloomberg said. "That's not leadership, that's not what this country needs. It's passing the buck. And unfortunately for Washington today, it's what we call politics as usual." Bloomberg, a billionaire, has repeatedly said he will not enter the presidential race, although he and his aides have continued to fuel speculation with coy remarks, as well as a greater focus on national issues and travel outside New York. Associated Press Writers Sara Kugler in New York, Holly Ramer in Exeter, N.H., Rasha Madkour in Houston and Philip Elliott in Portsmouth, N.H., contributed to this report. (This version CORRECTS SUBS 4th graf, 2nd item to correct job with Vermont GOP) &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. All blogs on KnoxNews.com Photography and archived photos Multimedia and special projects Be the first to know when breaking news occurs. Sign up to receive our Big Dog Alerts in your email. Copyright 2006 - KnoxNews.com is an Other E.W. Scripps sites:
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/I/IMMIGRATION_CONGRESS?SITE=TNKNN&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	KnoxNews: News from the Associated Press View all of the AP's breaking news stories Email this page to a friend May 11, 4:34 PM EDT Reid extends negotiations on immigration By JULIE HIRSCHFELD DAVIS Raid Captures Illegal Immigrants Shelters Provide Stability for Young Immigrants Reid extends negotiations on immigration Churches provide immigrants sanctuary LA immigrant activists plan June rally Okla. gov. signs immigration reform bill Tighter border first; immigration later Memo on Prosecution of Illegal Immigrants AP-Ipsos Poll: Bush and Congress Iraqi officials discourage U.S. pullout White House takes hard line on spending Reid extends negotiations on immigration Poll: Congress, Bush share low approval Lobbying reform losing steam in House The 110th Congress' First 100 Hours Sen. Max Baucus: The AP Interview Mark Foley Scandal Timeline Harry Reid Land Deal Congressional Leadership Financial Disclosure Harry Reid's Ties to Abramoff DeLay and Blunt: Following the Money Congress Goes to Bat for Tribes Buy AP Photo Reprints WASHINGTON (AP) -- Agreeing to give a fitful set of bipartisan talks more time to yield an immigration deal, Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid said Friday he would delay a vote on the issue until next Wednesday. The move postponed - at least for a day - what was shaping up as a partisan clash over immigration after weeks of negotiations between the White House and senators in both parties designed to strike a broad compromise. With that agreement still elusive, Reid is planning to force debate next week on an immigration measure that passed the Senate last year with wide Democratic backing but opposition by a majority of Republicans. GOP senators have promised to block that move, saying they will only accept a new bipartisan compromise. "Some of the senators feel that there's a breakthrough that could take place" in talks over the weekend and early next week, said Reid, D-Nev., adding that he would "reluctantly" postpone the test-vote, which he had set for Tuesday. He has now set the vote for next Wednesday. Sen. Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., said the move would "give us the maximum opportunity to piece back together the bipartisan agreement that we thought we almost had a week or so ago." Talks are continuing on the possible deal, which would first secure the U.S.-Mexico border and implement an elaborate high-tech identification system for immigrant workers, and only then give millions of illegal immigrants a chance at legal status - after waits as long as 13 more years. Many Democrats and Republicans are wary of such an agreement, which also would limit immigrants' ability to bring their families to the U.S. Democrats fear it will be rejected as too punitive by their liberal base, while Republicans are concerned about alienating conservatives by appearing to treat illegal immigrants too leniently. President Bush plans to use his Saturday weekly radio address to urge Congress to reshape immigration laws. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. All blogs on KnoxNews.com Photography and archived photos Multimedia and special projects Be the first to know when breaking news occurs. Sign up to receive our Big Dog Alerts in your email. Copyright 2006 - KnoxNews.com is an Other E.W. Scripps sites:
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/G/GIULIANI_ABORTION?SITE=TNKNN&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	KnoxNews: News from the Associated Press View all of the AP's breaking news stories Email this page to a friend May 11, 6:22 PM EDT Giuliani defends stance on abortion Buy AP Photo Reprints See how your responses stack up against the majority of Americans on abortion. Iraq? Global Warming? Gay Marriage? See Where the Candidates Stand Giuliani defends stance on abortion Giuliani backs Army buildup nearing 600K Giuliani says Saddam paying for offenses Rudy Giuliani assails Venezuela's Chavez Giuliani counts backers who aren't fans Latest Photos of Rudy Giuliani Video: Excerpts from the film 'Giuliani Time' HOUSTON (AP) -- Republican presidential candidate Rudy Giuliani forcefully reaffirmed his support for abortion rights on Friday and argued that his divergence from conservatives on the issue should not disqualify him from being the eventual GOP nominee. "This is a matter of deep and profound judgment," he said in a speech at Houston Baptist University. "It's a matter of morals. It's a matter of your interpretation of how laws should operate, your interpretation of how respect for the rights of others should operate. But in a country like ours ... I believe you have to respect their viewpoint and give them a level of choice. I would grant women the right to make that choice." The former New York City mayor has struggled in the last week to explain his personal opposition to abortion with his long public record of favoring a woman's right to choose. He has defended his positions - and some say contradictory comments - on late-term abortion, public funding for abortions and the 1973 Supreme Court ruling that legalized abortion. But Giuliani left few questions about his position Friday, telling about 500 students and faculty at the small conservative school that - despite his belief that abortion was "morally wrong" - he believes the decision should ultimately be left to individuals and their decisions should be respected. Opposition to abortion has been a litmus test for conservatives within the Republican Party, who hold considerable sway in the primaries. Giuliani has drawn criticism from some in the GOP for his abortion rights support. One of his rivals, former Massachusetts Gov. Mitt Romney, has switched from supporting abortion rights to opposing the procedure - a shift that also has drawn complaints. Another rival, Sam Brownback, said Friday that an abortion rights Republican would have trouble winning the nomination. His comments echoed those of another candidate, Sen. John McCain of Arizona. "It is a pro-life party, with a pro-choice wing," said the Kansas senator, who spoke during a taping of Iowa Public Television's "Iowa Press" program. "I think he has great trouble winning off of that position." Brownback also criticized Romney's switch. "I do think what will be a deal-breaker is if you flip on core issues like life, taxes, second amendment rights," he said. Giuliani, acknowledging that his position on abortion differed from that of most of his audience, urged them to consider his views on other issues as well before deciding whether to support his candidacy. "You have a right to evaluate this in figuring out if you can support me, and at what level you can support me," Giuliani said. "Everybody's got to make a choice. How important are the differences and then how important are the other issues that are involved in this election?" Giuliani emphasized his conservative credentials on tax cuts, crime and the war in Iraq. He said his eight years as mayor of New York showed he could apply conservative social and economic principles even in the face of substantial opposition. HBU President Robert Sloan said the Giuliani campaign called the university on Wednesday and asked if the candidate could speak there this week. Sloan said that, although campaign officials would not discuss why they had chosen HBU, he believed it was because Giuliani "wanted to forthrightly speak on social issues in an audience where religious matters and moral issues truly matter." Several students praised Giuliani's speech, but said it was unlikely to make them support his candidacy. "Overall, I thought it was a great speech," said Erik Mignault, a 25-year-old political science major at HBU. "I agree that we're not going to agree 100 percent with all candidates. I think it was a good political stance to take. He's sitting right in the middle." But Mignault and several other students said they were anti-abortion and likely to support a more conservative GOP candidate. Giuliani's appearance was greeted warmly, and he appeared playful at times, hoisting a child with an "I Love New York" T-shirt and laughing at boos when he spoke of his love for the New York Yankees, the team that this week acquired Houston Astros star pitcher Roger Clemens. But Giuliani told the audience that they should support a candidate who could protect America from terrorism and from Democratic assaults on the economy. He acknowledged that abortion was the issue that most divided them. "I have profound respect for your views," he said. "I have profound respect for your education, and I have profound respect for your religion." But, he said, it is uniquely American to disagree on some political issues while agreeing on many others. "We understand how to respect each other's differences," he said. Associated Press Writer Mike Glover in Johnston, Iowa, contributed to this report. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. All blogs on KnoxNews.com Photography and archived photos Multimedia and special projects Be the first to know when breaking news occurs. Sign up to receive our Big Dog Alerts in your email. Copyright 2006 - KnoxNews.com is an Other E.W. Scripps sites:
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/D/DEMOCRATS_LABOR?SITE=TNKNN&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	KnoxNews: News from the Associated Press View all of the AP's breaking news stories Email this page to a friend May 11, 6:06 PM EDT Democratic candidates woo firefighters Buy AP Photo Reprints PORTSMOUTH, N.H. (AP) -- Democratic presidential candidates invoked images of Sept. 11 tragedy and heroism - from a dust-caked crater in New York to bloodied firefighters - as they appealed for the endorsement of a powerful firefighters union. Firefighters emerged from the 2001 attacks as heroes, a fact not lost on the candidates wooing the International Association of Fire Fighters at a two-day meeting of union leaders. "It's hard to find anyone who will stand up and make a speech against firefighters," said Sen. Hillary Rodham Clinton. Clinton told firefighters she appreciated their work in New York City, where two plane crashes led to the fiery collapse of the World Trade Center's Twin Towers. A cloud of smoke, dust and ash hovered for days as rescue workers searched for survivors and bodies. "As a senator from New York on 9-11, I know exactly what those sacrifices were," Clinton said. "We lost so many great firefighters that day, people who rushed into that inferno and kept going up those stairs, weighed down with 100 pounds of equipment and trying to make sure if there was anyone to save, they'd get there." Sen. Joe Biden told the firefighters he'd never forget the pictures from that day. "The one thing I remember the most was that grizzled fireman, coming out of the burning debris, hunched over, absolute determination," said Biden, of Delaware. "That one photograph lifted America off its knees. That one image was the most profound image about the determination and the grit of the entire American people that ever was shown during that event." And Sen. Chris Dodd decried the lack of improvement in communications equipment for firefighters and other safety workers since then. "I think its' a failure how, after 5 1/2 years since 9-11, we still have too many states and jurisdictions that can't talk to one another in a time of crisis," the Connecticut senator said. The union, which traditionally supports Democratic bids for the White House, backed Sen. John Kerry in 2004. The 280,000-member union has feuded with Republican presidential candidate Rudy Giuliani, the former New York City mayor, excoriating him for his November 2001 decision to cut back the number of firefighters searching the rubble of Ground Zero for the remains of some 300 fallen comrades. Recently, Giuliani criticized Democrats on national security, suggesting in a New Hampshire speech that the United States could face another major terrorist attack if a Democrat is elected in 2008. Throughout the two-day conference, the Democratic candidates tried to counter that image, talking about issues key to the firefighters. Candidates pledged to support collective bargaining agreements - Clinton said they were "as American as apple pie - and better training and safer pensions. Illinois Sen. Barack Obama said more needs to be done to help firefighters secure better benefits. "Here we are, five years after 9-11 and we still have to demand health care for the men and women who did the worst work on that day," Obama said by telephone. "It's our obligation to take care of them now." And Clinton said not enough has been done to help firefighters who are suffering health problems after working on Sept. 11. "We lost so many brave firefighters that day who weren't even on duty. They came because they had to be there to help," Clinton said. "It seemed to me at that moment, whatever was required to repay the debt our country owed them, I'd want to make sure that happened." &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. All blogs on KnoxNews.com Photography and archived photos Multimedia and special projects Be the first to know when breaking news occurs. Sign up to receive our Big Dog Alerts in your email. Copyright 2006 - KnoxNews.com is an Other E.W. Scripps sites:
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/A/AP_POLL_BUSH_CONGRESS?SITE=TNKNN&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	KnoxNews: News from the Associated Press View all of the AP's breaking news stories Email this page to a friend May 11, 3:49 PM EDT Poll: Congress, Bush share low approval AP Photo/J. Scott Applewhite AP-Ipsos Poll: Bush and Congress Iraqi officials discourage U.S. pullout White House takes hard line on spending Reid extends negotiations on immigration Poll: Congress, Bush share low approval Lobbying reform losing steam in House The 110th Congress' First 100 Hours Sen. Max Baucus: The AP Interview Mark Foley Scandal Timeline Harry Reid Land Deal Congressional Leadership Financial Disclosure Harry Reid's Ties to Abramoff DeLay and Blunt: Following the Money Congress Goes to Bat for Tribes Buy AP Photo Reprints WASHINGTON (AP) -- People think the Democratic-led Congress is doing just as dreary a job as President Bush, following four months of bitter political standoffs and little progress on Iraq and a host of domestic issues. An AP-Ipsos poll also found that House Speaker Nancy Pelosi is a more popular figure than the president and her colleagues on Capitol Hill, though she faces a gender gap in which significantly more women than men support her. The survey found only 35 percent approve of how Congress is handling its job, down 5 percentage points in a month. That gives lawmakers the same bleak approval rating as Bush, who has been mired at about that level since last fall, including his dip to a record low for the AP-Ipsos poll of 32 percent last January. "It's mostly Iraq" plus a lack of progress in other areas, said Rep. Tom Cole, R-Okla., who heads the House GOP's campaign committee. "These are not good numbers for an incumbent, and it doesn't matter if you have an 'R' or a 'D' next to your name." Democrats agree that the problem is largely Iraq, which has dominated this year's session of Congress while producing little more than this month's Bush veto of a bill requiring the withdrawal of U.S. troops. It has also overshadowed House-passed bills on stem cell research, student loans and other subjects that the White House opposes, they say. "People are unhappy, there hasn't been a lot of change in direction, for example in Iraq," said Rep. Chris Van Hollen, D-Md., chairman of House Democrats' campaign effort. Rising gasoline prices could also be a factor, lawmakers said. In another measure of popular discontent, the survey found that 71 percent say the country is on the wrong track - about even with the 73 percent who said so last May, the worst level since the AP-Ipsos poll began in December 2003. The survey was taken Monday through Wednesday, before Bush offered to seek compromise with congressional Democrats over a war spending bill setting benchmarks for progress in Iraq. Bush told reporters Thursday that if pollsters had asked his opinion about Iraq last fall, "I'd have said I disapprove of what was going on in Iraq. They could have put me down as part of the disapproval process." That was before his decision to send nearly 30,000 additional troops to Iraq, which "would more likely cause me to approve of what's going on in Iraq," he added. Overall approval of Bush was steady from last month, but fell to 69 percent among Republicans, about 7 percentage points below where it had been in April. Earlier this week, a group of GOP moderate House members warned Bush that the status quo in Iraq could mean Republican election losses next year. "If the war doesn't begin to turn around, Republicans will have problems," said Rep. Peter King, R-N.Y., who said he supports Bush's Iraq policy. White House spokesman Tony Snow declined to comment on the poll. Congress' approval rating this week was 10 points higher than a year ago, when Republicans were in control. But after bumping up in April, this month's drop left lawmakers' job approval where it was when the year began. April saw Congress defy Bush and send him a bill financing the war and requiring a troop withdrawal, which he vetoed May 1. "People wanted change in Washington" on many issues, not just Iraq, said Rep. Rahm Emanuel, D-Ill., a member of the House Democratic leadership. "I'm not surprised about where people are. They're hearing only about Iraq." Congress' reduced appeal was evident in several categories of people. Only 48 percent of Democrats said they approved of Congress, down from 55 percent last month. That included a 12 percentage point drop among Democratic women, though support from Democratic men remained steady. Approval by minorities also fell a dozen points to 39 percent, with a similar reduction among people whose family incomes exceed $75,000. By region, the steepest drop was in the Midwest, where approval fell by 10 percentage points to 28 percent. Congress' highest approval was in the Northeast, where four in ten gave it a positive rating. As for Pelosi, D-Calif., her overall approval of 45 percent stood 10 points higher than Bush's and Congress'. She was seen favorably by 52 percent of women, but only 39 percent of men. While whites are closely split about her, minorities approve of her job by a 15-point margin. Pelosi's numbers are about where she was last month but slightly lower than in January. In the last month, she has lost significant support from younger voters, college-educated women and Westerners. "Voters are frustrated by the fact that the president refuses to change direction on Iraq," said Pelosi spokesman Brendan Daly. Bush's approval ratings are lowest for his handling of Iraq and domestic issues including health care, with about one-third seeing him favorably. About four in 10 like the job he is doing on the economy and foreign policy. Men give the president higher grades than women do, whites higher than minorities, and married people higher than singles. The AP-Ipsos survey involved telephone interviews with 1,000 adults. It has a margin of sampling error of plus or minus 3 percentage points. AP Manager of News Surveys Trevor Tompson and AP News Survey Specialist Dennis Junius contributed to this report. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. All blogs on KnoxNews.com Photography and archived photos Multimedia and special projects Be the first to know when breaking news occurs. Sign up to receive our Big Dog Alerts in your email. Copyright 2006 - KnoxNews.com is an Other E.W. Scripps sites:
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/M/MCCAIN_BUSH?SITE=TNKNN&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	KnoxNews: News from the Associated Press View all of the AP's breaking news stories Email this page to a friend May 10, 11:06 PM EDT McCain says Bush's numbers hurt GOP Buy AP Photo Reprints Iraq? Global Warming? Gay Marriage? See Where the Candidates Stand Latest Photos of John McCain McCain says Bush's numbers hurt GOP McCain: Tough for abortion rights rivals McCain criticizes Clinton's Iraq move McCain favors a 'League of Democracies' GRAND RAPIDS, Mich. (AP) -- Republican presidential candidate John McCain said Thursday he believes President Bush's low approval ratings are hurting the GOP yet won't affect the party's 2008 nominee. "I don't think there's any doubt that when the president's polling numbers are low that it harms the Republican Party in general, but I think that when it comes election time that the overwhelming majority of Americans will choose their candidate on the basis of that individual candidate's qualifications, vision and record," McCain said in an interview with The Associated Press. The president's numbers have fallen largely because of his stewardship of the Iraq war. On Tuesday, 11 moderate House Republicans met with Bush at the White House and bluntly told him that the war was unsustainable without public support and that it was damaging GOP political fortunes. McCain, a four-term Arizona senator, said that despite what he called Bush's mismanagement of the war, "there's no doubt that, in my view, the president's not given credit for a healthy economy" or that there hasn't been another terrorist attack on the United States since Sept. 11, 2001. "But life isn't fair," McCain said as he relaxed with a cup of coffee in the lobby of a hotel near the Gerald R. Ford International Airport. He campaigned in Michigan on Wednesday and Thursday before heading to Chicago on his way back to Washington. He said voters not only consider candidates' qualifications and experience but also their performances in presidential debates. McCain, without mentioning him by name, chided former Massachusetts Gov. Mitt Romney during a Republican presidential campaign debate last week over comments Romney made earlier about terrorist leader Osama bin Laden. Romney had said "it's not worth moving heaven and earth, spending billions of dollars, just trying to catch one person" and advocated a broader strategy to defeat Islamic jihadists. McCain called the bin Laden comment "naive." At the debate, Romney defended himself, saying "it's more than Osama bin Laden. But he is going to pay and he will die." McCain shot back that bin Laden was responsible for the deaths of thousands of innocent Americans and "we will bring him to justice and I'll follow him to the gates of hell." "We cannot allow a person to slaughter innocent Americans and not be dedicated to doing whatever is necessary to bring that person to justice," McCain said Thursday, explaining his debate comment. The Rev. Al Sharpton, a former Democratic presidential candidate, said Monday that "those of us who believe in God" will defeat Romney for the White House. Sharpton denied he was questioning the Mormon's own belief in God but Romney, while campaigning Wednesday in Iowa, called the remark "bigoted." Asked whether he agreed with Romney about what Sharpton said, McCain said, "I don't usually examine" Sharpton's comments, adding that he doesn't believe Romney's religion is a factor in the race. "I do not believe that the fact that Governor Romney is a Mormon will have the slightest impact - nor should it have any impact - on the judgment of the American people as to who their president should be," said McCain, an Episcopalian. "I soundly reject that notion." McCain also reiterated that he believes it should be up to states to decide the legality of marriage and civil unions for gay couples, which he personally opposes, but that it is all right for such couples to "engage in legal agreements and contracts." These could include agreements in which one partner can make health decisions in the event the other one becomes too ill to do so. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. All blogs on KnoxNews.com Photography and archived photos Multimedia and special projects Be the first to know when breaking news occurs. Sign up to receive our Big Dog Alerts in your email. Copyright 2006 - KnoxNews.com is an Other E.W. Scripps sites:
http://apdigitalnews.com/privacy.html	AP Digital | Terms of Use
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/E/EDWARDS_SPENDING?SITE=TNKNN&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	KnoxNews: News from the Associated Press View all of the AP's breaking news stories Email this page to a friend May 11, 12:27 PM EDT John Edwards' big ideas costly AP Photo/Charles Rex Arbogast Buy AP Photo Reprints Iraq? Global Warming? Gay Marriage? See Where the Candidates Stand Latest Photos of John Edwards John Edwards' big ideas costly Edwards discusses time at hedge fund Edwards touts husband's record for women Analysis: Calif. boosts political clout WASHINGTON (AP) -- Presidential candidate John Edwards is offering more policy proposals than any other candidate in the primary and his ideas are winning loud applause from Democratic audiences. The question is whether other voters will cheer when they see the price tag - more than $125 billion a year. Edwards is quick to acknowledge his spending on health care, energy and poverty reduction comes at a cost, with more plans to come. On Friday, he proposed an $8 billion college scholarship program, an outgrowth of his "College for Everyone" idea in 2005. All told, Edwards' proposals would equal more than $1 trillion if he could get them enacted into law and operational during two White House terms. To put the number in perspective, President Bush has dedicated more than $1.8 trillion to tax cuts. The cost of the Iraq war is nearing $450 billion. And this year's federal budget is about $2.8 trillion. Edwards says fixing the country's problems takes precedence over eliminating the deficit or offering middle-class tax relief like he proposed when running for president in the last election. "I think for me, as opposed to the additional tax relief for the middle class, what's more important is to give them relief from the extraordinary cost of health care, from gasoline prices, the things that they spend money on every single day that are escalating dramatically," Edwards said in a recent interview with The Associated Press. To pay for some of his priorities, Edwards would roll back Bush's tax cuts on Americans making more than $200,000 a year. He also said he would consider raising capital gains taxes to help fund his plans and raise or eliminate the $90,000 cap on individual earnings subject to Social Security taxes to help cover the projected shortfall in the system. Edwards also has proposed spending cuts such as cutting subsidies for the banks that make student loans for a savings of $6 billion a year. He would also save money by trimming the number of Department of Housing and Urban Development employees, negotiating Medicare prescription drug prices and cutting agricultural subsidies for corporate farms, although the campaign did not yet have estimates of how much that would bring in. Edwards' ideas have already opened him to accusations of being just another tax-and-spend liberal, a label put on Walter Mondale, the 1984 Democratic presidential nominee who said he would raise taxes and then lost 49 states to President Reagan. The Republican National Committee accused Edwards of making his first campaign promise to raise taxes. "Edwards' America Will Pay More Taxes," said a news release from the conservative Club for Growth on the day Edwards announced a plan for universal health care that would cost $90 billion to $120 billion. The cost estimate came from Ken Thorpe, an Emory University researcher who provides outside analysis on health care plans for presidential candidates. The estimate he gave the Edwards campaign was $105 billion to $145 billion in 2010 dollars - the year Edwards' plan would go into full effect. However, the campaign changed it to 2007 dollars. His plan would require employers to provide insurance or contribute to the coverage of every worker - and it would require every citizen to get coverage. The government would pay for insurance for lower income Americans and tax credits to help subsidize what other families would have to pay for coverage, funded by abolishing Bush's tax cuts for people who make more than $200,000 a year and by having the government collect more back taxes. Among other annual spending: -$15 billion-$20 billion to help achieve his goal of ending poverty in the U.S. within 30 years. That includes $4.2 billion to increase the earned income tax credit, which refunds payroll and income taxes to low-income people; $4 billion to create 1 million short-term jobs to help the unemployed climb out of poverty; and $3 billion for $500 work bonds to help low-income workers save. -$13 billion energy fund to develop and encourage more efficiency and renewable energy use. That includes $3 billion in tax credits for the production of renewable energy and $1 billion to help the U.S. auto industry modernize with the latest fuel-efficient technology. He said the fund would be paid for by selling $10 billion in greenhouse pollution permits and by ending $3 billion in subsidies for big oil companies. -$1 billion rural recovery plan with initiatives like increased investment in rural small businesses, education, health care and resources to fight methamphetamine abuse. -$5 billion in foreign aid to combat international poverty, including $3 billion to help pay for primary education for every child in the world. Edwards also has promoted other ideas he has in the works, such as an education plan that includes his goal of eliminating financial barriers to college, a border security plan and federal spending on stem cells. But he's yet to announce details or costs. Still, Edwards has been the most forthcoming Democratic candidate when it comes to describing the details of how he would like to run the country. His chief rivals - Sens. Hillary Rodham Clinton and Barack Obama - have offered few hints about their policy proposals. The ideas are the centerpiece of Edwards' plan to position himself as the party's true progressive in the primary. He hopes the big ideas will attract the liberal Iowa caucus goers, online energy and labor endorsements that he's counting on to propel him to the nomination, said Democratic strategist Chris Lehane. "If the costs become a real issue, it will be a good problem to have for him because the only folks likely to make a real argument against it would be the Republicans, which means his strategy succeeded and he was the nominee," said Lehane, who worked in the Clinton White House and for Al Gore's candidacy in 2000. Edwards said his spending proposals also would take precedence over eliminating the more than $200 billion deficit. He said he would work to lower the deficit and would not let it grow. "Those things cost money, and there's a balance between that and the need to reduce the deficit," said the former North Carolina senator. "And so the threshold question is where is the priority? ... If we're going to do those things, I think it's very difficult to eliminate the deficit - in the short term, impossible." He said he supports House Speaker Nancy Pelosi's requirement that legislation to cut taxes or boost federal benefit programs must be paid for with tax increases or other benefit cuts. But Edwards has yet to explain how he would pay for all his proposals. That will come later this year when he offers his tax plan, the campaign said. "There's definitely a lack of numbers in some of his proposals," said Paul Weinstein Jr., chief operating officer at the centrist Progressive Policy Institute. "I think you should be commended for wanting to provide universal health care and to eliminate poverty. I think it would be more legitimate if he would identify some of the ways in which he would pay for these things." John Edwards campaign Web site: &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. All blogs on KnoxNews.com Photography and archived photos Multimedia and special projects Be the first to know when breaking news occurs. Sign up to receive our Big Dog Alerts in your email. Copyright 2006 - KnoxNews.com is an Other E.W. Scripps sites:
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/F/FIRED_PROSECUTORS?SITE=TNKNN&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	KnoxNews: News from the Associated Press View all of the AP's breaking news stories Email this page to a friend May 11, 5:35 PM EDT Ex-U.S. attorney questions own firing Buy AP Photo Reprints List of Sampson Documents Withheld from Congress Part I: Sampson-Miers e-mails Part II: Sampson-Miers e-mails Ex-U.S. attorney questions own firing Gonzales deflects Democrats' criticism Excerpts from Gonzales hearing WASHINGTON (AP) -- A former West Virginia federal prosecutor said Friday the White House fired him in 2005 in the middle of a corruption and vote-buying investigation but never told him why. Karl K. "Kasey" Warner said he has "concerns" and sees parallels between himself and eight other ousted U.S. attorneys. Congress and an internal Justice Department agency are investigating whether those firings were politically motivated. The Justice Department rejected any suggestion of politics in Warner's dismissal. "The notion that the termination was political is absolutely false," spokesman Dean Boyd said. "We encourage Mr. Warner to provide the department with a written privacy waiver and we will be happy to provide you with the reason for his removal." Warner would not elaborate on what concerned him about his August 2005 firing but rejected the idea that he was fired over his performance. "The facts speak for themselves. Look into how I ran my office. See how I managed the office," Warner said. "If they want to look at the cases I had and the corruption cases we have now, people can come to their own conclusions about why I was let go." Warner said he refused to resign when asked by the Justice Department, responding that he took his direction from President Bush. "Next thing I know, I get a letter from the president's counsel, Harriet Miers, saying I'd been fired, no reason given," Warner recounted in a telephone interview. A state legislative audit later revealed e-mails in which Warner had offered to secretly contribute to a 2004 county political campaign. "Let me try to steer some contributions your way (gently) and perhaps use a family member with a different last name to make my contribution," Warner wrote in one July 2003 e-mail, according to the audit. Warner said he never followed through on the offer and discounted that as a reason behind his departure. Warner was nominated by Bush in 2001 to serve as the top federal prosecutor in southern West Virginia. The heavily Democratic district is the center of the state's coal industry. Bush carried the state in both 2000 and 2004. Almost immediately Warner made public corruption and vote-buying cases a priority, sometimes to the ire of Democrats who accused him of targeting them for political purposes. Warner's brother Kris was the Republican state party chairman, and his brother Monty ran for governor. Some former U.S. attorneys such as New Mexico's David Iglesias said Republican politicians pressured them to rush public corruption investigations in election years. Warner would not comment on whether he received any such pressure and would not say who was being investigated when he was fired. "Speaking generally," he said, "in my mind, if you want a good justice system, you don't remove U.S. attorneys to thwart ongoing criminal investigations." Attorney General Alberto Gonzales has denied that politics influenced hiring and firing decisions. And though Gonzales has apologized for mishandling the controversy, he has rejected calls from lawmakers to step down. The Justice Department has also said it never tried to influence an investigation for political reasons. An internal probe is under way. Warner's statements came on the heels of those by former western Missouri U.S. Attorney Todd Graves, who said he was forced out in March 2006. Graves said he fell out of favor with the Justice Department after refusing to cooperate with the filing of a Missouri voter fraud lawsuit a year before the 2006 election. Congress is holding hearings on the eight other firings, and former Justice Department White House liaison Monica Goodling is shaping up to be a main witness. A federal judge approved an immunity deal for her Friday, allowing her to testify without fear of prosecution. Warner's statements echo those by former Maryland U.S. Attorney Thomas M. DiBiagio, who in March said he believed he was fired for investigating corruption in a Republican governor's administration. The Justice Department said DiBiagio was fired for writing e-mails calling for "front-page" corruption indictments before Election Day. Warner said that, if asked, he would cooperate with any investigation. But he said he has made peace with his termination and is not trying to become part of the Capitol Hill story line. That's why the former Army officer said he has not approached investigators. "Sometimes soldiers catch a bullet. If you're truly out there doing your job, if you're truly a leader, sometimes you catch a bullet," he said. "It might not be fair, it might not be right, it might be sad, but that's part of what you do. I caught a bullet. It's not something you cry about or complain about." Associated Press writers Lara Jakes Jordan in Washington and Lawrence Messina in Charleston, W.Va., contributed to this report. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. All blogs on KnoxNews.com Photography and archived photos Multimedia and special projects Be the first to know when breaking news occurs. Sign up to receive our Big Dog Alerts in your email. Copyright 2006 - KnoxNews.com is an Other E.W. Scripps sites:
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/O/ON_THE_2008_TRAIL?SITE=TXWIC&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	Find Lowest Gas Prices How Now Joe Brown Make us your homepage May 11, 6:03 PM EDT Romney Cites Scripture on Gay Marriage Buy AP Photo Reprints Iraq? Global Warming? Gay Marriage? See Where the Candidates Stand BOSTON (AP) -- Republican presidential candidate Mitt Romney is defending his opposition to gay marriage by citing the Scriptures. The former Massachusetts governor, who in his 1994 Senate bid pledged to be a more effective champion for gay causes than his Democratic rival, discussed gay marriage in an interview set to air Sunday on CBS' "60 Minutes." "This isn't just some temporary convenience here on Earth, but we're people that are designed to live together as male and female and we're gonna have families," he tells interviewer Mike Wallace, according to an excerpt CBS released Friday. "And that, there's a great line in the Bible that children are an inheritance of the Lord and happy is he who has or hath his quiver full of them." Romney, seeking to become the first Mormon president, also tries to allay any concerns about his religion. "What's at the heart of my faith is a belief that there's a creator, that we're all children of the same God, and that fundamentally the relationship you have with your spouse is important and eternal," Romney said over the course of two interviews, one of which was taped at his vacation home in Wolfeboro, N.H. Meanwhile, Romney also is on the cover of the latest edition of Time magazine. In its main story, Time writes, "The closest he has ever come to a personal religious crisis, he recalls, was when he was in college and considering whether to go off on a mission, as his grandfather, father and brother had done. ... He says he also felt guilty about the draft deferment he would get for it, when other young men his age were heading for Vietnam." Romney offered a slightly different tale during an interview with the Boston Herald during his 1994 U.S. Senate campaign. "I didn't go on a mission to avoid the draft," Romney said at the time. "I never asked my dad (Michigan Gov. George Romney) in any way to be involved with the draft board. "Romney, however, acknowledged he did not have any desire to serve in the military during his college and missionary days, especially after he married and became a father," the newspaper wrote. "'I was not planning on signing up for the military,' he said. It was not my desire to go off and serve in Vietnam, but nor did I take any actions to remove myself from the pool of young men who were eligible for the draft. If drafted, I would have been happy to serve, and if I didn't get drafted I was happy to be with my wife and new child.'" PORTSMOUTH, N.H. (AP) - Presidential candidate John McCain has made another change in his struggling campaign, dismissing his New Hampshire campaign manager on Friday. Jim Martin had run the Arizona Republican's campaign in the state and was part of McCain's 2000 victory in the state. But the campaign decided to replace him with Jim Barnett, who had been a top political operative. McCain's New Hampshire Communications Director Jill Hazelbaker said the departure came Friday. "While we appreciate his hard work, Jim Barnett will assume the day-to-day responsibilities going forward," she said. "Barnett is a talented political professional with extensive campaign experience, and he will work closely with Mike Dennehy to build out our ground operation to ensure that we win the primary." Barnett had served as chairman of the Vermont Republican Party and joined the McCain campaign as the regional political director. "We need someone who knows what it takes on every level of a campaign and understand a get-out-the-vote process. Jim Barnett is that person," said Dennehy, a McCain consultant who stepped down earlier this week as national political director and returned to help New Hampshire's office. Earlier this year, McCain restructured his campaign fundraising organization after a lackluster first quarter. EXETER, N.H. (AP) - Two days before Mother's Day, Democratic presidential hopeful Hillary Rodham Clinton appeared with a group of New Hampshire moms to highlight what she called the "inequities and absurdities" that prevent children from receiving quality health care. "I think one of the greatest gifts you can give any mother is the health of a child," Clinton said Friday at Exeter Hospital, where the three mothers who joined her on stage did most of the talking. AnnMarie Morse of Candia described her crusade to change state law after her daughter died of colon cancer in 2005. Michelle Morse, 22, had continued to attend college full-time during her chemotherapy to keep her health insurance. Under what became known as "Michelle's Law," insurance companies that cover college students under their parents' plans must continue the coverage if a student takes a medical leave of absence. Clinton, a sponsor of federal legislation that would expand Michelle's Law nationwide, called Morse's story one of many examples of a parent who does all the right things, but still struggles with health insurance. "You think you've taken care of your family. You've been paying your insurance premiums, and when you need it the most it's not there for you," she said. "It's one of the reasons we need to change the whole system, but until we can change the whole system, we have to try to get rid of the inequities and absurdities that stand in the way of people getting the care they deserve and need." NEW YORK (AP) - Despite constant denials that he is running for president, New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg laid out a national energy plan Friday and took veiled jabs at his potential opponents, accusing them of "politics as usual." The Republican billionaire outlined an energy plan that proposes creating profit motives for reducing greenhouse gas emissions, building new wind farms and nuclear plants, phasing out incandescent light bulbs and setting early deadlines to accomplish these goals. Bloomberg, who recently launched an effort to drastically reduce pollution by 2030 in New York City, suggested that those who set later deadlines like 2050 and 2070 are afraid to do the work and make the commitments now. A number of presidential candidates - including Democrats John Edwards, Barack Obama and Chris Dodd, and Republican John McCain - have their own proposals with a 2050 endpoint, or support plans with that deadline. "Legislators that make promises to achieve something in the far-off distant future but refuse to take steps now that would allow us to begin the process are really very hypocritical," Bloomberg said. "That's not leadership, that's not what this country needs. It's passing the buck. And unfortunately for Washington today, it's what we call politics as usual." Bloomberg, a billionaire, has repeatedly said he will not enter the presidential race, although he and his aides have continued to fuel speculation with coy remarks, as well as a greater focus on national issues and travel outside New York. Associated Press Writers Sara Kugler in New York, Holly Ramer in Exeter, N.H., Rasha Madkour in Houston and Philip Elliott in Portsmouth, N.H., contributed to this report. (This version CORRECTS SUBS 4th graf, 2nd item to correct job with Vermont GOP) &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. 2006 Wichita Falls Times Record News Email Tony Kouri (940-720-3412) Other E.W. Scripps sites:
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/B/BUSH_SPENDING?SITE=TXWIC&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	Find Lowest Gas Prices How Now Joe Brown Make us your homepage May 11, 6:03 PM EDT White House Takes Hard Line on Spending AP-Ipsos Poll: Bush and Congress Iraqi Officials Discourage U.S. Pullout White House Takes Hard Line on Spending Reid Extends Negotiations on Immigration Poll: Congress, Bush Share Low Approval Lobbying Reform Losing Steam in House The 110th Congress' First 100 Hours Sen. Max Baucus: The AP Interview Mark Foley Scandal Timeline Harry Reid Land Deal Congressional Leadership Financial Disclosure Harry Reid's Ties to Abramoff DeLay and Blunt: Following the Money Congress Goes to Bat for Tribes Buy AP Photo Reprints WASHINGTON (AP) -- The White House struck a hard line on spending Friday, warning Democrats in Congress that their efforts to boost domestic programs such as education would provoke vetoes this fall. In a letter to lawmakers, White House budget chief Rob Portman vowed that President Bush will veto appropriations bills - the 12 annual spending measures funding Cabinet agency budgets - that bust Bush's budget targets. The missive suggests, however, that Bush would permit Congress to move some funds from a record $50 billion Pentagon budget increase to domestic programs so long as lawmakers respect an overall "cap" on appropriated spending of $933 billion. The other two-thirds of the budget pays for benefit programs such as Medicare, Social Security and farm subsidies, as well as interest on the national debt. Portman's letter came as a $2.9 trillion congressional budget blueprint for next year is in House-Senate talks. The blueprint sets an overall limit for the 12 appropriations bills. Democrats have signaled they'll add more than $20 billion for domestic agency budgets, an above-inflation increase of about 5 percent. "The top line the president submitted is the top line that we want to hold," Portman told The Associated Press. The hard line comes as Democrats and Bush are also doing battle over funding for the war in Iraq. While much attention has been focused on Democratic efforts to force troop withdrawals, Bush also vetoed a $124 billion war funding bill over more than $20 billion in congressional add-ons such as aid to farmers. "The administration does not believe that the first step to a balanced budget should be a substantial increase in federal spending," Portman wrote. Democrats seemed unimpressed by Bush's warnings. "This is the same guy who's squirted away almost $600 billion on a stupid war and this is a guy who's riding at 28 percent in public opinion polls," said House Appropriations Committee Chairman David Obey, D-Wis. "His word is not the last word," said Senate Appropriations Committee Chairman Robert Byrd, D-W.Va. "The White House should step back from this petty game of brinksmanship." Bush has long battled with senior members of Congress' Appropriations committees, particularly over his attempts to freeze domestic agency budgets. But even Republicans tapped the defense budget to bolster domestic programs, and Democrats may ultimately raid Bush's eye-popping $481 billion Pentagon budget request - an 11 percent increase - to bolster domestic programs, which Bush's budget would essentially freeze at current levels. Congress' annual appropriations process typically dominates House and Senate floor schedules for the summer months as lawmakers debate budgetary minutia. The bills also provide a forum for numerous policy squabbles on topics such as abortion, relations with Cuba and whether to permit U.S. residents to purchase less expensive prescription drugs from other countries such as Canada. Bush has in fact won most of those battles, though some GOP conservatives have faulted him for not vetoing a single spending bill in his first six years in office. Bush has in the past relied on powerful GOP leaders such as former Speaker Dennis Hastert, R-Ill., to impose discipline on appropriators - a luxury he does not have now that Democrats are in charge on Capitol Hill. Now, Bush is likely to have to veto numerous bills to hold the line on spending and fend off policy "riders" such as lifting the ban on U.S. citizens traveling to Cuba. But such vetoes may lead to yet another foot-tall "omnibus" spending bill this fall as the White House and Congress stitch together post-veto compromise measures into a larger bill or bills. White House budget office: &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. 2006 Wichita Falls Times Record News Email Tony Kouri (940-720-3412) Other E.W. Scripps sites:
http://hosted.ap.org/	News from The Associated Press
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/D/DEMOCRATS_LABOR?SITE=TXWIC&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	Find Lowest Gas Prices How Now Joe Brown Make us your homepage May 11, 6:06 PM EDT Democratic Candidates Woo Firefighters Buy AP Photo Reprints PORTSMOUTH, N.H. (AP) -- Democratic presidential candidates invoked images of Sept. 11 tragedy and heroism - from a dust-caked crater in New York to bloodied firefighters - as they appealed for the endorsement of a powerful firefighters union. Firefighters emerged from the 2001 attacks as heroes, a fact not lost on the candidates wooing the International Association of Fire Fighters at a two-day meeting of union leaders. "It's hard to find anyone who will stand up and make a speech against firefighters," said Sen. Hillary Rodham Clinton. Clinton told firefighters she appreciated their work in New York City, where two plane crashes led to the fiery collapse of the World Trade Center's Twin Towers. A cloud of smoke, dust and ash hovered for days as rescue workers searched for survivors and bodies. "As a senator from New York on 9-11, I know exactly what those sacrifices were," Clinton said. "We lost so many great firefighters that day, people who rushed into that inferno and kept going up those stairs, weighed down with 100 pounds of equipment and trying to make sure if there was anyone to save, they'd get there." Sen. Joe Biden told the firefighters he'd never forget the pictures from that day. "The one thing I remember the most was that grizzled fireman, coming out of the burning debris, hunched over, absolute determination," said Biden, of Delaware. "That one photograph lifted America off its knees. That one image was the most profound image about the determination and the grit of the entire American people that ever was shown during that event." And Sen. Chris Dodd decried the lack of improvement in communications equipment for firefighters and other safety workers since then. "I think its' a failure how, after 5 1/2 years since 9-11, we still have too many states and jurisdictions that can't talk to one another in a time of crisis," the Connecticut senator said. The union, which traditionally supports Democratic bids for the White House, backed Sen. John Kerry in 2004. The 280,000-member union has feuded with Republican presidential candidate Rudy Giuliani, the former New York City mayor, excoriating him for his November 2001 decision to cut back the number of firefighters searching the rubble of Ground Zero for the remains of some 300 fallen comrades. Recently, Giuliani criticized Democrats on national security, suggesting in a New Hampshire speech that the United States could face another major terrorist attack if a Democrat is elected in 2008. Throughout the two-day conference, the Democratic candidates tried to counter that image, talking about issues key to the firefighters. Candidates pledged to support collective bargaining agreements - Clinton said they were "as American as apple pie - and better training and safer pensions. Illinois Sen. Barack Obama said more needs to be done to help firefighters secure better benefits. "Here we are, five years after 9-11 and we still have to demand health care for the men and women who did the worst work on that day," Obama said by telephone. "It's our obligation to take care of them now." And Clinton said not enough has been done to help firefighters who are suffering health problems after working on Sept. 11. "We lost so many brave firefighters that day who weren't even on duty. They came because they had to be there to help," Clinton said. "It seemed to me at that moment, whatever was required to repay the debt our country owed them, I'd want to make sure that happened." &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. 2006 Wichita Falls Times Record News Email Tony Kouri (940-720-3412) Other E.W. Scripps sites:
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/I/IMMIGRATION_CONGRESS?SITE=TXWIC&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	Find Lowest Gas Prices How Now Joe Brown Make us your homepage May 11, 4:34 PM EDT Reid Extends Negotiations on Immigration By JULIE HIRSCHFELD DAVIS Raid Captures Illegal Immigrants Shelters Provide Stability for Young Immigrants Reid Extends Negotiations on Immigration Churches Provide Immigrants Sanctuary LA Immigrant Activists Plan June Rally Okla. Gov. Signs Immigration Reform Bill Tighter Border First; Immigration Later Memo on Prosecution of Illegal Immigrants AP-Ipsos Poll: Bush and Congress Iraqi Officials Discourage U.S. Pullout White House Takes Hard Line on Spending Reid Extends Negotiations on Immigration Poll: Congress, Bush Share Low Approval Lobbying Reform Losing Steam in House The 110th Congress' First 100 Hours Sen. Max Baucus: The AP Interview Mark Foley Scandal Timeline Harry Reid Land Deal Congressional Leadership Financial Disclosure Harry Reid's Ties to Abramoff DeLay and Blunt: Following the Money Congress Goes to Bat for Tribes Buy AP Photo Reprints WASHINGTON (AP) -- Agreeing to give a fitful set of bipartisan talks more time to yield an immigration deal, Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid said Friday he would delay a vote on the issue until next Wednesday. The move postponed - at least for a day - what was shaping up as a partisan clash over immigration after weeks of negotiations between the White House and senators in both parties designed to strike a broad compromise. With that agreement still elusive, Reid is planning to force debate next week on an immigration measure that passed the Senate last year with wide Democratic backing but opposition by a majority of Republicans. GOP senators have promised to block that move, saying they will only accept a new bipartisan compromise. "Some of the senators feel that there's a breakthrough that could take place" in talks over the weekend and early next week, said Reid, D-Nev., adding that he would "reluctantly" postpone the test-vote, which he had set for Tuesday. He has now set the vote for next Wednesday. Sen. Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., said the move would "give us the maximum opportunity to piece back together the bipartisan agreement that we thought we almost had a week or so ago." Talks are continuing on the possible deal, which would first secure the U.S.-Mexico border and implement an elaborate high-tech identification system for immigrant workers, and only then give millions of illegal immigrants a chance at legal status - after waits as long as 13 more years. Many Democrats and Republicans are wary of such an agreement, which also would limit immigrants' ability to bring their families to the U.S. Democrats fear it will be rejected as too punitive by their liberal base, while Republicans are concerned about alienating conservatives by appearing to treat illegal immigrants too leniently. President Bush plans to use his Saturday weekly radio address to urge Congress to reshape immigration laws. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. 2006 Wichita Falls Times Record News Email Tony Kouri (940-720-3412) Other E.W. Scripps sites:
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/G/GIULIANI_ABORTION?SITE=TXWIC&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	Find Lowest Gas Prices How Now Joe Brown Make us your homepage May 11, 6:22 PM EDT Giuliani Defends Stance on Abortion Buy AP Photo Reprints See how your responses stack up against the majority of Americans on abortion. Iraq? Global Warming? Gay Marriage? See Where the Candidates Stand Giuliani Defends Stance on Abortion Giuliani Backs Army Buildup Nearing 600K Giuliani Says Saddam Paying for Offenses Rudy Giuliani Assails Venezuela's Chavez Giuliani Counts Backers Who Aren't Fans Latest Photos of Rudy Giuliani Video: Excerpts from the film 'Giuliani Time' HOUSTON (AP) -- Republican presidential candidate Rudy Giuliani forcefully reaffirmed his support for abortion rights on Friday and argued that his divergence from conservatives on the issue should not disqualify him from being the eventual GOP nominee. "This is a matter of deep and profound judgment," he said in a speech at Houston Baptist University. "It's a matter of morals. It's a matter of your interpretation of how laws should operate, your interpretation of how respect for the rights of others should operate. But in a country like ours ... I believe you have to respect their viewpoint and give them a level of choice. I would grant women the right to make that choice." The former New York City mayor has struggled in the last week to explain his personal opposition to abortion with his long public record of favoring a woman's right to choose. He has defended his positions - and some say contradictory comments - on late-term abortion, public funding for abortions and the 1973 Supreme Court ruling that legalized abortion. But Giuliani left few questions about his position Friday, telling about 500 students and faculty at the small conservative school that - despite his belief that abortion was "morally wrong" - he believes the decision should ultimately be left to individuals and their decisions should be respected. Opposition to abortion has been a litmus test for conservatives within the Republican Party, who hold considerable sway in the primaries. Giuliani has drawn criticism from some in the GOP for his abortion rights support. One of his rivals, former Massachusetts Gov. Mitt Romney, has switched from supporting abortion rights to opposing the procedure - a shift that also has drawn complaints. Another rival, Sam Brownback, said Friday that an abortion rights Republican would have trouble winning the nomination. His comments echoed those of another candidate, Sen. John McCain of Arizona. "It is a pro-life party, with a pro-choice wing," said the Kansas senator, who spoke during a taping of Iowa Public Television's "Iowa Press" program. "I think he has great trouble winning off of that position." Brownback also criticized Romney's switch. "I do think what will be a deal-breaker is if you flip on core issues like life, taxes, second amendment rights," he said. Giuliani, acknowledging that his position on abortion differed from that of most of his audience, urged them to consider his views on other issues as well before deciding whether to support his candidacy. "You have a right to evaluate this in figuring out if you can support me, and at what level you can support me," Giuliani said. "Everybody's got to make a choice. How important are the differences and then how important are the other issues that are involved in this election?" Giuliani emphasized his conservative credentials on tax cuts, crime and the war in Iraq. He said his eight years as mayor of New York showed he could apply conservative social and economic principles even in the face of substantial opposition. HBU President Robert Sloan said the Giuliani campaign called the university on Wednesday and asked if the candidate could speak there this week. Sloan said that, although campaign officials would not discuss why they had chosen HBU, he believed it was because Giuliani "wanted to forthrightly speak on social issues in an audience where religious matters and moral issues truly matter." Several students praised Giuliani's speech, but said it was unlikely to make them support his candidacy. "Overall, I thought it was a great speech," said Erik Mignault, a 25-year-old political science major at HBU. "I agree that we're not going to agree 100 percent with all candidates. I think it was a good political stance to take. He's sitting right in the middle." But Mignault and several other students said they were anti-abortion and likely to support a more conservative GOP candidate. Giuliani's appearance was greeted warmly, and he appeared playful at times, hoisting a child with an "I Love New York" T-shirt and laughing at boos when he spoke of his love for the New York Yankees, the team that this week acquired Houston Astros star pitcher Roger Clemens. But Giuliani told the audience that they should support a candidate who could protect America from terrorism and from Democratic assaults on the economy. He acknowledged that abortion was the issue that most divided them. "I have profound respect for your views," he said. "I have profound respect for your education, and I have profound respect for your religion." But, he said, it is uniquely American to disagree on some political issues while agreeing on many others. "We understand how to respect each other's differences," he said. Associated Press Writer Mike Glover in Johnston, Iowa, contributed to this report. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. 2006 Wichita Falls Times Record News Email Tony Kouri (940-720-3412) Other E.W. Scripps sites:
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/U/US_IRAQ?SITE=TXWIC&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	Find Lowest Gas Prices How Now Joe Brown Make us your homepage May 11, 7:06 PM EDT Iraqi Officials Discourage U.S. Pullout House Agrees to Fund Iraq War Through July Bush Calls on Congress to Be Patient With Iraq The Toll: Coalition Casualties Since March 2003 U.S. Allows Mahdi Army a Security Role Iraqis Struggle in Police Training Four Years: AP Journalists Look Back Iraq and Vietnam: Contrasting Protests Land Mines From Iran-Iraq War Sold on Black Market Iraqi Outpost Tests War Strategy Iraq's Toll Felt Across U.S. Soldier Diagnosed Before Attack end soldier diagnosis --> end interactive icon section --> Latest photos from Iraq War Tensions Follow Bush to Commencement Iraqi Officials Discourage U.S. Pullout Car Bombings Kill 23 at Baghdad Bridges Radical Iraqi Cleric Said to Be in Iran White House Takes Hard Line on Spending Executive Summary: DOD Inspector General on Pre-Iraq War Intelligence Activities(2/9/2007) Unclassified National Intelligence Estimate Summary on Iraq (2/2/2007) Inspector General Report on Iraq Reconstruction (1/31/2007) AP-Ipsos Poll: Bush and Congress Iraqi Officials Discourage U.S. Pullout White House Takes Hard Line on Spending Reid Extends Negotiations on Immigration Poll: Congress, Bush Share Low Approval Lobbying Reform Losing Steam in House The 110th Congress' First 100 Hours Sen. Max Baucus: The AP Interview Mark Foley Scandal Timeline Harry Reid Land Deal Congressional Leadership Financial Disclosure Harry Reid's Ties to Abramoff DeLay and Blunt: Following the Money Congress Goes to Bat for Tribes Buy AP Photo Reprints WASHINGTON (AP) -- Worried Congress' support for Iraq is deteriorating rapidly, Baghdad dispatched senior officials to Capitol Hill this week to warn members one-on-one that pulling out U.S. troops would have disastrous consequences. The lobbying push targeted Republicans and Democrats alike, but focused primarily on those considered influential on the war debate. On Thursday, hours before the House voted to limit funds for the war, Iraqi Deputy Prime Minister Barham Saleh met with more than 30 House Republicans and more than a half-dozen senators, including Sens. Harry Reid, D-Nev., John Warner, R-Va., and Hillary Rodham Clinton, D-N.Y. "He understands that American patience is waning," said Sen. Norm Coleman, after eating lunch with Saleh, Iraqi Ambassador Samir Shakir al-Sumaidaie and Sen. Saxby Chambliss. But the lobbying by the Iraqis isn't the only pressure-point being applied in Washington. Clinton said Friday she considered it "promising" that several Republican House members went to the White House and told President Bush they believe the continuing war is adversely affecting the party. She said the GOP lawmakers told Bush pointblank that "he has to change course in Iraq." But she also said she didn't think that Bush was ready to reverse course. "I think we're going to go back and forth on this for a while longer," Clinton said in an interview Friday on MSNBC's "Morning Joe" program with Joe Scarborough. "It is clear that whatever the mission used to be, it is either accomplished or over," she said. "If there are remaining American interests, then let's spell them out." Baghdad's ability to sell members like Coleman, R-Minn., and Chambliss, R-Ga., on the war effort is critical if the Iraqi government wants U.S. troops to stay. Coleman in recent months has become deeply skeptical of the president's decision to send additional troops to Iraq and says patience on the war in general is limited. Coleman, Chambliss and Sen. John Sununu, R-N.H., who met separately with Saleh, will be up for re-election next year - facing voters who have grown tired of a war in its fifth year and that has killed more than 3,380 troops. While Republicans have been reluctant to intervene, many say President Bush has until September to tell if the troop buildup in Iraq is working before they demand another approach. With the clock ticking, Saleh - a Kurdish politician highly regarded by U.S. officials and who speaks impeccable English - said he came to Capitol Hill to convey the "imperative of success" in Iraq. "Iraq is a central battleground in this historic conflict" against terrorism, he said in a brief interview after meeting with Reid, the Senate majority leader. His trip came on the heels of a visit by Mowaffak al-Rubaie, the national security adviser to Iraqi Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki, along with three other senior advisers, according to the Iraqi embassy. The New York Times first reported al-Rubaie's visit on Tuesday. The timing of these meetings is no mistake. This month, Congress is expected to send Bush legislation that funds the war in Iraq but requires the Baghdad government meet certain political and security reforms. In question is what consequences the Iraqis should face if they fail. Democrats want U.S. troops to leave, Republicans say they don't want to force redeployments, but some say they would be open to withholding more than $5 billion in foreign aid. The House voted 221-205 Thursday for a stronger measure that would fund the war only through July, giving Congress the option of cutting off money after that. The bill is unlikely to survive in the Senate, although it indicates the war's unpopularity among members and their frustration with the lack of progress in the Iraqi parliament. The most recent irritant among U.S. lawmakers was a report that Iraqi officials would break for two months this summer. "Our armed forces are up to 150,000 troops; we're over $600 billion appropriated for this, lost 3,300 lives, 25,000 wounded fellow citizens. ... And the Iraqi answer? We're taking a summer off. Goin' fishing," said Rep. Rahm Emanuel, D-Ill. Saleh said he expects the vacation to be shortened by at least a month, although nothing had been decided. He added that Iraqis value being independent and do "not take kindly of (U.S. officials) telling us when to recess." Democrats seemed to consider these meetings with Iraqi officials as beneficial - if only to convey their frustration to Iraqi officials in person. Reid's spokesman Jim Manley said the senator told Saleh that "U.S. patience, blood and treasure were not unlimited and that the Congress would be taking a more decisive role in the coming weeks and months." "Salih understood the point, and said he would deliver the message to the Iraqi cabinet," Manley added. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. 2006 Wichita Falls Times Record News Email Tony Kouri (940-720-3412) Other E.W. Scripps sites:
http://apdigitalnews.com/privacy.html	AP Digital | Terms of Use
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/L/LOBBYING_REFORM?SITE=TXWIC&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	Find Lowest Gas Prices How Now Joe Brown Make us your homepage May 11, 3:31 PM EDT Lobbying Reform Losing Steam in House AP-Ipsos Poll: Bush and Congress Iraqi Officials Discourage U.S. Pullout White House Takes Hard Line on Spending Reid Extends Negotiations on Immigration Poll: Congress, Bush Share Low Approval Lobbying Reform Losing Steam in House The 110th Congress' First 100 Hours Sen. Max Baucus: The AP Interview Mark Foley Scandal Timeline Harry Reid Land Deal Congressional Leadership Financial Disclosure Harry Reid's Ties to Abramoff DeLay and Blunt: Following the Money Congress Goes to Bat for Tribes Buy AP Photo Reprints WASHINGTON (AP) -- House Democrats are suddenly balking at the tough lobbying reforms they touted to voters last fall as a reason for putting them in charge of Congress. Now that they are running things, many Democrats want to keep the big campaign donations and lavish parties that lobbyists put together for them. They're also having second thoughts about having to wait an extra year before they can become high-paid lobbyists themselves should they retire or be defeated at the polls. The growing resistance to several proposed reforms now threatens passage of a bill that once seemed on track to fulfill Democrats' campaign promise of cleaner fundraising and lobbying practices. "The longer we wait, the weaker the bill seems to get," said Craig Holman of Public Citizen, which has pushed for the changes. "The sense of urgency is fading," he said, in part because scandals such as those involving disgraced lobbyist Jack Abramoff and former Rep. Duke Cunningham, R-Calif., have given way to other news. The situation concerns some Democrats, who note their party campaigned against a "culture of corruption" in 2006, when voters ended a long run of Republican control of Congress. Several high-profile issues remained in doubt Friday, five days before the House Judiciary Committee is to take up the legislation. They include proposals to: -Require lobbyists to disclose details about large donations they arrange for politicians. -Make former lawmakers wait two years, instead of one, before lobbying Congress. -Bar lobbyists from throwing large parties for lawmakers at national political conventions. All appeared headed for adoption in January when the Senate, with much fanfare, included them in a lobby-reform bill that passed easily. But the provisions, plus many others in the bill, cannot become law unless the House concurs - and that's where feet are dragging. The issues are in danger of being dropped from the House version, a Democratic member close to the negotiations said Thursday, speaking on condition of anonymity because sensitive discussions were continuing. The snags are frustrating to advocates in and out of Congress who want more restrictions and greater transparency in lobbying and fundraising. Early this year, they appeared on the edge of victory. Within hours of taking control of the House and Senate, Democrats engineered rule changes to bar lawmakers and their aides from accepting meals, gifts or trips from lobbyists or groups that employ lobbyists. They also made it far more difficult for lawmakers to slip targeted items, known as earmarks, into spending bills without divulging the source. Such "pork projects" have greatly benefited some companies with well-connected lobbyists. These rule changes are now in effect in the House. But they will not apply to the Senate unless both chambers reconcile a lobbying bill that the president signs into law. "Members of Congress ignore this issue at their peril," said Rep. Chris Van Hollen, D-Md., who chairs his party's 2008 House campaign committee. "The public wants a Congress that is open and accountable." The chief stumbling block in the House centers on whether to require disclosures of a fundraising practice called bundling. It involves lobbyists soliciting and collecting campaign donations from other people and then presenting them in one package to the targeted candidate. Under current law, each individual check-writer must report his or her donation. But the lobbyist-bundlers, who use the practice to ingratiate themselves to politicians, often go undetected. Meaningful disclosure of bundling "is the defining issue of this bill" and must remain in the House version, said Fred Wertheimer, president of Democracy 21, a private group that supports greater transparency in government. However, resistance from some House members is so strong that Democratic leaders are thinking of dropping the bundling language from the bill, and perhaps allowing proponents to offer it later as an amendment or separate legislation. Some House members also oppose the Senate bill's tougher restrictions on retired lawmakers who plan to become lobbyists. Under current law, such retirees can immediately begin drawing pay for lobby-related activities so long as they do not contact former colleagues for one year. The Senate bill would extend the "cooling off" period to two years, and apply the ban to all lobbying activities, not just direct contacts with lawmakers. Some House members also dislike a Senate provision that would bar lobbying groups from throwing parties in honor of lawmakers at national nominating conventions. Critics call the practice a way for interest groups to ingratiate themselves with powerful officials. Meanwhile, public advocacy groups want the House and Senate to adopt tougher reporting requirements for groups that hire lobbyists to help organize supposedly grass-roots campaigns to influence Congress. One proposal would require disclosures by lobbying firms that receive at least $100,000 in a quarter for "paid communications campaigns" aimed at mobilizing the public on a given issue. Groups such as Common Cause and Democracy 21 say massive special-interest campaigns can largely hide their donors' identities because current disclosure laws apply only to direct lobbying of Congress. But organizations spanning the political spectrum oppose the idea, saying it could discourage citizens from exercising their right to petition the government. Groups urging lawmakers to reject the proposal include the American Civil Liberties Union, National Right to Life Committee and Eagle Forum. House members and aides said it was unclear whether the grass-roots proposal, which is not in the Senate bill, will be added to the House measure. The Senate bill is S. 1 &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. 2006 Wichita Falls Times Record News Email Tony Kouri (940-720-3412) Other E.W. Scripps sites:
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/O/OBAMA_MEDICARE?SITE=TXWIC&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	Find Lowest Gas Prices How Now Joe Brown Make us your homepage May 11, 4:07 PM EDT Obama Assails Private Medicare Plans Obama Assails Private Medicare Plans Officials Detail Medicare-Bilking Scheme GAO to Release Report on Medicare Veteran Official to Be Medicare Chief Buy AP Photo Reprints Latest Photos of Barack Obama Obama Assails Private Medicare Plans Obama Renews Pressing Grassley on Iraq Obama Overstates Kansas Tornado Deaths Obama: U.S. Auto Fuel Efficiency Lacking Michelle Obama Campaigns for Husband Video: Obama's Speaking Style Barack Obama: The AP Interview Iraq? Global Warming? Gay Marriage? See Where the Candidates Stand DES MOINES, Iowa (AP) -- Democratic presidential hopeful Barack Obama on Friday proposed cutting government subsidies to private insurance companies under Medicare by $150 billion over the next decade. Campaigning for support in next winter's caucuses, Obama said the money could be used to strengthen the Medicare program overall, including a reduction in the prices seniors pay for prescription drug prices. "We don't do that because we are not setting the agenda in Washington, insurance companies and drug companies are. That's what people want to turn the page on," the Illinois senator said to loud applause. "We want a system that's fair and sensible to everyone." Obama's campaign said more than 53,000 Iowans are enrolled in private plans under the so-called Medicare Advantage program. They likely would face a reduction in coverage or an increase in out-of-pocket costs if the government cut its payments to the insurance companies. Supporters of these programs nationally say they provide additional benefits, such as eyeglass coverage, and often offer better care than the government-run program. Critics contend the government's subsidies are far too generous for the care provided, and should be reduced. The Medicare Payment Advisory Commission, an independent group that advises Congress on the program, estimates that the government pays $112 a year to cover a Medicare beneficiary in a private plan for every $100 it pays for the traditional fee for service program. Obama proposed eliminating the difference. At least part of the gap results from legislation that Congress passed in recent years to increase payments in rural areas, an attempt to make sure seniors in sparsely populated regions have a choice of health care. In a written statement accompanying his appearance, Obama said, "we shouldn't be rewarding the insurance industry for deceiving and defrauding our seniors, we should be doing everything we can to stop them." A campaign spokesman, Bill Burton, said the Illinois Democrat did not intend to label all insurance companies operating Medicare Advantage plans as deceitful. "Besides some bad actors here, as MedPAC, the independent body that advises Congress on this issue, has pointed out, these overpayments appear to be driving up Medicare costs," he said. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. 2006 Wichita Falls Times Record News Email Tony Kouri (940-720-3412) Other E.W. Scripps sites:
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/R/ROMNEY_WEALTH?SITE=TXWIC&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	Find Lowest Gas Prices How Now Joe Brown Make us your homepage May 11, 7:04 PM EDT Romney's Estimated Wealth in Millions Buy AP Photo Reprints Latest Photos of Mitt Romney Romney's Estimated Wealth in Millions Critics Fault Romney's Abortion Record Romney Assails Sharpton's Mormon Comment Sharpton Denies Disputing Romney's Faith Romney Ad Touts Plan to Expand Military Iraq? Global Warming? Gay Marriage? See Where the Candidates Stand WASHINGTON (AP) -- Republican Mitt Romney is expected to report financial assets between $190 million and $250 million, an amount that would likely make him the wealthiest of the 2008 presidential candidates. Aides to the former Massachusetts governor said his assets have been held in a blind trust that he and his wife set up when he took office in 2002. The adviser who provided the estimate of his assets cautioned that the number is based on 2005 and 2006 financial activity and could amount to a bigger total once the disclosure report is filed later this year. The adviser spoke on condition of anonymity because the totals have not been officially released. The deadline for filing financial disclosures is Tuesday but Romney on Friday obtained an extension. Romney lent his campaign $2 million this year and could clearly tap his wealth again if necessary. Romney is not the wealthiest candidate ever to run for president. Steve Forbes, who ran unsuccessfully for the GOP nomination in 1996, had an estimate net worth of more than $430 million. John Kerry, the 2004 Democratic presidential nominee, reported a net worth between $165 million and $235 million in 2005, most of it controlled by his wife, Teresa Heinz Kerry. Under federal law, officials who are required to divulge their finances must only list their assets and income in broad ranges, making it impossible to pinpoint their exact wealth. Romney also has a blind trust for his children and grandchildren that is estimated to hold assets between $70 million and $100 million, the adviser said. Those assets do not benefit Romney or his wife and are not required to be reported in federal financial disclosures. Romney has five sons, five daughters-in-law and 10 grandchildren. In 1984, Romney founded Bain Capital, an investment company that helped finance Staples, Domino's Pizza and Brookstone. He then became interim CEO at Bain and Co., the consulting firm where he had worked in the early 1980s. He was credited with pulling Bain and Co., out of financial straits. Romney, 60, also was CEO of the Salt Lake Organizing Committee for the 2002 Winter Olympics. In the 2008 race, Romney surprised the Republican field by raising more than $20 million for his campaign in the first three months of the year, outpacing GOP front-runners Rudy Giuliani, the former New York City mayor, and Arizona Sen. John McCain. The estimated total is the first glimpse of Romney's wealth since he has been a public official. Aides said his holdings are complicated, spread across partnerships, investment funds and hedge funds. One adviser said obtaining the underlying assets of the hedge fund alone is "a pretty arduous task." Romney received permission Friday from the Federal Election Commission to delay the official filing of his financial disclosure documents for 45 days beyond Tuesday's deadline. Candidates are entitled to obtain two extensions of up to 45 days each. Most presidential candidates have yet to file their reports. Romney communications director Matt Rhoades said the trustee for Romney's blind trust and "advisers are working diligently to complete the voluminous and complex process and we'll comply with the law." Romney's top rivals, Rudy Giuliani and John McCain, also are wealthy men. McCain, an Arizona senator, amassed most of his money through investments and holdings controlled by his wife, Cindy, an heiress to a major beer distributor, Hensley & Co., founded by her father. Estimates put their net worth at between $20-$32 million. Giuliani, the former New York City mayor, earned his fortune from a multitude of business consulting ventures and paid speeches after leaving office. He received $11.4 million in speaking fees in 2006 alone, an average of about $88,000 a speech. Among Democrats, John Edwards, a former trial lawyer, listed his net worth at between $12.8 million and $60 million in 2003, his last report. Hillary Rodham Clinton, in a 2005 Senate financial disclosure, listed her net worth at between $10 million and $50 million. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. 2006 Wichita Falls Times Record News Email Tony Kouri (940-720-3412) Other E.W. Scripps sites:
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/F/FIRED_PROSECUTORS?SITE=TXWIC&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	Find Lowest Gas Prices How Now Joe Brown Make us your homepage May 11, 5:35 PM EDT Ex-U.S. Attorney Questions Own Firing Buy AP Photo Reprints List of Sampson Documents Withheld from Congress Part I: Sampson-Miers e-mails Part II: Sampson-Miers e-mails Ex-U.S. Attorney Questions Own Firing Gonzales Deflects Democrats' Criticism Excerpts From Gonzales Hearing WASHINGTON (AP) -- A former West Virginia federal prosecutor said Friday the White House fired him in 2005 in the middle of a corruption and vote-buying investigation but never told him why. Karl K. "Kasey" Warner said he has "concerns" and sees parallels between himself and eight other ousted U.S. attorneys. Congress and an internal Justice Department agency are investigating whether those firings were politically motivated. The Justice Department rejected any suggestion of politics in Warner's dismissal. "The notion that the termination was political is absolutely false," spokesman Dean Boyd said. "We encourage Mr. Warner to provide the department with a written privacy waiver and we will be happy to provide you with the reason for his removal." Warner would not elaborate on what concerned him about his August 2005 firing but rejected the idea that he was fired over his performance. "The facts speak for themselves. Look into how I ran my office. See how I managed the office," Warner said. "If they want to look at the cases I had and the corruption cases we have now, people can come to their own conclusions about why I was let go." Warner said he refused to resign when asked by the Justice Department, responding that he took his direction from President Bush. "Next thing I know, I get a letter from the president's counsel, Harriet Miers, saying I'd been fired, no reason given," Warner recounted in a telephone interview. A state legislative audit later revealed e-mails in which Warner had offered to secretly contribute to a 2004 county political campaign. "Let me try to steer some contributions your way (gently) and perhaps use a family member with a different last name to make my contribution," Warner wrote in one July 2003 e-mail, according to the audit. Warner said he never followed through on the offer and discounted that as a reason behind his departure. Warner was nominated by Bush in 2001 to serve as the top federal prosecutor in southern West Virginia. The heavily Democratic district is the center of the state's coal industry. Bush carried the state in both 2000 and 2004. Almost immediately Warner made public corruption and vote-buying cases a priority, sometimes to the ire of Democrats who accused him of targeting them for political purposes. Warner's brother Kris was the Republican state party chairman, and his brother Monty ran for governor. Some former U.S. attorneys such as New Mexico's David Iglesias said Republican politicians pressured them to rush public corruption investigations in election years. Warner would not comment on whether he received any such pressure and would not say who was being investigated when he was fired. "Speaking generally," he said, "in my mind, if you want a good justice system, you don't remove U.S. attorneys to thwart ongoing criminal investigations." Attorney General Alberto Gonzales has denied that politics influenced hiring and firing decisions. And though Gonzales has apologized for mishandling the controversy, he has rejected calls from lawmakers to step down. The Justice Department has also said it never tried to influence an investigation for political reasons. An internal probe is under way. Warner's statements came on the heels of those by former western Missouri U.S. Attorney Todd Graves, who said he was forced out in March 2006. Graves said he fell out of favor with the Justice Department after refusing to cooperate with the filing of a Missouri voter fraud lawsuit a year before the 2006 election. Congress is holding hearings on the eight other firings, and former Justice Department White House liaison Monica Goodling is shaping up to be a main witness. A federal judge approved an immunity deal for her Friday, allowing her to testify without fear of prosecution. Warner's statements echo those by former Maryland U.S. Attorney Thomas M. DiBiagio, who in March said he believed he was fired for investigating corruption in a Republican governor's administration. The Justice Department said DiBiagio was fired for writing e-mails calling for "front-page" corruption indictments before Election Day. Warner said that, if asked, he would cooperate with any investigation. But he said he has made peace with his termination and is not trying to become part of the Capitol Hill story line. That's why the former Army officer said he has not approached investigators. "Sometimes soldiers catch a bullet. If you're truly out there doing your job, if you're truly a leader, sometimes you catch a bullet," he said. "It might not be fair, it might not be right, it might be sad, but that's part of what you do. I caught a bullet. It's not something you cry about or complain about." Associated Press writers Lara Jakes Jordan in Washington and Lawrence Messina in Charleston, W.Va., contributed to this report. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. 2006 Wichita Falls Times Record News Email Tony Kouri (940-720-3412) Other E.W. Scripps sites:
