http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/V/VIRGINIA_TECH_GRADUATION?SITE=SCFLO&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	South Carolina Now (SCNow.com) - APNews | Grand Strand and Pee Dee May 11, 6:16 PM EDT Va. Tech Graduations Honor Slain Victims Virginia Tech Prepares for Commencement Dan O'Neil Memorial Concert Buy AP Photo Reprints Virginia Tech Shooting Coverage Students Return to Classes Slain Singer Honored With Concert Virginia Tech: A Self-Portrait Portraits of the Victims Timeline of Seung-Hui Cho's Life The Victims: A Family Mourns The Victims: Holocaust Survivor Saves Students Memorials: Field of Grief Search Warrants for Cho's Computer, Phone and Medical Records (ABC News) Cho's Mental Health Records Objects Seized from Cho's Room Va. Tech Graduations Honor Slain Victims Va. Tech Review Panel Holds 1st Meeting Gen. Abizaid to Give Va. Tech Speech URL Buyers Hope to Cash in on Tragedy Va. Tech Seniors Prepare for Transition Va. Tech to Honor Victims at Graduation Cho Didn't Get Court-Ordered Treatment Bomb Warning Found Before Tech Shooting Opinions Vary on Fate of Va. Tech Hall Va. Tech Fields Merchandise Requests BLACKSBURG, Va. (AP) -- Thousands of Virginia Tech graduates struggled to balance joy with grief as commencement ceremonies got under way Friday, less than a month after a student gunman's rampage devastated the campus. In an address to about 600 of the nearly 1,200 graduate students who received master's degrees, President Charles Steger spoke to the community's grief while encouraging the graduates to be proud of their accomplishments and hopeful for their futures. "Our hearts are saddened and our minds are troubled," Steger said. A larger ceremony for some 3,600 graduating seniors was set for Friday evening, where the school planned to issue class rings to relatives of the 26 slain students, followed by diplomas in smaller ceremonies Saturday. "Short was their stay on this mortal stage. Great was their impact," Steger said of the slain students. Gunman Seung-Hui Cho also killed five faculty members and himself. His family will not receive a ring or diploma. During the graduate ceremonies, nine slain graduate students were awarded posthumous master's degrees or doctorates. Faculty members hugged the relatives who received them, some wiping away tears and all drawing long and loud applause from the crowd of several thousand. Graduate Scott Cassell, 55, of Roanoke, hadn't planned to attend the commencement ceremonies. But after the attacks, the father of five decided he would go as a show of support for the grieving families. "I just can't fathom the loss," said Cassell, who received a master's degree in information technology. Security employees checked the bags of guests, armed police officers patrolled the grounds and state troopers stood guard at every entrance. Guests did not have to pass through metal detectors, though, and school officials said the level of security was comparable to what they would see at a home football game. James Long, whose sister, Michelle, earned a degree in history, said students would not let the tragedy overshadow their celebration. "There are too many people here to celebrate five, six years of hard work to let one guy screw that up," said Long, 25, of Richmond. Some families couldn't bear to attend graduation. Others said they had no choice but to come. "We have to. This is right for us," said Peter Read, whose freshman daughter Mary Karen Read was among those killed. Peter and Cathy Read returned to campus for more than their daughter's degree. They also returned to erase an unsettling image from the minds of their two youngest sons, Patrick, 4, and Brendan, 2. "They're a little concerned that the bad man's going to shoot them," Cathy Read said. "We can't let that idea grow in their heads." In Washington, President Bush issued a statement praising "the compassion and resilient spirit" of the Virginia Tech community and the 3,600 graduating seniors and others earning advanced or associate degrees. "Laura and I salute the Virginia Tech Class of 2007. We also remember the students and teachers whose lives were taken last month," he said. "They will always hold a special place in the hearts of this graduating class and an entire nation." Twins Andrea and Michelle Falletti of Chantilly, Va., said the shootings will not be what they remember when they look back on four years of college. Rather, they will recall spring breaks, camping trips and partying with friends. "Obviously, what has happened has affected everything in our lives, and it will affect graduation," said Andrea Falletti, 21. "In a way, it's not going to be celebrating us as much; it's more about what we've done as a community. But that's OK. I'm proud of what we've done here." Associated Press writers Sue Lindsey and Vicki Smith contributed to this report. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. Daily news, weather, and more from scnow.com, WBTW News 13, and the Morning News &copy; 2007 Media General, Inc. Subscribe to the Morning News
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/H/HOT_FUTURE?SITE=SCFLO&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	South Carolina Now (SCNow.com) - APNews | Grand Strand and Pee Dee May 11, 5:11 PM EDT NASA Study: Eastern U.S. to Get Hotter Buy AP Photo Reprints WASHINGTON (AP) -- Future eastern United States summers look much hotter than originally predicted with daily highs about 10 degrees warmer than in recent years by the mid-2080s, a new NASA study says. Previous and widely used global warming computer estimates predict too many rainy days, the study says. Because drier weather is hotter, they underestimate how warm it will be east of the Mississippi River, said atmospheric scientists Barry Lynn and Leonard Druyan of Columbia University and NASA's Goddard Institute for Space Studies. "Unless we take some strong action to curtail carbon dioxide emissions, it's going to get a lot hotter," said Lynn, now a scientist at Hebrew University of Jerusalem. "It's going to be a lot more dangerous for people who are not in the best of health." The study got mixed reviews from other climate scientists, in part because the eastern United States has recently been wetter and cooler than forecast. Instead of daily summer highs in the 1990s that averaged in the low to mid 80s Fahrenheit, the eastern United States is in for daily summer highs regularly in the low to mid 90s, the study found. The study only looked at the eastern United States because that was the focus of the funding by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Lynn said. And that's just the eastern United States as a whole. For individual cities, the future looks even hotter. In the 2080s, the average summer high will probably be 102 degrees in Jacksonville, 100 degrees in Memphis, 96 degrees in Atlanta, and 91 degrees in Chicago and Washington, according to the study published in the peer-reviewed journal Climate. But every now and then a summer will be drier than normal and that means even hotter days, Lynn said. So when Lynn's computer models spit out simulated results for July 2085 the forecasted temperatures sizzled past uncomfortable into painful. The study showed a map where the average high in the southeast neared 115 and pushed 100 in the northeast. Even Canada flirted with the low to mid 90s. Many politicians and climate skeptics have criticized computer models as erring on the side of predicting temperatures that are too hot and outcomes that are too apocalyptic with global warming. But Druyan said the problem is most computer models, especially when compared to their predictions of past observations, underestimate how bad global warming is. That's because they see too many rainy days, which tends to cool temperatures off, he said. There is an established link between rainy and cooler weather and hot and drier weather, said Kevin Trenberth, climate analysis chief at the National Center for Atmospheric Research. Rainy days means more clouds blocking the sun and more solar heat used to evaporate water, Druyan said. "I'm sorry for the bad news," Druyan said. "It gets worse everywhere." Trenberth said the link between dryness and heat works, but he is a little troubled by the computer modeling done by Lynn and Druyan and points out that recently the eastern United States has been wetter and cooler than expected. A top U.S. climate modeler, Jerry Mahlman, criticized the study as not matching models up correctly and "just sort of whistling in the dark a little bit." But Andrew Weaver of the University of Victoria, editor of the journal Climate but not of this study, praised the paper, saying "it makes perfect sense." He said it shows yet another "positive feedback" in global warming, where one aspect of climate change makes something else worse and it works like a loop. "The more we start to understand of the science, the more positive feedbacks we start to find," Weaver said. Weaver said looking at the map of a hotter eastern United States he can think of one thing: "I like living in Canada." &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. Daily news, weather, and more from scnow.com, WBTW News 13, and the Morning News &copy; 2007 Media General, Inc. Subscribe to the Morning News
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/B/BKN_PISTONS_BULLS?SITE=SCFLO&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	South Carolina Now (SCNow.com) - APNews | Grand Strand and Pee Dee May 11, 8:02 AM EDT Pistons Take 3-0 Series Lead on Bulls AP Photo/M. Spencer Green Sports Friday: Griffey Homers, and More Excerpt of 911 call in Artest domestic violence case (mp3) Nowitzki Is 1st European to Win NBA MVP Pistons Take 3-0 Series Lead on Bulls Celtics Extend Doc Rivers' Contract Stoudemire Calls Spurs 'Dirty' Players Nash Leads Votes for All-NBA First Team Fisher Fine-Tunes Jazz in Overtime Win Column: NBA Gets Race, Workplace Right Study: NBA Has Most Diverse Workforce Suns Top Spurs to Even NBA Series 1-1 LeBron Means Business As Cavs Cut Nets Buy AP Photo Reprints CHICAGO (AP) -- Tayshaun Prince scored 23 points and Chauncey Billups added 21, and the Detroit Pistons rallied from a 19-point deficit to beat the Bulls 81-74 on Thursday night in Game 3 of the Eastern Conference semifinals. The Pistons, who swept Orlando in the first round, will try to wrap up this one Sunday at the United Center. "We love a challenge, man," Billups said. "We love any time we can get 20,000 fans against us and we can start hearing the crowd boo us and the hecklers. We just take that challenge, man, and we love those situations. We thrive on those situations." No NBA team has won a best-of-seven series after dropping the first three games, and only three major professional teams have done that: the 1942 Toronto Maple Leafs, 1975 New York Islanders and 2004 Boston Red Sox. The other Eastern Conference semifinal resumes Saturday at New Jersey with Cleveland leading 2-0. In the Western Conference semifinals, Utah, which leads 2-0, is at Golden State on Friday, and Phoenix is at San Antonio on Saturday in a series tied 1-1. After blowing out the Bulls in the first two games at The Palace of Auburn Hills, the Pistons trailed 44-28 at halftime. They were down 49-30 early in the third and 55-38 midway through the quarter, and they certainly were hearing it from a raucous crowd. But Prince, Billups and Wallace brought them back. Now, they're one win away from their fifth straight conference finals. "Perseverance - that's the type of team that we are," Wallace said. "No matter what the deficit is, we feel that we can come back from it." Prince scored 13 points in the third quarter and Billups added 10. Wallace had a block in the closing seconds and hit a 3-pointer at the buzzer to pull Detroit within 61-60. He then put the Pistons ahead with a jumper just under two minutes into the fourth period and added a 3-pointer that made it a five-point game midway through the quarter. Wallace had 16 points, 11 rebounds and five blocks for Detroit, and Richard Hamilton scored 16 points. Luol Deng led Chicago with 21 points, but was just 8-for-22 from the field. The Bulls were 28-of-83 (33.7 percent), almost the same percentage (33.6) they managed in the first two games, and again, they had no answer for the Pistons' zone. Detroit used it most of the second half, and the Bulls shot 10-of-41, including 4-for-25 in the fourth quarter. And while Bulls coach Scott Skiles again downplayed its effectiveness, saying his team was "getting shots all over the place," Wallace had another view. "That's just lying to themselves about things that we do," Wallace said. Chicago came up short at the free throw line as well, missing 10 in the game, seven of those in the fourth quarter. "We just lost on our homecourt, so this loss hurts a lot more than the other two, even though we played hard tonight and fought hard," Deng said. "I think we played better today than last two games, but it's still a loss and it still hurts." The Bulls outscored the Pistons 22-6 over the final 7:15 of the second quarter, turning a 22-22 tie into a 44-28 halftime lead. Detroit coach Flip Saunders showed his team clips of the first half during the break, and to Prince the problems were obvious. "We didn't have fun in the first half, the ball wasn't moving," he said. "We just talked about moving the basketball. ... Once we made the adjustments we were in good shape." With the score 55-38 midway through the third quarter, Detroit scored 12 straight points, eight by Prince. Ben Gordon scored 16 points for Chicago, but was 4-for-16 from the field, while Kirk Hinrich had 13 points. Ben Wallace showed up at the arena about 1 hour, 15 minutes before tipoff and finished with five points, 12 rebounds and two blocks. "It's the biggest loss of everybody's life because it's the last game," Gordon said. "We had a 19-point lead and they chipped away at it. It's tough to lose like that." Notes:@ Ben Wallace would not say why he was late, telling reporters: "I don't have to explain myself to nobody." Skiles, who was not thrilled about the late arrival, said: "Somebody said the traffic was really bad at that time. I mean it usually is in Chicago. I really haven't given it a lot of thought. That wasn't high on my list of priorities." ... Detroit shot 4-of-18 in the second quarter and 6-of-20 in the fourth. But the Pistons went 13-of-22 in the third. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. Daily news, weather, and more from scnow.com, WBTW News 13, and the Morning News &copy; 2007 Media General, Inc. Subscribe to the Morning News
http://hosted.ap.org/	News from The Associated Press
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/U/US_IRAQ?SITE=SCFLO&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	South Carolina Now (SCNow.com) - APNews | Grand Strand and Pee Dee May 11, 7:06 PM EDT Iraqi Officials Discourage U.S. Pullout House Agrees to Fund Iraq War Through July Bush Calls on Congress to Be Patient With Iraq The Toll: Coalition Casualties Since March 2003 U.S. Allows Mahdi Army a Security Role Iraqis Struggle in Police Training Four Years: AP Journalists Look Back Iraq and Vietnam: Contrasting Protests Land Mines From Iran-Iraq War Sold on Black Market Iraqi Outpost Tests War Strategy Iraq's Toll Felt Across U.S. Soldier Diagnosed Before Attack end soldier diagnosis --> end interactive icon section --> Latest photos from Iraq War Tensions Follow Bush to Commencement Iraqi Officials Discourage U.S. Pullout Car Bombings Kill 23 at Baghdad Bridges Radical Iraqi Cleric Said to Be in Iran White House Takes Hard Line on Spending Executive Summary: DOD Inspector General on Pre-Iraq War Intelligence Activities(2/9/2007) Unclassified National Intelligence Estimate Summary on Iraq (2/2/2007) Inspector General Report on Iraq Reconstruction (1/31/2007) AP-Ipsos Poll: Bush and Congress Iraqi Officials Discourage U.S. Pullout White House Takes Hard Line on Spending Reid Extends Negotiations on Immigration Poll: Congress, Bush Share Low Approval Lobbying Reform Losing Steam in House The 110th Congress' First 100 Hours Sen. Max Baucus: The AP Interview Mark Foley Scandal Timeline Harry Reid Land Deal Congressional Leadership Financial Disclosure Harry Reid's Ties to Abramoff DeLay and Blunt: Following the Money Congress Goes to Bat for Tribes Buy AP Photo Reprints WASHINGTON (AP) -- Worried Congress' support for Iraq is deteriorating rapidly, Baghdad dispatched senior officials to Capitol Hill this week to warn members one-on-one that pulling out U.S. troops would have disastrous consequences. The lobbying push targeted Republicans and Democrats alike, but focused primarily on those considered influential on the war debate. On Thursday, hours before the House voted to limit funds for the war, Iraqi Deputy Prime Minister Barham Saleh met with more than 30 House Republicans and more than a half-dozen senators, including Sens. Harry Reid, D-Nev., John Warner, R-Va., and Hillary Rodham Clinton, D-N.Y. "He understands that American patience is waning," said Sen. Norm Coleman, after eating lunch with Saleh, Iraqi Ambassador Samir Shakir al-Sumaidaie and Sen. Saxby Chambliss. But the lobbying by the Iraqis isn't the only pressure-point being applied in Washington. Clinton said Friday she considered it "promising" that several Republican House members went to the White House and told President Bush they believe the continuing war is adversely affecting the party. She said the GOP lawmakers told Bush pointblank that "he has to change course in Iraq." But she also said she didn't think that Bush was ready to reverse course. "I think we're going to go back and forth on this for a while longer," Clinton said in an interview Friday on MSNBC's "Morning Joe" program with Joe Scarborough. "It is clear that whatever the mission used to be, it is either accomplished or over," she said. "If there are remaining American interests, then let's spell them out." Baghdad's ability to sell members like Coleman, R-Minn., and Chambliss, R-Ga., on the war effort is critical if the Iraqi government wants U.S. troops to stay. Coleman in recent months has become deeply skeptical of the president's decision to send additional troops to Iraq and says patience on the war in general is limited. Coleman, Chambliss and Sen. John Sununu, R-N.H., who met separately with Saleh, will be up for re-election next year - facing voters who have grown tired of a war in its fifth year and that has killed more than 3,380 troops. While Republicans have been reluctant to intervene, many say President Bush has until September to tell if the troop buildup in Iraq is working before they demand another approach. With the clock ticking, Saleh - a Kurdish politician highly regarded by U.S. officials and who speaks impeccable English - said he came to Capitol Hill to convey the "imperative of success" in Iraq. "Iraq is a central battleground in this historic conflict" against terrorism, he said in a brief interview after meeting with Reid, the Senate majority leader. His trip came on the heels of a visit by Mowaffak al-Rubaie, the national security adviser to Iraqi Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki, along with three other senior advisers, according to the Iraqi embassy. The New York Times first reported al-Rubaie's visit on Tuesday. The timing of these meetings is no mistake. This month, Congress is expected to send Bush legislation that funds the war in Iraq but requires the Baghdad government meet certain political and security reforms. In question is what consequences the Iraqis should face if they fail. Democrats want U.S. troops to leave, Republicans say they don't want to force redeployments, but some say they would be open to withholding more than $5 billion in foreign aid. The House voted 221-205 Thursday for a stronger measure that would fund the war only through July, giving Congress the option of cutting off money after that. The bill is unlikely to survive in the Senate, although it indicates the war's unpopularity among members and their frustration with the lack of progress in the Iraqi parliament. The most recent irritant among U.S. lawmakers was a report that Iraqi officials would break for two months this summer. "Our armed forces are up to 150,000 troops; we're over $600 billion appropriated for this, lost 3,300 lives, 25,000 wounded fellow citizens. ... And the Iraqi answer? We're taking a summer off. Goin' fishing," said Rep. Rahm Emanuel, D-Ill. Saleh said he expects the vacation to be shortened by at least a month, although nothing had been decided. He added that Iraqis value being independent and do "not take kindly of (U.S. officials) telling us when to recess." Democrats seemed to consider these meetings with Iraqi officials as beneficial - if only to convey their frustration to Iraqi officials in person. Reid's spokesman Jim Manley said the senator told Saleh that "U.S. patience, blood and treasure were not unlimited and that the Congress would be taking a more decisive role in the coming weeks and months." "Salih understood the point, and said he would deliver the message to the Iraqi cabinet," Manley added. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. Daily news, weather, and more from scnow.com, WBTW News 13, and the Morning News &copy; 2007 Media General, Inc. Subscribe to the Morning News
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/B/BRITAIN_BLAIR_BROWN?SITE=SCFLO&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	South Carolina Now (SCNow.com) - APNews | Grand Strand and Pee Dee May 11, 3:09 PM EDT Brown Vows to Learn From Iraq Mistakes Latest News from Britain Iraqi President: U.S. Troops Should Stay Brown Vows to Learn From Iraq Mistakes No Disciplinary Action for London Police Blair Formally Endorses Brown to Be PM Britain to Hand Over Aboriginal Remains Blair Legacy: Reform, Peace, War Buy AP Photo Reprints LONDON (AP) -- Gordon Brown signaled a shift in policy in Iraq and a new vision for Britain as he launched his campaign Friday to become the country's next prime minister. Appearing before a standing ovation of hand-picked supporters only hours after Prime Minister Tony Blair formally endorsed his candidacy, Brown, who has waited more than a decade for his chance to lead the country, strode to the podium and confidently laid out a platform that promised to be both compassionate and tough. "I will listen, and I will learn. I will strive to meet people's aspirations," Brown said, pledging to win back disenchanted voters. "I want to lead a government humble enough to know its place." Brown signaled that as prime minister, he would abandon Blair's presidential style of leadership by restoring Parliament's authority in decisions such as when to go to war. Government must be accountable, he said. "I accept that mistakes have been made," Brown said, without offering specifics. "We will keep our obligations to the Iraqi people. These are obligations that are part of U.N. resolution, they are in support of a democracy. I do think that over the next few months the emphasis will shift." The question is how much Brown will shift Britain's role in the Iraq war, which has divided the country. He indicated he wants to devote more time and resources toward the creation of jobs and basic services for the Iraqi people. "There are too many people in Iraq who don't have a stake in the economic future of the country, too many people unemployed, too many people who are not seeing services developed ... and therefore too many people who don't feel loyalty to the regime," he said. Brown did not outline specifics on his Iraq policy. He said he will make his first trip to Iraq in the coming weeks to inspect the situation. Blair announced in February that his government - the top U.S. ally in the Iraq war - will reduce its troop level by 1,600 to about 5,500 by spring, but will retain a presence in southern Iraq until at least 2008. A total of 148 British soldiers have died since the 2003 invasion. Brown also promised to be strong on defense and security. "And obviously we've got to do more to win the battle of hearts and minds against al-Qaida terrorism," he said. Brown's speech at a converted Edwardian-era school in central London was the first act in his campaign to become Labour Party chief - and as a result, British leader. It also marked Brown's first effort to emerge from the shadow of the telegenic Blair - a challenge for the wonkish Brown, who must show he can connect with voters. The campaign to revamp the Treasury chief's rumpled image hit an immediate snag when the teleprompters he was using obscured his face for the live television audience. He seemed more relaxed shaking hands of the party faithful in later televised appearances. Brown took the London subway, known as the Tube, to the event, impressing at least one Londoner, 20-year-old student Rohini Simbodyal. "We got on the Tube and people were looking at Gordon Brown," Simbodyal said. "People were amazed, saying, 'It's Gordon.' But everyone was very British, they looked and then looked away. A few people came up and shook his hand and said, 'Good luck.'" "He was just like a normal guy," she said. President Bush also praised Brown's forthrightness, describing him as "easy to talk to." But it remains to be seen how close the two men might become. Brown has been more reserved in his comments about Bush, whose alliance with Blair cost the Labour Party votes. Bush and Blair have had a close relationship, speaking regularly by phone and videoconference and getting together for talks at least twice a year since 2003. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice said Brown was aware of the dangers surrounding failure in Iraq, and she didn't expect U.S.-British relations to change dramatically. "Britain and America will always be friends and I know that we will work very, very well with Gordon Brown when he becomes prime minister," Rice told the British Broadcasting Corp. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. Daily news, weather, and more from scnow.com, WBTW News 13, and the Morning News &copy; 2007 Media General, Inc. Subscribe to the Morning News
http://apdigitalnews.com/privacy.html	AP Digital | Terms of Use
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/S/SOCAL_FIRE?SITE=SCFLO&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	South Carolina Now (SCNow.com) - APNews | Grand Strand and Pee Dee May 11, 4:22 PM EDT S. Calif. Island Fire Turned From Town Fire Threatens Posh, SoCal Resort Island Buy AP Photo Reprints Photos: Wildfires Across the U.S. Photos: Wildfire Burns in California Charges Against Crew Boss Calif. Island Survives Wildfire Scare 2 Kids Charged in Ga. Wildfires Ga. Wildfire Called 'A Long-Term Battle' AVALON, Calif. (AP) -- Firefighters turned back flames that threatened Santa Catalina Island's main city and some residents planned to return to their homes Friday after thousands were forced to evacuate a day earlier. The wildfire was 4,000 acres, or more than 6 square miles, and was only 10 percent contained early Friday. But worries were eased by the day's favorable weather forecast and the arrival of dozens of fire trucks and air tankers on the narrow, mountainous island 30 miles off Los Angeles. "Everyone is working very hard to make sure that the people are safe and the animals are safe," Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger said Friday. Most of the 76-square-mile island is owned by a land conservancy, home to wildlife including the Catalina Island fox, North American bison and bald eagle. Flames that had menaced the main city of Avalon the night before were no longer visible from there on Friday. But a layer of ash and a puff of smoke that rose from a hillside overlooking the crescent harbor were reminders of a harrowing night. "The risk has been reduced significantly," Fire Chief Steven Hoefs said. "Most of the structures have been protected." The blaze broke out Thursday afternoon in the island's rugged interior, feeding on dry brush and fanned by a steady wind into the night. One home and a few small structures in the canyons outside the city burned. About 3,800 residents and tourists fled, Schwarzenegger said. As people lined up at the harbor Thursday night to board ferries to the mainland, many covered their faces with towels and bandanas to ward off ashes. Resident Kathy Troeger fled with her three children and a friend's daughter, while her husband, a fire captain, stayed behind to fight the blaze. "It was like a nightmare when we left," she said after arriving at the mainland port of Long Beach. "You couldn't breathe, and ash was falling like snow." Anita Bussing, a therapist who has a second home on the island, described a sky "completely gray with orange streaks." The helicopters were flying all over the place," she said. "People were freaking out, children were crying." Island hotel worker Susana Garcia, 22, waited long into the night at the dock looking for her father. She had gone to the mainland to do errands before the fire started and was unable to reach her father, who had stayed behind. "I've been asking everybody if they've seen him, but I haven't found him yet," Garcia said. Dozens of fire engines arrived through the night from as far away as Fresno, carried by giant military hovercraft from the Marine Corps' Camp Pendleton. One firefighter was overcome by inhalation and was in stable condition. Wind that reached 20 mph Thursday calmed and were expected to blow the fire westward, away from Avalon and toward the island's sparsely populated center. Despite being well offshore, Catalina has been left parched by the lack of rainfall that has made the rest of Southern California particularly susceptible to wildfires like the one in Los Angeles' Griffith Park this week. Television actor Steven W. Bailey, who lives near the park, had gone to Catalina with his wife to escape the smoke and heat on Thursday. As they approached the island, he spotted the smoke of the island blaze, and when they arrived, they weren't allowed to check into their hotel. "It just descended into more and more fire, more and more smoke, more and more ash," Bailey told KABC-TV. Firefighters were still working Friday to surround what remained of the Griffith Park fire, which briefly chased people from homes and threatened the park's landmark observatory and zoo. Elsewhere around the country, firefighters battled the second Georgia wildfire to burn more than 100,000 acres as gusty wind spread the fast-moving blaze further into northern Florida and toward the tiny town of Fargo west of the Okefenokee Swamp. Officials said the wildfire, ignited Saturday by lightning, had grown so rapidly that after six days it already rivaled a fire that has scorched 116,480 acres, or 182 square miles, of southeastern Georgia forest and swampland since April 16 - the state's largest wildfire on record. About 570 homes in northern Columbia County, Fla., were evacuated overnight, and heavy smoke blanketed the area. A haze was seen in Miami, more than 300 miles away. To the north, a wildfire grew to nearly 86 square miles in northeastern Minnesota and across the border into Canada, cutting power and phone lines to many resorts and lake homes. The fire, driven by high wind Thursday and fed by drought-parched forest, has already destroyed 45 structures and was threatening about 200 more. The chance of desperately needed rainfall was still days away. Associated Press writers Daisy Nguyen and Christina Almeida in Los Angeles, and Gillian Flaccus in Long Beach contributed to this report. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. Daily news, weather, and more from scnow.com, WBTW News 13, and the Morning News &copy; 2007 Media General, Inc. Subscribe to the Morning News
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/E/ECONOMY?SITE=SCFLO&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	South Carolina Now (SCNow.com) - APNews | Grand Strand and Pee Dee May 11, 6:35 PM EDT Gas Prices a Drain on Consumer Dollars Gas Prices a Drain on Consumer Dollars Stocks Rise on Inflation, Sales Data CBOT Among Big Movers on Wall Street Retail Sales Down 0.2 Percent in April Panel Votes to Boost to Fuel Economy EU Expects Faster Economic Growth Investors Await Fed's Decision on Rates Summary Box: Jobless Rate Up Slightly Service Sector Expands at Faster Rate Bernanke Raps Economic Isolationism Buy AP Photo Reprints WASHINGTON (AP) -- Consumers, battered by surging gasoline prices, cut back spending for clothes, cars and other items in April, raising worries about the already weak economy. Retail sales fell 0.2 percent in April, the first decline in seven months, the Commerce Department reported Friday. Meanwhile, the Labor Department said that wholesale prices surged by 0.7 percent, led by a third consecutive big rise in gasoline prices. The weak retail spending and the big rise in gasoline prices were seen as delivering a double whammy to the economy. The worry is that if gasoline prices spike further and the troubles in housing deepen, then consumers could significantly trim spending and the country could move toward a recession. In Washington, a city with some of the longest commuting times in the country, consumers were definitely feeling the pinch of the higher gasoline prices. "It's highway robbery," said Andi Powell, 33. She said she and her boyfriend are spending about $90 per week in gas for their commute to Washington from Baltimore. "I just started to do a lot more home entertaining, just trying to find ways to make up the difference" in the higher gas costs. Zenobia Jackson, 32, of College Park, Md., said she is spending $60 to $80 per week for gas to drive to her computer job in Virginia. "There's not much I can do," she said. Growth in the overall economy slowed to a lackluster 1.3 percent rate in the first three months of this year, the slowest pace in four years. Analysts were looking for that figure to be revised even lower based on a string of weaker-than-expected economic reports, raising the odds that some unexpected jolt could turn weak growth into an outright downturn. "The higher gasoline prices combined with a weakening housing market and a softer job market are weighing on consumers," said Mark Zandi, chief economist at Moody's Economy.com. Former Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan, who sent financial markets into a tailspin back in February with his worries about a recession, used the "R" word again on Friday although he sought to put a more positive spin on his views, emphasizing the likelihood that a downturn can be avoided. "The odds are 2-to-1 that we won't have a recession," Greenspan said in a speech delivered by satellite to a business group in Singapore, according to a participant. Wall Street was not jolted by Greenspan's latest comments as investors took comfort from the price report because it showed little price pressure outside the areas of energy and food. The Dow Jones industrial average soared 111.09 points on Friday, its biggest point rise so far this month, to end the week at 13,326.22. The rebound gained back most of the nearly 150 points the Dow had lost on Thursday. The so-called core rate of inflation, which excludes food and energy, was unchanged in April, better than the 0.2 percent rise analysts had expected. The Federal Reserve this week kept interest rates where they have been since last June, with officials saying they remained more worried about the threats from inflation than the weakening economy. Some analysts said the Fed could be making a mistake by keeping rates too high for too long especially if consumer spending, which accounts for two-thirds of total economic activity, weakens further. "Consumers are being pressured by surging energy and food costs and they don't have that much left over to spend on lots of other things," said Joel Naroff, chief economist at Naroff Economic Advisors. The weak report on retail sales from the government came a day after a survey of the nation's biggest retailers, who reported disappointing sales in April. Analysts said some of the problems reflected the fact that Easter came early this year, pulling sales into March that would normally have occurred in April. But they still worried about the widespread nature of April's sales weakness. There were declines in sales at auto dealerships, hardware stores, specialty clothing stores and department stores. The 0.2 percent drop would have been an even larger 0.4 percent fall if it had not been for a 1.7 percent jump in sales at gasoline stations, reflecting the higher pump prices. Analysts said motorists are likely to see gas prices rise even higher in May, reflecting a loss of refinery capacity this spring because of unexpected shutdowns. Gasoline surged to a record nationwide average of $3.07 per gallon, nearly 20 cents higher than two weeks earlier, according to the latest Lundberg Survey. That surpassed the record of $3.03 per gallon set last August. The 0.7 percent increase in wholesale prices last month followed an even larger 1 percent jump in March with gasoline prices rising by more than 8 percent in each month. Wholesale food costs were up 0.4 percent in April, a significant slowing after four straight months of 1 percent-plus readings. Outside of food and energy, the unchanged performance of core inflation reflected a decline of 1 percent for new cars and a 0.5 percent drop in the category that includes sport utility vehicles. Associated Press writer Ann Sanner contributed to this report. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. Daily news, weather, and more from scnow.com, WBTW News 13, and the Morning News &copy; 2007 Media General, Inc. Subscribe to the Morning News
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/S/SUSPICIOUS_DEVICES?SITE=SCFLO&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	South Carolina Now (SCNow.com) - APNews | Grand Strand and Pee Dee May 11, 4:28 PM EDT Men Apologize for Boston Cartoon Stunt Buy AP Photo Reprints When Guerrilla Marketing Goes Awry BOSTON (AP) -- Prosecutors said they would not pursue charges against two men who planted electronic devices around the city as part of a botched advertising campaign after the pair apologized Friday for causing a bomb scare. Peter Berdovsky, 27, and Sean Stevens, 28, also performed community service at a rehabilitation center in a deal with prosecutors. In contrast to their first court appearance in January, when they mugged for the camera and waved to friends in the courtroom, the men offered contrite apologies and said they never expected the stunt to cause any turmoil. "I deeply regret that this incident caused such anguish and disruption to so many people," Berdovsky told the Charlestown District Court. Stevens said he saw the devices simply as "harmless entertainment." "I had no intention of upsetting or alarming anyone," he said. The two were accused of planting about three dozen battery-powered devices in Boston and Cambridge on Jan. 31. The devices, a promotion for Cartoon Network, had lights that created images of a cartoon character making an obscene gesture. Fears of terrorism arose when the devices were discovered in a subway station and on a bridge, among other locations. Bomb squads were deployed, and highways, bridges and some transit stations were temporarily closed. Similar signs were placed in nine other cities around the United States, but only in Boston did they elicit such a response. Berdovsky and Stevens were charged with placing a hoax device and disorderly conduct. Attorney General Martha Coakley said it would have been difficult to prove to a jury that the men intended to create panic, and that she did not believe they realized the problems the ads would cause. "We believe this was an appropriate and fair resolution," Coakley said. Berdovsky said he was relieved the case was resolved without a trial. "I am looking forward to what the future has to bring. I'm just going to be working really hard and working on my art and working to build a really peaceful community for all of us to live in," Berdovsky told The Associated Press by telephone after the hearing. Berdovsky performed 80 hours of service and Stevens completed 60 hours at the Spaulding Rehabilitation Center in Boston. The men designed a cartoon mural that will be painted in a waiting area for children undergoing physical therapy, said Oz Mondejar, Spaulding's vice president of human resources. They also helped patients use computers, cleaned the hospital's sailing docks and helped produce a DVD featuring patients talking about their rehabilitation successes. Turner Broadcasting and the advertising agency that carried out the campaign, Interference Inc., agreed to pay a $2 million settlement to cover costs and restitution for the law enforcement response. The head of the Cartoon Network resigned nine days after the stunt. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. Daily news, weather, and more from scnow.com, WBTW News 13, and the Morning News &copy; 2007 Media General, Inc. Subscribe to the Morning News
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/I/INTERNET_NAMES?SITE=SCFLO&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	South Carolina Now (SCNow.com) - APNews | Grand Strand and Pee Dee May 11, 3:44 PM EDT New Domain Names Could Come in Mid-2008 Buy AP Photo Reprints New Domain Names Could Come in Mid-2008 Survey Defines Split in Technology Use U.S. Reaffirms Ban on Online Gambling Report: Extremists Value Web As Tool YouTube Co-Founders Among Webby Winners NEW YORK (AP) -- New Internet addresses for general use could start appearing in the summer of 2008 under a timeline the Internet's key oversight agency announced Thursday. The Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers invited public comment on procedures for creating new names, the first expansion for general use since 2000. Names added since then have been limited to specific regions or industries. "This is all about choice," ICANN Chief Executive Paul Twomey said in a statement. "We want the diversity of the world's people, geography and business to be able to be represented in the domain name system." Domain names are key for helping computers find Web sites and route e-mail. There are currently about 250 domain name suffixes, most of them for specific countries such as ".fr" for France. General-use names include ".com" and ".net." In 2000, two years after its designation by the U.S. government as the authority for overseeing Internet naming policies, ICANN approved seven new names, but only ".info" and ".biz" were truly for general use. ICANN solicited additional applications in 2004 and has approved six regional or industry-specific names, such as ".travel" and ".asia," while rejecting ".xxx" for the adult entertainment industry. Also added were .jobs, .mobi, .cat, and .tel. Some ICANN critics have complained that the agency has been slow to approve new names and that the procedures have sometimes been arbitrary. Businesses and trademark owners, meanwhile, worry that more names will lead to more cybersquatting, the practice of grabbing names before companies can in hopes of selling them at a premium. ICANN did not specify how individuals and groups would be able to seek new names, but the group indicated that the procedures would be streamlined to permit "a much wider variety of them to be added in a timely, predictable and efficient manner." An ICANN committee, the Generic Names Supporting Organization, still is reviewing the procedures. Once it sends a recommendation to the ICANN board, procedures could be adopted by year's end and applications for new names could be accepted early next year. Twomey said new names could be reviewed and added into the system in the June-August 2008 timeframe. The new addresses are likely to be in English. ICANN could wrap up the technical work on non-Latin scripts by year's end, but it still must resolve policy questions such as who should decide what countries get what suffixes and how to make sure a domain in one language isn't inadvertently offensive in another. ICANN information on new names: &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. Daily news, weather, and more from scnow.com, WBTW News 13, and the Morning News &copy; 2007 Media General, Inc. Subscribe to the Morning News
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/F/FORT_DIX_PLOT?SITE=SCFLO&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	South Carolina Now (SCNow.com) - APNews | Grand Strand and Pee Dee May 11, 4:21 PM EDT Fort Dix Suspects All Are Denied Bail Buy AP Photo Reprints Criminal complaint against Eljvir Duka in Fort Dix plot case Hearing Transcript: Waleed Mohammed bin Attash Hearing Transcript: Khalid Sheikh Mohammed Hearing Transcript Abu Faraj al-Libi Hearing Transcript: Ramzi Binalshibh Declassified Report: Iraq 'Cause Celebre' for Extremists U.S. Pushing Europe for Flight Data Deal Bush's Privacy Board Not Doing Its Job? British Police Make 4 Terror Arrests Doctor in Terror Trial Defends Himself Dix Plot Shows Homegrown Radical Threat CAMDEN, N.J. (AP) -- Six Muslim men suspected of plotting to massacre U.S. soldiers at Fort Dix were ordered held without bail Friday. Prosecutors argued that the men, all born outside the United States, pose a flight risk. They are being held at a federal detention center in Philadelphia. The men were arrested Monday during what the FBI said was an attempt to buy AK-47 machine guns, M-16s and other weapons. They targeted Fort Dix, a post 25 miles east of Philadelphia that is used primarily to train reservists, partly because one of them had delivered pizzas there and was familiar with the base, according to court filings. Their objective was to kill "as many American soldiers as possible," the documents said. The men have lived in and around Philadelphia for years, worshipped at moderate mosques and worked blue-collar jobs installing roofs, driving a cab, delivering pizzas and baking bread. Four are ethnic Albanians from the former Yugoslavia, one is from Jordan and one is from Turkey. As they were led into the courtroom, each of the suspects smiled to relatives and friends, many of whom wept and blew kisses to them. Only one of the men, Mohamad Ibrahim Shnewer, 22, asked to be released on bail, and friends and relatives offered to post properties they owned as collateral. Assistant U.S. Attorney Stephen Stigall argued against letting Shnewer be released to the custody of his parents while awaiting trial. He said many of the illegal actions that the government alleges Shnewer committed happened or were planned at his parents' house. Defense lawyers for some of the men said they are considering attacking the prosecution's reliance on two paid informants who infiltrated the group more than a year ago and recorded conversations with the defendants. Authorities said they first learned about the men in January 2006 after a tip from a clerk at a Mount Laurel electronics store. Circuit City spokeswoman Jackie Foreman said Friday that credit for the tip is shared by two employees. She declined to name them but said the company has "communicated its appreciation." She declined to give details. The pair called police because a home video the men wanted transferred to a DVD looked like it might have terrorist links, U.S. Attorney Christopher J. Christie said. Earlier this year, authorities said, the men took a training trip to the Pocono Mountains in Pennsylvania, where they fired weapons and played paintball to prepare for an attack. Five of the men - Shnewer; Serdar Tatar, 23; Dritan "Anthony" or "Tony" Duka, 28; Shain Duka, 26; and Eljvir "Elvis" Duka, 23 - are charged with conspiring to kill uniformed military personnel, an offense punishable by life in prison. Agron Abdullahu, 24, is charged with helping illegal immigrants obtain weapons. He could face 10 years in prison if convicted. Abdullahu, who faces the least serious charges of the six, will have another bail hearing next Thursday. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. Daily news, weather, and more from scnow.com, WBTW News 13, and the Morning News &copy; 2007 Media General, Inc. Subscribe to the Morning News
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/O/ODD_BONUS_NOSE?SITE=CAVIC&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	Prep Track & Field Place a Classified Ad Request a Temporary Stop May 11, 6:11 PM EDT Wis. farmer finds new calf has two noses Buy AP Photo Reprints MERRILL, Wis. (AP) -- Mark Krombholz had to look twice at his new calf, Lucy - one time for each nose. "I didn't notice anything too different about her until I got her in the barn," Krombholz said, "and all of a sudden I went to feed her a bottle of milk, and I thought maybe she'd been kicked in the nose and there were two noses there." The second, smaller nose sits on top of the first. "It's a functioning nose because the middle of her second nose, the flap would go in and out when she drank out of the bottle like that," Krombholz said. "It was kind of funny." Breeder Scott Grund said Lucy's noses seem to be working fine. "It looked like she was comfortable laying there in her bedding and breathing and spunky just like you want to see," Grund said. "It's just that she's got two noses." That kind of rare deformity is usually not the result of genetics, he said. But breeders do track such mutations. "We'll fill out a form, send that on to the company in Shawano and they will keep record of it," Grund said. "If by chance this would occur more than a few times, they would start looking at maybe the sire that we're using." Krombholz said Lucy, who was born May 4, will be a pet and bred if she's able. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. Copyright &#169; 2007 Daily Press, a
http://hosted.ap.org/	News from The Associated Press
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/F/FILM_MICHAEL_MOORE?SITE=CAVIC&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	Prep Track & Field Place a Classified Ad Request a Temporary Stop May 11, 7:09 PM EDT Moore blasts Bush over film-trip probe Buy AP Photo Reprints Moore blasts Bush over film-trip probe Cuba: Michael Moore victim of censorship Calif. judge hails Mel Gibson's progress Drew Barrymore becomes WFP ambassador Carlyle found it painful to play zombie Letter from Treasury Dept. to Moore LOS ANGELES (AP) -- Filmmaker Michael Moore has asked the Bush administration to call off an investigation of his trip to Cuba to get treatment for ailing Sept. 11 rescue workers for a segment in his upcoming health-care expose, "Sicko." Moore, who made the hit documentary "Fahrenheit 9/11" assailing President Bush's handling of Sept. 11, said in a letter to U.S. Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson on Friday that the White House may have opened the investigation for political reasons. "For five and a half years, the Bush administration has ignored and neglected the heroes of the 9/11 community," Moore said in the letter, which he posted on the liberal Web site Daily Kos. "These heroic first responders have been left to fend for themselves, without coverage and without care. "I understand why the Bush administration is coming after me - I have tried to help the very people they refuse to help, but until George W. Bush outlaws helping your fellow man, I have broken no laws and I have nothing to hide." Harvey Weinstein, whose Weinstein Co. is releasing "Sicko," told The Associated Press the movie is a "healing film" that could bring opponents together over the ills of America's health-care system. "This time, we didn't want the fight, because the movie unites both sides," Weinstein said. "We've shown the movie to Republicans. Both sides of the bench love the film. The pharmaceutical industry won't like the movie. HMOs will try to run us out of town, but that's not relevant to the situation. "The whole campaign this time was not to be incendiary. It was, can Michael Moore bring both sides together?" The health-care industry Moore skewers in "Sicko" was a major contributor to Bush's 2004 re-election campaign and to Republican candidates over the last four years, Moore wrote. "I can understand why that industry's main recipient of its contributions - President Bush - would want to harass, intimidate and potentially prevent this film from having its widest possible audience," Moore wrote. Treasury officials in Washington said Friday they would have no comment on the contents of Moore's letter, citing a policy against discussing specific investigations being conducted by Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control, the agency that enforces the trade embargo against Cuba. "Generally speaking, as administrators and enforcers of U.S. sanctions, OFAC is required to investigate potential violations of these programs," Treasury spokeswoman AnnMarie Hauser said. "In doing so, OFAC issues hundreds of letters each year asking for additional information when possible sanctions violations have occurred." OFAC notified Moore in a letter dated May 2 that it was conducting a civil investigation for possible violations of the U.S. trade embargo restricting travel to Cuba. Moore questioned the timing of the investigation, noting that "Sicko" premieres May 19 at the Cannes Film Festival and debuts in U.S. theaters June 29. The Bush administration knew of his plans to travel to Cuba since last October, said Moore, who went there in March with about 10 ailing workers involved in the rescue effort at the World Trade Center ruins. Weinstein said the investigation would only help publicize the film. "The timing is amazing. You would think that we originated this. It reads like a fiction best-seller," Weinstein said. The Weinstein Co. said it has hired David Boies, the chief attorney in Al Gore's recount battle against Bush in the 2000 presidential election, to help on the "Sicko" case. Cuba on Friday characterized Moore as a victim of censorship and the U.S. trade embargo. The Communist Party daily Granma called the 45-year-old U.S. travel and trade sanctions "a criminal action that has cost lives and grave consequences for the inhabitants of the island," as well as Americans. "Any resemblance to McCarthyism is no coincidence," the newspaper opined, referring to the political witch hunt that U.S. Sen. Joseph McCarthy carried out against suspected American communists in the 1950s. The U.S. government's targeting of Moore "confirms the imperial philosophy of censorship" by American officials, it added. U.S. State Department officials on Friday declined to comment on Granma's criticisms of the American government and referred calls to the Treasury Department. OFAC's letter to Moore noted that he had applied in October 2006 for permission as a full-time journalist to travel to Cuba, but that the agency had not made any determination on his request. The agency gave Moore 20 business days to provide details on his Cuba trip and the names of those who accompanied him. Moore won an Academy Award for best documentary with his 2002 gun-control film "Bowling for Columbine" and scolded Bush in his Oscar acceptance speech as the war in Iraq was just getting under way. The investigation has given master promoter Moore another jolt of publicity just before the release of one of his films. "Fahrenheit 9/11" premiered at Cannes in 2004 amid a public quarrel between Moore and the Walt Disney Co., which refused to let subsidiary Miramax release the film because of its political content. Miramax bosses Harvey and Bob Weinstein ended up releasing the film on their own and later left to form the Weinstein Co., distributor of "Sicko." "This is `Fahrenheit' all over again. `Let's pressure somebody.' Last time it was Disney, this time it's direct," Harvey Weinstein said. "Fahrenheit 9/11" won the top prize at Cannes and went on to become the top-grossing documentary ever with $119 million. Associated Press Writers Andrea Rodriguez in Havana and Martin Crutsinger in Washington contributed to this report. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. Copyright &#169; 2007 Daily Press, a
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/F/FALLEN_OBJECT?SITE=CAVIC&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	Prep Track & Field Place a Classified Ad Request a Temporary Stop May 11, 6:25 PM EDT Mysterious object probably space junk By JANET FRANKSTON LORIN Buy AP Photo Reprints NEWARK, N.J. (AP) -- A mysterious metallic object that crashed through the roof of a New Jersey home earlier this year was not a meteorite after all, but probably a piece of space junk, scientists said Friday. The silvery object was made of a stainless-steel alloy that does not occur in nature and is most likely "orbital debris" - part of a satellite, rocket or some other spacecraft, said Rutgers University geologist Jeremy Delaney. "There's huge amounts of material that have been left by the various space programs of the world," he said. Srinivasan Nageswaran, whose family discovered the object after it crashed through the roof and dented the tile bathroom floor at his home in Freehold Township in January, was disappointed by the news. "That's the nature of science," said the 46-year-old information technology consultant "If the conclusion from the test says it's not a meteorite, then it's not a meteorite. We have to move forward." The object is slightly bigger than a golf ball and about as heavy as a can of soup. Delaney examined it at the police station and initially pronounced it an iron meteorite based on its shape and density. So did other Rutgers geologists and an independent metals expert. But in April, it was taken to the American Museum of Natural History in New York, where a new variable-pressure scanning electron microscope was used to establish its composition. "I was wrong," Delaney said. "Sneaky little devil." &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. Copyright &#169; 2007 Daily Press, a
http://apdigitalnews.com/privacy.html	AP Digital | Terms of Use
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/G/GIULIANI_ABORTION?SITE=CAVIC&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	Prep Track & Field Place a Classified Ad Request a Temporary Stop May 11, 6:22 PM EDT Giuliani defends stance on abortion Buy AP Photo Reprints See how your responses stack up against the majority of Americans on abortion. Iraq? Global Warming? Gay Marriage? See Where the Candidates Stand Giuliani defends stance on abortion Giuliani backs Army buildup nearing 600K Giuliani says Saddam paying for offenses Rudy Giuliani assails Venezuela's Chavez Giuliani counts backers who aren't fans Latest Photos of Rudy Giuliani Video: Excerpts from the film 'Giuliani Time' HOUSTON (AP) -- Republican presidential candidate Rudy Giuliani forcefully reaffirmed his support for abortion rights on Friday and argued that his divergence from conservatives on the issue should not disqualify him from being the eventual GOP nominee. "This is a matter of deep and profound judgment," he said in a speech at Houston Baptist University. "It's a matter of morals. It's a matter of your interpretation of how laws should operate, your interpretation of how respect for the rights of others should operate. But in a country like ours ... I believe you have to respect their viewpoint and give them a level of choice. I would grant women the right to make that choice." The former New York City mayor has struggled in the last week to explain his personal opposition to abortion with his long public record of favoring a woman's right to choose. He has defended his positions - and some say contradictory comments - on late-term abortion, public funding for abortions and the 1973 Supreme Court ruling that legalized abortion. But Giuliani left few questions about his position Friday, telling about 500 students and faculty at the small conservative school that - despite his belief that abortion was "morally wrong" - he believes the decision should ultimately be left to individuals and their decisions should be respected. Opposition to abortion has been a litmus test for conservatives within the Republican Party, who hold considerable sway in the primaries. Giuliani has drawn criticism from some in the GOP for his abortion rights support. One of his rivals, former Massachusetts Gov. Mitt Romney, has switched from supporting abortion rights to opposing the procedure - a shift that also has drawn complaints. Another rival, Sam Brownback, said Friday that an abortion rights Republican would have trouble winning the nomination. His comments echoed those of another candidate, Sen. John McCain of Arizona. "It is a pro-life party, with a pro-choice wing," said the Kansas senator, who spoke during a taping of Iowa Public Television's "Iowa Press" program. "I think he has great trouble winning off of that position." Brownback also criticized Romney's switch. "I do think what will be a deal-breaker is if you flip on core issues like life, taxes, second amendment rights," he said. Giuliani, acknowledging that his position on abortion differed from that of most of his audience, urged them to consider his views on other issues as well before deciding whether to support his candidacy. "You have a right to evaluate this in figuring out if you can support me, and at what level you can support me," Giuliani said. "Everybody's got to make a choice. How important are the differences and then how important are the other issues that are involved in this election?" Giuliani emphasized his conservative credentials on tax cuts, crime and the war in Iraq. He said his eight years as mayor of New York showed he could apply conservative social and economic principles even in the face of substantial opposition. HBU President Robert Sloan said the Giuliani campaign called the university on Wednesday and asked if the candidate could speak there this week. Sloan said that, although campaign officials would not discuss why they had chosen HBU, he believed it was because Giuliani "wanted to forthrightly speak on social issues in an audience where religious matters and moral issues truly matter." Several students praised Giuliani's speech, but said it was unlikely to make them support his candidacy. "Overall, I thought it was a great speech," said Erik Mignault, a 25-year-old political science major at HBU. "I agree that we're not going to agree 100 percent with all candidates. I think it was a good political stance to take. He's sitting right in the middle." But Mignault and several other students said they were anti-abortion and likely to support a more conservative GOP candidate. Giuliani's appearance was greeted warmly, and he appeared playful at times, hoisting a child with an "I Love New York" T-shirt and laughing at boos when he spoke of his love for the New York Yankees, the team that this week acquired Houston Astros star pitcher Roger Clemens. But Giuliani told the audience that they should support a candidate who could protect America from terrorism and from Democratic assaults on the economy. He acknowledged that abortion was the issue that most divided them. "I have profound respect for your views," he said. "I have profound respect for your education, and I have profound respect for your religion." But, he said, it is uniquely American to disagree on some political issues while agreeing on many others. "We understand how to respect each other's differences," he said. Associated Press Writer Mike Glover in Johnston, Iowa, contributed to this report. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. Copyright &#169; 2007 Daily Press, a
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/I/IRAQ?SITE=CAVIC&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	Prep Track & Field Place a Classified Ad Request a Temporary Stop May 11, 6:20 PM EDT Car bombings kill 23 at Baghdad bridges The Toll: Coalition Casualties Since March 2003 U.S. Allows Mahdi Army a Security Role Iraqis Struggle in Police Training Four Years: AP Journalists Look Back Iraq and Vietnam: Contrasting Protests Land Mines From Iran-Iraq War Sold on Black Market Iraqi Outpost Tests War Strategy Iraq's Toll Felt Across U.S. Soldier Diagnosed Before Attack end soldier diagnosis --> end interactive icon section --> Latest photos from Iraq War tensions follow Bush to commencement Iraqi officials discourage U.S. pullout Car bombings kill 23 at Baghdad bridges Radical Iraqi cleric said to be in Iran White House takes hard line on spending Executive Summary: DOD Inspector General on Pre-Iraq War Intelligence Activities(2/9/2007) Unclassified National Intelligence Estimate Summary on Iraq (2/2/2007) Inspector General Report on Iraq Reconstruction (1/31/2007) Buy AP Photo Reprints BAGHDAD (AP) -- Twin suicide car bombers struck police checkpoints at bridges in a predominantly Shiite area of Baghdad on Friday, killing at least 23 people just hours after a series of U.S. raids on car bomb networks around the capital killed four suspected insurgents. The blasts underscored the difficulty U.S.-led forces were having in destroying the presumably Sunni insurgent cells that have stepped up car bombings in the capital since the U.S. began its security crackdown 12 weeks ago. "They have actually pushed back," U.S. spokesman Lt. Col. Christopher Garver said, referring to the insurgents. "We've been saying this all along, the enemy is determined." In a sign of that determination, the top U.S. commander in northern Iraq said he doesn't have enough troops to crush al-Qaida-led insurgents in Diyala, a province northeast of Baghdad and scene of recent sharp fighting. Maj. Gen. Benjamin R. Mixon had already received extra troops for Diyala and has increased attacks on militants. But he told Pentagon reporters in a video conference that he has asked Lt. Gen. Raymond Odierno, the No. 2 commander in Iraq, for more. "I laid out a plan for Gen. Odierno on the numbers of forces that I would need," Mixon said. "We have made progress ... we have taken terrain back from the enemy. Gen. Odierno intends to give me additional forces as they become available." Also Friday, the military announced that two U.S. soldiers were killed in separate bombings the day before. One soldier died in Diyala and the other in Baghdad, the military said. In all, at least 52 Iraqis were killed or found dead Friday in politically related violence. The suicide car bombers struck about 6 p.m. The driver of a sedan waiting in a line of cars at a police checkpoint near the old Diyala Bridge blew up his vehicle, partially collapsing the span, police said. About two minutes later the driver of a large fuel truck barreled toward a second checkpoint at the nearby new Diyala Bridge and set off his explosives, police said. The bridge was also damaged, and firefighters struggled to extinguish burning police and civilian cars that had been driving across during the attack. The blasts sent smoke billowing over the Shiite Zafaraniyah area of southeastern Baghdad. "Suddenly I heard a big explosion, and a huge fire rose from the checkpoint," said Abdullah Khalaf, who was selling sheep by the side of the road when the fuel truck raced past. He ran with his son to the checkpoint and saw the truck and three cars on fire, he said. "I saw one wounded woman asking for help while she was trapped inside a damaged car and three wounded policemen on the ground," he said. "There were pools of blood and pieces of flesh." The bombings at the bridges, which cross the Diyala River, a Tigris tributary, killed 23 people, including 11 police officers, and wounded 57 others, 26 of them police, police said. Baghdad's bridges repeatedly have been targeted by bombers. The most serious had been the April 12 truck bombing that collapsed the steel-girder Sarafiyah bridge, plunging cars into the water and killing 11 people. Two days later, a suicide car bombing killed 10 people at the Jadriyah bridge. Officials say al-Qaida-linked Sunni insurgents are using the bombings to try to provoke retaliatory violence from mainly Shiite militias that had agreed to lay low to avoid confrontations with Americans during the security crackdown. The blasts Friday came despite a series of measures aimed at reducing violence in the capital. U.S. and Iraqi forces have increased checkpoints and, in a bid to prevent bridge attacks, banned trucks capable of carrying more than one ton from crossing without strict searches. They also have long imposed a four-hour weekly driving ban during Friday prayers in Baghdad, but that ban ended on schedule three hours before the attacks. U.S. forces have also tried to break up the insurgent cells behind the bombings. "We have been focusing very heavily on the car bomb factories," Garver said. "We've been targeting the networks and the people that move the bombs and make the bombs as well." In one raid early Friday, troops came under fire as they approached a building near Taji, an air base 12 miles north of Baghdad, suspected of housing a cell responsible for car bomb attacks on civilians and security forces, the military said. The troops returned fire, killing four armed men, including one suspected of being a cell leader with ties to al-Qaida in Iraq's chiefs, the military said. Forces also carried out a series of raids in Baghdad and the northern city of Mosul on Thursday and Friday, detaining nine people suspected of producing bombs and smuggling foreign fighters into the country to carry out attacks against U.S. troops, the military said. In Washington, David Satterfield, Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice's top adviser for Iraq, said the United States knows for certain that radical Shiite cleric Muqtada al-Sadr is living next door in Iran. "We know he's out of the country, we don't (merely) think" so, Satterfield told The Associated Press, disputing aides to the anti-American religious and political leader. "He's in Iran, which is where he has been since mid-January." &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. Copyright &#169; 2007 Daily Press, a
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/F/FBN_RICKY_WILLIAMS_SUSPENSION?SITE=CAVIC&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	Prep Track & Field Place a Classified Ad Request a Temporary Stop May 11, 6:10 PM EDT Ricky Williams fails marijuana test Running back Ricky Williams has reportedly failed another drug test. Wayne Roustan reports. Text of 'Pacman' Jones' appeal to the NFL Super Bowl Top Play Super Bowl XLI Wrapup Super Bowl XLI Analysis Sights and Sounds of Miami Making of the Super Bowl Trophy Return of the New Orleans Superdome Jones caught speeding days before appeal Reckless driving gets Bryant probation Faneca will leave Steelers after season Vick dodges questions on dog-fighting Goodell set to meet with Tank Johnson Buy AP Photo Reprints MIAMI (AP) -- Former NFL rushing champion Ricky Williams tested positive again for marijuana last month, which will delay his return to the league until at least September, a person familiar with the case said Friday. Williams sought to end a one-year drug suspension last month when he asked to rejoin the Miami Dolphins. Following the positive drug test, clinicians in the NFL's substance abuse program advised commissioner Roger Goodell to delay reinstatement, the person close to the case said. The person spoke on condition of anonymity because of the confidential nature of the testing program. The Dolphins and the NFL declined comment. Williams, who turns 30 on May 21, has played only 12 games since 2003. Before his latest setback, new Miami coach Cam Cameron repeatedly declined to say whether he would welcome Williams back. Williams' latest positive test first was reported by ESPN.com. His agent, Leigh Steinberg, did not immediately return phone calls seeking comment. The NFL suspended Williams in April 2006 after he violated the league's drug policy for the fourth time. That failed test apparently involved a substance other than marijuana and may have been related to his interest in holistic medicine. Williams' previous positive drug tests were for marijuana, which he acknowledged using. Last year Williams played in the Canadian Football League, then taught yoga in California. Steinberg recently quoted Williams as saying his interest in Eastern philosophy had overcome his desire for mind-altering substances. Williams still owes the Dolphins $8.6 million for breaching his contract when he sat out the 2004 season, but they've given no signal they want him back. General manager Randy Mueller traded Williams when both were with the New Orleans Saints in 2002. Two-year starter Ronnie Brown is expected to return as Miami's starter at running back, and the team acquired running back Lorenzo Booker of Florida State in the third round of the draft last month. St. Louis Rams coach Scott Linehan, the offensive coordinator for the Dolphins when Williams last played in 2005, recently said he would consider acquiring Williams as a backup. Williams won the 1998 Heisman Trophy at Texas and the 2002 NFL rushing title with the Dolphins. Last season with the Toronto Argonauts of the CFL, he rushed for 526 yards in 109 carries but missed two months with a broken arm. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. Copyright &#169; 2007 Daily Press, a
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/C/CHENEY?SITE=CAVIC&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	Prep Track & Field Place a Classified Ad Request a Temporary Stop May 11, 6:21 PM EDT Cheney warns Iran to keep sea lanes open Cheney: U.S. Is Taking Fight to Enemy Buy AP Photo Reprints Latest Photos of Dick Cheney Cheney warns Iran to keep sea lanes open Transcript: Cheney's Fox News Interview Texas Parks and Wildlife Accident Report ABOARD USS JOHN C. STENNIS (AP) -- From an aircraft carrier in the Persian Gulf, Vice President Dick Cheney warned Iran on Friday the U.S. and its allies will keep it from restricting sea traffic as well as from developing nuclear weapons. "We'll keep the sea lanes open," Cheney said from the hangar deck of the USS John C. Stennis as it steamed about 150 miles from the Iranian coast. Cheney is touring the Middle East asking Arab allies to do more to help Iraq and to curb Iran's growing power in the region. With Iraq in turmoil, both Iran and Saudi Arabia are maneuvering to see who can help fill the leadership vacuum. The vice president made clear the United States' intentions on the rivalry. "We'll stand with others to prevent Iran from gaining nuclear weapons and dominating this region," he said. On Saturday, Cheney will make a fence-mending visit to Saudi Arabia. The oil-rich kingdom, long a key American ally in the Middle East, recently has been shunning the U.S.-supported government of Iraqi Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki, suggesting he is too close to Iran. Roughly a quarter of the world's oil supplies pass through the narrow Straits of Hormuz connecting the Persian Gulf with the open waters of the Arabian Sea. Iran controls the eastern side of the straits. With two U.S. carrier groups now in the region, the vice president declared, "We're sending clear messages to friends and adversaries alike. We'll keep the sea lanes open." The carrier was in the Gulf about 20 miles off Abu Dhabi in the United Arab Emirates. Cheney is spending time there after a two-day tour of Iraq. Standing in front of five F18 Super Hornet fighters and a huge American flag in the cavernous hangar deck - one flight below the carrier's flight deck - Cheney sounded a hard line both on holding firm in Iraq and confronting Iran if necessary. Just over four years after President Bush stood on another aircraft carrier beneath a "Mission Accomplished" banner and declared an end to major combat, Cheney had a far more subdued message. "We want to complete the mission, get it done right, and return with honor," he told Stennis crew members. Officials said that between 3,500 and 4,000 of the carrier's 5,000 sailors and Marines stood in sweltering heat - hovering over 100 degrees - to hear Cheney speak. "It's not easy to serve in this part of the world. It's a place of tension and many conflicts," said Cheney. "We'll stand with our friends in opposing extremism and strategic threats. We'll disrupt attacks on our own forces," he added. U.S. officials have said that some of the sophisticated roadside bombs used against U.S. troops in Iraq have come from Iran. After returning from the carrier, Cheney had dinner with Emirates Crown Prince Sheik Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan. On Saturday, before leaving for Saudi Arabia, Cheney is expected to press Emirates President Sheik Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan to support U.S. efforts in Iraq and to shut down Iranian companies in his country that U.S. officials believe are backing Iran's nuclear development. Some 500,000 Iranians live in the Emirates. Cheney's visit comes just two days before Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad is to visit Abu Dhabi. Ahmadinejad wants the Emirates and other Gulf Arab countries to drop their military alliances with Washington and join Iran in regional efforts. The United States has about 40,000 troops on land bases in Gulf countries outside Iraq and about 20,000 sailors and Marines in the region. No Gulf state has yet backed Iran's offer of an alliance. Iran's top nuclear negotiator said Friday that a compromise over its nuclear program was impossible if the West continued to demand Tehran suspend uranium enrichment, Iran's state broadcasting company reported on its Web site. Ali Larijani's comments came a day after the U.S. and France took Iran to task during a conference on nuclear proliferation for defying a U.N. Security Council demand that it freeze enrichment. "If the West again applies the past wordings about Iran's nuclear case, this issue will not conclude," the Web site quoted Larijani as saying. "They should abandon this idea that they can change conditions of Iran's nuclear case by applying harsh word policy." When he goes to Saudi Arabia on Saturday, Cheney faces a difficult diplomatic mission - trying to ease concerns of King Abdullah about the direction of al-Maliki's Shiite-dominated government in Iraq. Abdullah has increasingly sent signals that he doubts the U.S. troop buildup to help secure Baghdad will work. The king refused to see al-Maliki as the Iraqi prime minister was making a tour of Arab countries late last month. And during a regional conference in the Egyptian resort of Sharm el-Sheik in early May, Saudi Arabia's foreign minister was one of the few Arab diplomats al-Maliki did not meet in face-to-face talks. Abdullah's snub to al-Maliki appeared aimed at showing Saudi Arabia's concern that the Iraqi government is too close to Iran and is not doing enough to reconcile with Iraq's Sunni Arab minority, a Saudi official said at the time. Iran, like Iraq, is heavily Shiite. Saudi Arabia has a predominantly Sunni Muslim population. The visit to the Stennis was a return trip for Cheney, who came to the carrier - then in the Arabian Sea - in March 2002 as he was trying to build support in the area for invading Iraq. Cheney flew to and from the carrier Friday by helicopter. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. Copyright &#169; 2007 Daily Press, a
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/U/US_IRAQ?SITE=CAVIC&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	Prep Track & Field Place a Classified Ad Request a Temporary Stop May 11, 7:06 PM EDT Iraqi officials discourage U.S. pullout House Agrees to Fund Iraq War Through July Bush Calls on Congress to Be Patient With Iraq The Toll: Coalition Casualties Since March 2003 U.S. Allows Mahdi Army a Security Role Iraqis Struggle in Police Training Four Years: AP Journalists Look Back Iraq and Vietnam: Contrasting Protests Land Mines From Iran-Iraq War Sold on Black Market Iraqi Outpost Tests War Strategy Iraq's Toll Felt Across U.S. Soldier Diagnosed Before Attack end soldier diagnosis --> end interactive icon section --> Latest photos from Iraq War tensions follow Bush to commencement Iraqi officials discourage U.S. pullout Car bombings kill 23 at Baghdad bridges Radical Iraqi cleric said to be in Iran White House takes hard line on spending Executive Summary: DOD Inspector General on Pre-Iraq War Intelligence Activities(2/9/2007) Unclassified National Intelligence Estimate Summary on Iraq (2/2/2007) Inspector General Report on Iraq Reconstruction (1/31/2007) AP-Ipsos Poll: Bush and Congress Iraqi officials discourage U.S. pullout White House takes hard line on spending Reid extends negotiations on immigration Poll: Congress, Bush share low approval Lobbying reform losing steam in House The 110th Congress' First 100 Hours Sen. Max Baucus: The AP Interview Mark Foley Scandal Timeline Harry Reid Land Deal Congressional Leadership Financial Disclosure Harry Reid's Ties to Abramoff DeLay and Blunt: Following the Money Congress Goes to Bat for Tribes Buy AP Photo Reprints WASHINGTON (AP) -- Worried Congress' support for Iraq is deteriorating rapidly, Baghdad dispatched senior officials to Capitol Hill this week to warn members one-on-one that pulling out U.S. troops would have disastrous consequences. The lobbying push targeted Republicans and Democrats alike, but focused primarily on those considered influential on the war debate. On Thursday, hours before the House voted to limit funds for the war, Iraqi Deputy Prime Minister Barham Saleh met with more than 30 House Republicans and more than a half-dozen senators, including Sens. Harry Reid, D-Nev., John Warner, R-Va., and Hillary Rodham Clinton, D-N.Y. "He understands that American patience is waning," said Sen. Norm Coleman, after eating lunch with Saleh, Iraqi Ambassador Samir Shakir al-Sumaidaie and Sen. Saxby Chambliss. But the lobbying by the Iraqis isn't the only pressure-point being applied in Washington. Clinton said Friday she considered it "promising" that several Republican House members went to the White House and told President Bush they believe the continuing war is adversely affecting the party. She said the GOP lawmakers told Bush pointblank that "he has to change course in Iraq." But she also said she didn't think that Bush was ready to reverse course. "I think we're going to go back and forth on this for a while longer," Clinton said in an interview Friday on MSNBC's "Morning Joe" program with Joe Scarborough. "It is clear that whatever the mission used to be, it is either accomplished or over," she said. "If there are remaining American interests, then let's spell them out." Baghdad's ability to sell members like Coleman, R-Minn., and Chambliss, R-Ga., on the war effort is critical if the Iraqi government wants U.S. troops to stay. Coleman in recent months has become deeply skeptical of the president's decision to send additional troops to Iraq and says patience on the war in general is limited. Coleman, Chambliss and Sen. John Sununu, R-N.H., who met separately with Saleh, will be up for re-election next year - facing voters who have grown tired of a war in its fifth year and that has killed more than 3,380 troops. While Republicans have been reluctant to intervene, many say President Bush has until September to tell if the troop buildup in Iraq is working before they demand another approach. With the clock ticking, Saleh - a Kurdish politician highly regarded by U.S. officials and who speaks impeccable English - said he came to Capitol Hill to convey the "imperative of success" in Iraq. "Iraq is a central battleground in this historic conflict" against terrorism, he said in a brief interview after meeting with Reid, the Senate majority leader. His trip came on the heels of a visit by Mowaffak al-Rubaie, the national security adviser to Iraqi Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki, along with three other senior advisers, according to the Iraqi embassy. The New York Times first reported al-Rubaie's visit on Tuesday. The timing of these meetings is no mistake. This month, Congress is expected to send Bush legislation that funds the war in Iraq but requires the Baghdad government meet certain political and security reforms. In question is what consequences the Iraqis should face if they fail. Democrats want U.S. troops to leave, Republicans say they don't want to force redeployments, but some say they would be open to withholding more than $5 billion in foreign aid. The House voted 221-205 Thursday for a stronger measure that would fund the war only through July, giving Congress the option of cutting off money after that. The bill is unlikely to survive in the Senate, although it indicates the war's unpopularity among members and their frustration with the lack of progress in the Iraqi parliament. The most recent irritant among U.S. lawmakers was a report that Iraqi officials would break for two months this summer. "Our armed forces are up to 150,000 troops; we're over $600 billion appropriated for this, lost 3,300 lives, 25,000 wounded fellow citizens. ... And the Iraqi answer? We're taking a summer off. Goin' fishing," said Rep. Rahm Emanuel, D-Ill. Saleh said he expects the vacation to be shortened by at least a month, although nothing had been decided. He added that Iraqis value being independent and do "not take kindly of (U.S. officials) telling us when to recess." Democrats seemed to consider these meetings with Iraqi officials as beneficial - if only to convey their frustration to Iraqi officials in person. Reid's spokesman Jim Manley said the senator told Saleh that "U.S. patience, blood and treasure were not unlimited and that the Congress would be taking a more decisive role in the coming weeks and months." "Salih understood the point, and said he would deliver the message to the Iraqi cabinet," Manley added. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. Copyright &#169; 2007 Daily Press, a
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/R/ROMNEY_WEALTH?SITE=CAVIC&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	Prep Track & Field Place a Classified Ad Request a Temporary Stop May 11, 7:04 PM EDT Romney's estimated wealth in millions Buy AP Photo Reprints Latest Photos of Mitt Romney Romney's estimated wealth in millions Critics fault Romney's abortion record Romney assails Sharpton's Mormon comment Sharpton denies disputing Romney's faith Romney ad touts plan to expand military Iraq? Global Warming? Gay Marriage? See Where the Candidates Stand WASHINGTON (AP) -- Republican Mitt Romney is expected to report financial assets between $190 million and $250 million, an amount that would likely make him the wealthiest of the 2008 presidential candidates. Aides to the former Massachusetts governor said his assets have been held in a blind trust that he and his wife set up when he took office in 2002. The adviser who provided the estimate of his assets cautioned that the number is based on 2005 and 2006 financial activity and could amount to a bigger total once the disclosure report is filed later this year. The adviser spoke on condition of anonymity because the totals have not been officially released. The deadline for filing financial disclosures is Tuesday but Romney on Friday obtained an extension. Romney lent his campaign $2 million this year and could clearly tap his wealth again if necessary. Romney is not the wealthiest candidate ever to run for president. Steve Forbes, who ran unsuccessfully for the GOP nomination in 1996, had an estimate net worth of more than $430 million. John Kerry, the 2004 Democratic presidential nominee, reported a net worth between $165 million and $235 million in 2005, most of it controlled by his wife, Teresa Heinz Kerry. Under federal law, officials who are required to divulge their finances must only list their assets and income in broad ranges, making it impossible to pinpoint their exact wealth. Romney also has a blind trust for his children and grandchildren that is estimated to hold assets between $70 million and $100 million, the adviser said. Those assets do not benefit Romney or his wife and are not required to be reported in federal financial disclosures. Romney has five sons, five daughters-in-law and 10 grandchildren. In 1984, Romney founded Bain Capital, an investment company that helped finance Staples, Domino's Pizza and Brookstone. He then became interim CEO at Bain and Co., the consulting firm where he had worked in the early 1980s. He was credited with pulling Bain and Co., out of financial straits. Romney, 60, also was CEO of the Salt Lake Organizing Committee for the 2002 Winter Olympics. In the 2008 race, Romney surprised the Republican field by raising more than $20 million for his campaign in the first three months of the year, outpacing GOP front-runners Rudy Giuliani, the former New York City mayor, and Arizona Sen. John McCain. The estimated total is the first glimpse of Romney's wealth since he has been a public official. Aides said his holdings are complicated, spread across partnerships, investment funds and hedge funds. One adviser said obtaining the underlying assets of the hedge fund alone is "a pretty arduous task." Romney received permission Friday from the Federal Election Commission to delay the official filing of his financial disclosure documents for 45 days beyond Tuesday's deadline. Candidates are entitled to obtain two extensions of up to 45 days each. Most presidential candidates have yet to file their reports. Romney communications director Matt Rhoades said the trustee for Romney's blind trust and "advisers are working diligently to complete the voluminous and complex process and we'll comply with the law." Romney's top rivals, Rudy Giuliani and John McCain, also are wealthy men. McCain, an Arizona senator, amassed most of his money through investments and holdings controlled by his wife, Cindy, an heiress to a major beer distributor, Hensley & Co., founded by her father. Estimates put their net worth at between $20-$32 million. Giuliani, the former New York City mayor, earned his fortune from a multitude of business consulting ventures and paid speeches after leaving office. He received $11.4 million in speaking fees in 2006 alone, an average of about $88,000 a speech. Among Democrats, John Edwards, a former trial lawyer, listed his net worth at between $12.8 million and $60 million in 2003, his last report. Hillary Rodham Clinton, in a 2005 Senate financial disclosure, listed her net worth at between $10 million and $50 million. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. Copyright &#169; 2007 Daily Press, a
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/M/MUTILATED_INFANT?SITE=CAVIC&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	Prep Track & Field Place a Classified Ad Request a Temporary Stop May 11, 6:13 PM EDT Texas mother accused of mutilating baby By JUAN A. LOZANO Buy AP Photo Reprints HOUSTON (AP) -- A mother who claimed the family dog tore off her baby son's genitals was arrested Friday and accused of mutilating the boy herself with a sharp instrument. Katherine Nadal, 25, was led away in handcuffs while awaiting a court hearing on custody of the 3-month-old boy, Holden Gothia. She was charged with injury to a child and held on $100,000 bail. Child-welfare authorities said she told social workers she woke up from a nap March 13 to find that her small dachshund had attacked her son. But a veterinarian and a doctor agreed the dog did not cause the injuries, because there was no blood or human tissue on the animal or in its mouth, police said. Police said in court papers that the mother had used a sharp instrument to cut off the boy's genitals. The instrument was not identified. Nadal's attorney had no comment. Nadal had a history of prescription drug abuse and tested positive for cocaine and methadone the day after Holden was mutilated, authorities said. She has been forbidden to see her son since the injuries occurred in March. "Given what we know today, we will probably work toward terminating her parental rights and reuniting the child with his father or another relative," said Harris County Child Protective Services spokeswoman Estella Olguin. The baby has years of reconstructive surgery and other operations ahead of him, said Daniel Sanders, an attorney for Camden Gothia, the baby's father. The dog has since been released by authorities and adopted. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. Copyright &#169; 2007 Daily Press, a
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/V/VIRTUAL_TRAVEL?SITE=TNJAC&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	AP News @ jacksonsun.com Welcome to The Jackson Sun &mdash; Jackson, TN May 12, 7:19 AM EDT Virtual Trip: Travel in 'Second Life' Second Life: Touring in the Virtual World Buy AP Photo Reprints NEW YORK (AP) -- The tour was a whirlwind: dancing at a beachside disco in Spain surrounded by scantily clad women, grabbing a seat at a lively pub in Dublin, flying in a small aircraft above a lush, tropical forest. Time elapsed? Less than two hours. With no tickets required, no money spent and no need to leave your seat, touring in the virtual world of "Second Life" holds a certain appeal for travelers willing to delve deep into the Internet to find their escape. Visitors need only download a free program, then log in. With the help of elaborate 3-D locales designed and built by the world's residents, tourists can watch their online embodiments - known as their avatars - lounge at the beach, dine at a romantic restaurant, or go out dancing at a crowded nightclub. Like in the real world, it's easy to get lost. Longtime inhabitants of "Second Life" are creating automated tours, opening virtual travel agencies and even publishing travel guidebooks modeled after those seen in the hands of confused tourists. Of course, there are some glaring differences between your average Frommer's guide and "The Unofficial Tourists' Guide to Second Life," published in April by St. Martin's Press. "There are sections on how to fly and how to hover," said co-writer Paul Carr. But despite such necessary adjustments, he said, "it's very much like going to a foreign country." With the ability to fly and even teleport from place to place in "Second Life," which hosted more than 1 million visitors in April, a vacation does not need to be a lengthy affair. As they travel to virtual Roman neighborhoods and fantastical worlds, visitors can interact with other participants from all over the (real) world - about three-quarters of users are from outside the U.S., mostly from Europe, Brazil, Canada, Japan and Australia. In "Second Life," even language difficulties are a thing of the past. Visitors can pick up a free translation program and carry on typed conversations with others speaking any of nine languages. For those looking to get their bearings, one option is the guided tour. Virtual travel agency Synthravels seeks to match up "tourists" and volunteer guides in 27 different online worlds, including "Second Life," "World of Warcraft" and others. On one recent tour of "Second Life," Synthravels founder Mario Gerosa led the way to a virtual representation of the Spanish island of Ibiza, stopping first at a shop selling traditional flamenco garb, then at a disco surrounded by sand and sea, where with the click of a mouse avatars can dance. Next stop is Midnight City, where a flight above the skyscrapers shows the moon's light reflected on the ocean's waves. Nearby, a simulation of a solar eclipse allows Gerosa's avatar, Frank Koolhaas, to walk right up to a blazing sun, standing on the fabric of outer space. Also on the tour: Dublin, a popular hangout among Irish users, and an island called Svarga, where a flying pod carries avatars above what appears to be a rain forest filled with huge trees and giant mushrooms. Like any guided tour in "Second Life," though, this one carried its own inherent difficulties. With both leader and led under their own power, it was quite easy to get separated. Several times, Gerosa's avatar lost some of its clothes. Like the Vatican in the height of tourist season, "Second Life" locations tend to get especially crowded when it's evening in the U.S. or Europe, and the resulting computer lag time can make navigating cumbersome. And finding a guide, in of itself, can be a challenge. The Synthravels Web site has connected guides and tourists more than 200 times, according to Gerosa, but for now it does not charge visitors or pay guides, and finding a tour depends on the sometimes-fickle interest of volunteers. But with some persistence and a willingness to just walk up to knowledgeable avatars and ask, there are guides to be found, Carr said. "There are quite a few people in 'Second Life' who will offer a tour in exchange for a few Linden dollars," said the writer, referring to the world's currency, which can be bought and sold for real-world cash. Those having a hard time securing a personal tour can turn to a number of automated options. Many site creators post vehicles near arrival points and program them to give visitors a tour of the location. By heading to The Guided Tour Company of Second Life, where automated tour vehicles ranging from hang-gliders to flying carpets are sold, avatars can access a programmed tour of tours. By clicking on the free guide, users can teleport to Icarus, where a giant dragonfly carries them to a romantic dance floor surrounded by twinkling stars. Clicking again brings them to Venice Island, where a gondola takes them to an old church adorned with Renaissance paintings and an ornate, carved pulpit. Another click leads to Cocoloco Island Resort, where a white hot-air balloon ferries them around what looks amazingly like a Caribbean resort: beach chairs, thatch cabanas, and a pool that - with a few mouse clicks - allows visitors to float on their backs for hours. At least for now, few people are charging visitors for such travel services. Even a stay at "aloft," a recently reopened virtual hotel by Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide Inc., is free. But the many entrepreneurs of "Second Life" may yet find a way to make travel pay, said Jeska Dzwigalski, a community developer with San Francisco-based Linden Research Inc., which runs the virtual world. She said she has seen the tours and "travel agencies popping up that help people and give them an experience they might not otherwise find. ... As we've grown, that became a potential business for people." Karen Hemmes has seen the demand firsthand - or at least through the eyes of her avatar, Sierra Sugar. A Gainesville, Fla., nurse by day - and a DJ at "Second Life" events by night - Hemmes received a virtual hot-air balloon as a gift, and started taking friends for rides. By the end of many of these tours meant for two, her balloon was packed to capacity with passers-by who had asked to join in, she said. Visitors can even capture a few photos or home videos to remind them of their trip. Screen grabs of a virtual Times Square and videos of avatars surfing are easily found on image-sharing sites around the Web. For those planning to go, though, Carr suggests visitors don't follow his example. "If you want to retain friends and not kill yourselves, then you need to take lots of breaks," said Carr, who holed himself up in a London apartment with co-writer Graham Pond in the final days of their research, subsisting on tinned goods and bottled water. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. Copyright &copy;2006 The Jackson Sun. Users of this site agree to the
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/V/VIRTUAL_TRAVEL?SITE=TNJAC&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	AP News @ jacksonsun.com Welcome to The Jackson Sun &mdash; Jackson, TN May 12, 7:19 AM EDT Virtual Trip: Travel in 'Second Life' Second Life: Touring in the Virtual World Buy AP Photo Reprints NEW YORK (AP) -- The tour was a whirlwind: dancing at a beachside disco in Spain surrounded by scantily clad women, grabbing a seat at a lively pub in Dublin, flying in a small aircraft above a lush, tropical forest. Time elapsed? Less than two hours. With no tickets required, no money spent and no need to leave your seat, touring in the virtual world of "Second Life" holds a certain appeal for travelers willing to delve deep into the Internet to find their escape. Visitors need only download a free program, then log in. With the help of elaborate 3-D locales designed and built by the world's residents, tourists can watch their online embodiments - known as their avatars - lounge at the beach, dine at a romantic restaurant, or go out dancing at a crowded nightclub. Like in the real world, it's easy to get lost. Longtime inhabitants of "Second Life" are creating automated tours, opening virtual travel agencies and even publishing travel guidebooks modeled after those seen in the hands of confused tourists. Of course, there are some glaring differences between your average Frommer's guide and "The Unofficial Tourists' Guide to Second Life," published in April by St. Martin's Press. "There are sections on how to fly and how to hover," said co-writer Paul Carr. But despite such necessary adjustments, he said, "it's very much like going to a foreign country." With the ability to fly and even teleport from place to place in "Second Life," which hosted more than 1 million visitors in April, a vacation does not need to be a lengthy affair. As they travel to virtual Roman neighborhoods and fantastical worlds, visitors can interact with other participants from all over the (real) world - about three-quarters of users are from outside the U.S., mostly from Europe, Brazil, Canada, Japan and Australia. In "Second Life," even language difficulties are a thing of the past. Visitors can pick up a free translation program and carry on typed conversations with others speaking any of nine languages. For those looking to get their bearings, one option is the guided tour. Virtual travel agency Synthravels seeks to match up "tourists" and volunteer guides in 27 different online worlds, including "Second Life," "World of Warcraft" and others. On one recent tour of "Second Life," Synthravels founder Mario Gerosa led the way to a virtual representation of the Spanish island of Ibiza, stopping first at a shop selling traditional flamenco garb, then at a disco surrounded by sand and sea, where with the click of a mouse avatars can dance. Next stop is Midnight City, where a flight above the skyscrapers shows the moon's light reflected on the ocean's waves. Nearby, a simulation of a solar eclipse allows Gerosa's avatar, Frank Koolhaas, to walk right up to a blazing sun, standing on the fabric of outer space. Also on the tour: Dublin, a popular hangout among Irish users, and an island called Svarga, where a flying pod carries avatars above what appears to be a rain forest filled with huge trees and giant mushrooms. Like any guided tour in "Second Life," though, this one carried its own inherent difficulties. With both leader and led under their own power, it was quite easy to get separated. Several times, Gerosa's avatar lost some of its clothes. Like the Vatican in the height of tourist season, "Second Life" locations tend to get especially crowded when it's evening in the U.S. or Europe, and the resulting computer lag time can make navigating cumbersome. And finding a guide, in of itself, can be a challenge. The Synthravels Web site has connected guides and tourists more than 200 times, according to Gerosa, but for now it does not charge visitors or pay guides, and finding a tour depends on the sometimes-fickle interest of volunteers. But with some persistence and a willingness to just walk up to knowledgeable avatars and ask, there are guides to be found, Carr said. "There are quite a few people in 'Second Life' who will offer a tour in exchange for a few Linden dollars," said the writer, referring to the world's currency, which can be bought and sold for real-world cash. Those having a hard time securing a personal tour can turn to a number of automated options. Many site creators post vehicles near arrival points and program them to give visitors a tour of the location. By heading to The Guided Tour Company of Second Life, where automated tour vehicles ranging from hang-gliders to flying carpets are sold, avatars can access a programmed tour of tours. By clicking on the free guide, users can teleport to Icarus, where a giant dragonfly carries them to a romantic dance floor surrounded by twinkling stars. Clicking again brings them to Venice Island, where a gondola takes them to an old church adorned with Renaissance paintings and an ornate, carved pulpit. Another click leads to Cocoloco Island Resort, where a white hot-air balloon ferries them around what looks amazingly like a Caribbean resort: beach chairs, thatch cabanas, and a pool that - with a few mouse clicks - allows visitors to float on their backs for hours. At least for now, few people are charging visitors for such travel services. Even a stay at "aloft," a recently reopened virtual hotel by Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide Inc., is free. But the many entrepreneurs of "Second Life" may yet find a way to make travel pay, said Jeska Dzwigalski, a community developer with San Francisco-based Linden Research Inc., which runs the virtual world. She said she has seen the tours and "travel agencies popping up that help people and give them an experience they might not otherwise find. ... As we've grown, that became a potential business for people." Karen Hemmes has seen the demand firsthand - or at least through the eyes of her avatar, Sierra Sugar. A Gainesville, Fla., nurse by day - and a DJ at "Second Life" events by night - Hemmes received a virtual hot-air balloon as a gift, and started taking friends for rides. By the end of many of these tours meant for two, her balloon was packed to capacity with passers-by who had asked to join in, she said. Visitors can even capture a few photos or home videos to remind them of their trip. Screen grabs of a virtual Times Square and videos of avatars surfing are easily found on image-sharing sites around the Web. For those planning to go, though, Carr suggests visitors don't follow his example. "If you want to retain friends and not kill yourselves, then you need to take lots of breaks," said Carr, who holed himself up in a London apartment with co-writer Graham Pond in the final days of their research, subsisting on tinned goods and bottled water. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. Copyright &copy;2006 The Jackson Sun. Users of this site agree to the
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/B/BLUE_ANGEL_CRASH?SITE=TNJAC&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	AP News @ jacksonsun.com Welcome to The Jackson Sun &mdash; Jackson, TN May 12, 8:12 AM EDT Blue Angels Regroup for Show After Crash Buy AP Photo Reprints Audio Slideshow: Blue Angel Jet Crashes SEYMOUR JOHNSON AIR FORCE BASE, N.C. (AP) -- After 21 years as a U.S. Navy pilot, his career boasting nearly 900 aircraft carrier landings and air combat during the first Gulf War, tragedy comes as no surprise to Cmdr. Kevin Mannix. That includes last month's fatal crash of a fellow Blue Angels pilot during a show in South Carolina. But for Blue Angels pilots, whose demeanor is a key part of the job, the tragedy offers another opportunity to perform the mission they were first given six decades ago: promote the U.S. Navy and U.S. Marines Corps to the world. "Our ability to bounce back and do our mission is the same as every other squadron in the U.S. Navy or U.S. Marine Corps," said Mannix, minutes after practicing Thursday at Seymour Johnson Air Force Base in Goldsboro, where the team on Saturday was to perform its first show since the crash April 21. "The only difference is there's a lot more visibility on us because we are in the public eye," he said. "That's our job and that's what we do. I think a lot more media was focused our way on this specific mishap." Lt. Cmdr. Kevin Davis, 32, died when his No. 6 jet went down during the final minutes of a performance at the Marine Corps Air Station Beaufort in Beaufort, S.C. The Pittsfield, Mass., native was in his first year flying in formation with the team. An investigation into the cause of the crash, the Blue Angels' first since 1999 and the 26th fatality in the team's 60-year history, could take several months, according to the Navy. The Blue Angels typically fly their F/A-18A Hornets six days a week, but they stayed on the ground for nine days after the crash, canceling scheduled performances May 5 and May 6 at Offutt Air Force Base in Nebraska. Saturday's show was to feature only five jets. Lt. Cmdr. Craig Olson, 37, of Kirkland, Wash., replaced Davis a couple of weeks ago. Olson, who flew with the Blue Angels from 2003-2005, will practice with the team for a few more weeks before flying in a show, Mannix said. Mannix, the team's lead pilot in the No. 1 jet, said there was anxiety among the pilots before they flew for the first time after the crash. "We lost a brother, a great friend, a great American, actually," Lt. Cmdr. John Allison, who flies the No. 5 jet, told reporters Thursday after practice. "But we're trying to move forward and think about flying, you know, think about our jobs." During practice, the team flew in its traditional delta formation, the triangle lineup they were in when Davis crashed. Olson practiced as one of two solo members, hitting mach speeds and performing head-on near misses with Allison. Each year, the Navy considers up to about 70 pilots for the squadron. The final six pilots train constantly between January and March at El Centro Naval Air Facility, Calif., and are stationed at Pensacola Naval Air Station in Florida. The team is scheduled to fly 66 air shows this year at 35 locations across the country. The Blue Angels fly without the traditional G-suits, which most jet pilots wear to avoid blacking out during maneuvers that exert strong gravitational forces. The suits inflate and deflate air bladders around the lower body to keep blood in the brain and heart. The air bladders can cause a pilot to bump the control stick, so the Blue Angels learn to manage the G-forces by tensing their abdominal muscles. After a fatal crash, team members said, one of the best responses is to get back into the cockpit and grace the skies with twirls, climbs, dives and near misses at around 350 mph and only inches apart. "It feels good for the team to go back and do it," Mannix said Thursday, "including myself all the way down to the maintainers to do what we do for the American public, to get out there and show them we are resilient in what we do." Wings Over Wayne Air Show: &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. Copyright &copy;2006 The Jackson Sun. Users of this site agree to the
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/B/BLUE_ANGEL_CRASH?SITE=TNJAC&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	AP News @ jacksonsun.com Welcome to The Jackson Sun &mdash; Jackson, TN May 12, 8:12 AM EDT Blue Angels Regroup for Show After Crash Buy AP Photo Reprints Audio Slideshow: Blue Angel Jet Crashes SEYMOUR JOHNSON AIR FORCE BASE, N.C. (AP) -- After 21 years as a U.S. Navy pilot, his career boasting nearly 900 aircraft carrier landings and air combat during the first Gulf War, tragedy comes as no surprise to Cmdr. Kevin Mannix. That includes last month's fatal crash of a fellow Blue Angels pilot during a show in South Carolina. But for Blue Angels pilots, whose demeanor is a key part of the job, the tragedy offers another opportunity to perform the mission they were first given six decades ago: promote the U.S. Navy and U.S. Marines Corps to the world. "Our ability to bounce back and do our mission is the same as every other squadron in the U.S. Navy or U.S. Marine Corps," said Mannix, minutes after practicing Thursday at Seymour Johnson Air Force Base in Goldsboro, where the team on Saturday was to perform its first show since the crash April 21. "The only difference is there's a lot more visibility on us because we are in the public eye," he said. "That's our job and that's what we do. I think a lot more media was focused our way on this specific mishap." Lt. Cmdr. Kevin Davis, 32, died when his No. 6 jet went down during the final minutes of a performance at the Marine Corps Air Station Beaufort in Beaufort, S.C. The Pittsfield, Mass., native was in his first year flying in formation with the team. An investigation into the cause of the crash, the Blue Angels' first since 1999 and the 26th fatality in the team's 60-year history, could take several months, according to the Navy. The Blue Angels typically fly their F/A-18A Hornets six days a week, but they stayed on the ground for nine days after the crash, canceling scheduled performances May 5 and May 6 at Offutt Air Force Base in Nebraska. Saturday's show was to feature only five jets. Lt. Cmdr. Craig Olson, 37, of Kirkland, Wash., replaced Davis a couple of weeks ago. Olson, who flew with the Blue Angels from 2003-2005, will practice with the team for a few more weeks before flying in a show, Mannix said. Mannix, the team's lead pilot in the No. 1 jet, said there was anxiety among the pilots before they flew for the first time after the crash. "We lost a brother, a great friend, a great American, actually," Lt. Cmdr. John Allison, who flies the No. 5 jet, told reporters Thursday after practice. "But we're trying to move forward and think about flying, you know, think about our jobs." During practice, the team flew in its traditional delta formation, the triangle lineup they were in when Davis crashed. Olson practiced as one of two solo members, hitting mach speeds and performing head-on near misses with Allison. Each year, the Navy considers up to about 70 pilots for the squadron. The final six pilots train constantly between January and March at El Centro Naval Air Facility, Calif., and are stationed at Pensacola Naval Air Station in Florida. The team is scheduled to fly 66 air shows this year at 35 locations across the country. The Blue Angels fly without the traditional G-suits, which most jet pilots wear to avoid blacking out during maneuvers that exert strong gravitational forces. The suits inflate and deflate air bladders around the lower body to keep blood in the brain and heart. The air bladders can cause a pilot to bump the control stick, so the Blue Angels learn to manage the G-forces by tensing their abdominal muscles. After a fatal crash, team members said, one of the best responses is to get back into the cockpit and grace the skies with twirls, climbs, dives and near misses at around 350 mph and only inches apart. "It feels good for the team to go back and do it," Mannix said Thursday, "including myself all the way down to the maintainers to do what we do for the American public, to get out there and show them we are resilient in what we do." Wings Over Wayne Air Show: &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. Copyright &copy;2006 The Jackson Sun. Users of this site agree to the
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/P/PAKISTAN_JUDICIAL_CRISIS?SITE=TNJAC&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	AP News @ jacksonsun.com Welcome to The Jackson Sun &mdash; Jackson, TN May 12, 8:38 AM EDT 18 Killed in Pakistan Political Violence Buy AP Photo Reprints Associated Press Pop-up Link Copyright &copy;2006 The Jackson Sun. Users of this site agree to the
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/P/PAKISTAN_JUDICIAL_CRISIS?SITE=TNJAC&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	AP News @ jacksonsun.com Welcome to The Jackson Sun &mdash; Jackson, TN May 12, 8:38 AM EDT 18 Killed in Pakistan Political Violence Buy AP Photo Reprints Associated Press Pop-up Link Copyright &copy;2006 The Jackson Sun. Users of this site agree to the
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/B/BKN_NBA_PLAYOFFS_RDP?SITE=TNJAC&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	AP News @ jacksonsun.com Welcome to The Jackson Sun &mdash; Jackson, TN May 12, 6:18 AM EDT Davis Helps Warriors Rout Jazz 125-105 AP Photo/Marcio Jose Sanchez A-P correspondent Mike Gracia reports a doctor's group has succeeded in killing ad campaigns that associate drinking milk with weight loss. Excerpt of 911 call in Artest domestic violence case (mp3) Davis Helps Warriors Rout Jazz 125-105 Davis Carries Warriors to Rout of Jazz Nowitzki Is 1st European to Win NBA MVP Pistons Take 3-0 Series Lead on Bulls Celtics Extend Doc Rivers' Contract Stoudemire Calls Spurs 'Dirty' Players Nash Leads Votes for All-NBA First Team Fisher Fine-Tunes Jazz in Overtime Win Column: NBA Gets Race, Workplace Right Study: NBA Has Most Diverse Workforce Buy AP Photo Reprints OAKLAND, Calif. (AP) -- Baron Davis' twisting drives, off-balance 3-pointers and steady playmaking gave the Golden State Warriors their key Game 3 win. All anyone wanted to talk about after the game was the dunk. Davis' one-handed throw down over Andrei Kirilenko provided the exclamation point to the Warriors' 125-105 victory over the Jazz on Friday night that cut Utah's series lead to 2-1. "I shocked myself on that dunk," Davis said. "I got that bounce. I saw Kirilenko and I was going to try to reverse it. But knowing he was a great shot-blocker, I figured I would just try my luck, and I got lucky." Davis finished with 32 points and nine assists in a performance so breathtaking that his 360-degree layup earlier in the fourth quarter was barely a footnote after he capped his night with the jam. Davis beat Deron Williams off the dribble and launched himself - bad hamstring, bad knee and all - toward the rim as Kirilenko came over for what he hoped would be his 17th block of the series. But Davis put his left hand in Kirilenko's face and powered the ball through the rim with his right hand, sending his teammates and the raucous crowd into disbelief and giving the Warriors a 121-99 lead with 2:48 left. "That would have to be the greatest dunk I've ever seen with my eyes in person," marveled Jason Richardson, the two-time NBA dunk champion. "It was like he put his whole body in the rim." Even Kirilenko was impressed. "At least I got to be on the poster," he said. Davis even got a technical foul after throwing it down for "acting the fool" in celebration, but it didn't matter at that point. Game 4 in the best-of-seven series is Sunday night in Oakland, with Game 5 back in Salt Lake City on Tuesday. In the other playoff series, Cleveland was scheduled at New Jersey and Phoenix at San Antonio on Saturday. The Cavaliers led 2-0 and the Suns were tied with the Spurs 101. Detroit, ahead 3-0, is at Chicago on Sunday. Davis had plenty of help as the Warriors bounced back from two tough losses in Utah to open the series, including an overtime defeat Wednesday aided by Davis' missed free throw in the closing seconds. Coach Don Nelson could see the frustration on his players as they walked off the plane following that loss. All it took was the energy from the soldout crowd decked out in their yellow "We Believe!" T-shirts to get the Warriors back on track. "Flying back you're thinking about all the mistakes you made, all the shots you missed, the free throws, the defensive assignments," Davis said. "It was a long flight. Coming back tonight, we wanted to play a full 48 minutes and close this game out and we did." The Warriors went on a 15-0 run in the first quarter and then broke the game open with a 40-point second quarter, hitting a record-tying 11 3-pointers in the first half. Richardson hit five of Golden State's 15 3-pointers for the game on the way to a 25-point night, Al Harrington added 15 points and the eighth-seeded Warriors got big contributions from Andris Biedrins, Mickael Pietrus and Monta Ellis on their way to the win. Golden State once again looked like the loose, freewheeling team that knocked off top-seeded Dallas in the opening round with three impressive wins at home. "That's how we play," Stephen Jackson said. "I think we got out playing our game tonight. We knocked some 3s down, took the game up-tempo and once we got a lead we know how to keep it at home. It's harder on the road. But we were able to finish the game tonight." Carlos Boozer had 19 points and 11 rebounds to lead the Jazz, who could not capitalize on the momentum Derek Fisher's dramatic midgame return from his baby daughter's cancer operation in Game 2 gave them. Fisher had nine points and no assists before fouling out. Point guard Deron Williams also was in foul trouble and had seven of Utah's 25 turnovers. "We need to play smarter and more efficient," Fisher said. "We turned the ball over way too much. Sometimes when you turn the ball over at home, at times you can get away with it. When you turn the ball over 20-plus times on the road, it makes life really hard." Utah tried to rally in the second half, cutting a 30-point lead to 15 in the fourth quarter. But Davis wouldn't let the Jazz get any closer. "He was terrific," Utah coach Jerry Sloan said. "As a point guard, he had as great a game as you would see. He's that kind of player. I've never seen him have a game like that." Notes:@ Golden State center Adonal Foyle made his first career playoff appearance in the closing minutes after playing 641 regular season games without playing in the postseason. ... Utah G Dee Brown missed the game with an injured neck after a scary fall in Game 2. Brown hopes to be able to play Sunday. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. Copyright &copy;2006 The Jackson Sun. Users of this site agree to the
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/B/BKN_NBA_PLAYOFFS_RDP?SITE=TNJAC&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	AP News @ jacksonsun.com Welcome to The Jackson Sun &mdash; Jackson, TN May 12, 6:18 AM EDT Davis Helps Warriors Rout Jazz 125-105 AP Photo/Marcio Jose Sanchez A-P correspondent Mike Gracia reports a doctor's group has succeeded in killing ad campaigns that associate drinking milk with weight loss. Excerpt of 911 call in Artest domestic violence case (mp3) Davis Helps Warriors Rout Jazz 125-105 Davis Carries Warriors to Rout of Jazz Nowitzki Is 1st European to Win NBA MVP Pistons Take 3-0 Series Lead on Bulls Celtics Extend Doc Rivers' Contract Stoudemire Calls Spurs 'Dirty' Players Nash Leads Votes for All-NBA First Team Fisher Fine-Tunes Jazz in Overtime Win Column: NBA Gets Race, Workplace Right Study: NBA Has Most Diverse Workforce Buy AP Photo Reprints OAKLAND, Calif. (AP) -- Baron Davis' twisting drives, off-balance 3-pointers and steady playmaking gave the Golden State Warriors their key Game 3 win. All anyone wanted to talk about after the game was the dunk. Davis' one-handed throw down over Andrei Kirilenko provided the exclamation point to the Warriors' 125-105 victory over the Jazz on Friday night that cut Utah's series lead to 2-1. "I shocked myself on that dunk," Davis said. "I got that bounce. I saw Kirilenko and I was going to try to reverse it. But knowing he was a great shot-blocker, I figured I would just try my luck, and I got lucky." Davis finished with 32 points and nine assists in a performance so breathtaking that his 360-degree layup earlier in the fourth quarter was barely a footnote after he capped his night with the jam. Davis beat Deron Williams off the dribble and launched himself - bad hamstring, bad knee and all - toward the rim as Kirilenko came over for what he hoped would be his 17th block of the series. But Davis put his left hand in Kirilenko's face and powered the ball through the rim with his right hand, sending his teammates and the raucous crowd into disbelief and giving the Warriors a 121-99 lead with 2:48 left. "That would have to be the greatest dunk I've ever seen with my eyes in person," marveled Jason Richardson, the two-time NBA dunk champion. "It was like he put his whole body in the rim." Even Kirilenko was impressed. "At least I got to be on the poster," he said. Davis even got a technical foul after throwing it down for "acting the fool" in celebration, but it didn't matter at that point. Game 4 in the best-of-seven series is Sunday night in Oakland, with Game 5 back in Salt Lake City on Tuesday. In the other playoff series, Cleveland was scheduled at New Jersey and Phoenix at San Antonio on Saturday. The Cavaliers led 2-0 and the Suns were tied with the Spurs 101. Detroit, ahead 3-0, is at Chicago on Sunday. Davis had plenty of help as the Warriors bounced back from two tough losses in Utah to open the series, including an overtime defeat Wednesday aided by Davis' missed free throw in the closing seconds. Coach Don Nelson could see the frustration on his players as they walked off the plane following that loss. All it took was the energy from the soldout crowd decked out in their yellow "We Believe!" T-shirts to get the Warriors back on track. "Flying back you're thinking about all the mistakes you made, all the shots you missed, the free throws, the defensive assignments," Davis said. "It was a long flight. Coming back tonight, we wanted to play a full 48 minutes and close this game out and we did." The Warriors went on a 15-0 run in the first quarter and then broke the game open with a 40-point second quarter, hitting a record-tying 11 3-pointers in the first half. Richardson hit five of Golden State's 15 3-pointers for the game on the way to a 25-point night, Al Harrington added 15 points and the eighth-seeded Warriors got big contributions from Andris Biedrins, Mickael Pietrus and Monta Ellis on their way to the win. Golden State once again looked like the loose, freewheeling team that knocked off top-seeded Dallas in the opening round with three impressive wins at home. "That's how we play," Stephen Jackson said. "I think we got out playing our game tonight. We knocked some 3s down, took the game up-tempo and once we got a lead we know how to keep it at home. It's harder on the road. But we were able to finish the game tonight." Carlos Boozer had 19 points and 11 rebounds to lead the Jazz, who could not capitalize on the momentum Derek Fisher's dramatic midgame return from his baby daughter's cancer operation in Game 2 gave them. Fisher had nine points and no assists before fouling out. Point guard Deron Williams also was in foul trouble and had seven of Utah's 25 turnovers. "We need to play smarter and more efficient," Fisher said. "We turned the ball over way too much. Sometimes when you turn the ball over at home, at times you can get away with it. When you turn the ball over 20-plus times on the road, it makes life really hard." Utah tried to rally in the second half, cutting a 30-point lead to 15 in the fourth quarter. But Davis wouldn't let the Jazz get any closer. "He was terrific," Utah coach Jerry Sloan said. "As a point guard, he had as great a game as you would see. He's that kind of player. I've never seen him have a game like that." Notes:@ Golden State center Adonal Foyle made his first career playoff appearance in the closing minutes after playing 641 regular season games without playing in the postseason. ... Utah G Dee Brown missed the game with an injured neck after a scary fall in Game 2. Brown hopes to be able to play Sunday. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. Copyright &copy;2006 The Jackson Sun. Users of this site agree to the
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/S/SMOKING_BAN?SITE=TNJAC&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	AP News @ jacksonsun.com Welcome to The Jackson Sun &mdash; Jackson, TN May 12, 7:13 AM EDT Minnesota Lawmakers Pass Smoking Ban Minnesota Lawmakers Pass Smoking Ban MPAA Adds Smoking As Film-Rating Factor Buy AP Photo Reprints ST. PAUL, Minn. (AP) -- Minnesota would ban smoking in bars, restaurants and other establishments under a bill approved by the Legislature. The bill passed the state House by an 81-48 vote early Saturday, hours after the state Senate approved it 43-21. It now heads to Gov. Tim Pawlenty, who has said he will sign it. Minnesota would become the 20th state to prohibit smoking in bars and restaurants. Violations would carry fines of up to $300 for smokers and business owners who allow smoking. The ban would start Oct. 1. Supporters of the bill hailed its passage as a win for public health. Minnesota broke ground nationally in 1975 with the Clean Indoor Air Act, which limited smoking to designated areas in public places and at public meetings. "We had lost an edge in terms of leading on that issue and now we're back," said Mike Maguire of the American Cancer Society. "This is where the country is going." But Rep. Bud Heidgerken, a Republican who runs Charlie's Cafe in Freeport, called the bill an overreach that will hurt businesses like his. "I for one don't like you putting your nose in my business," he told backers. "That's my air in that cafe, not yours. If you don't want to come, don't come." In 2000, Moose Lake became the first Minnesota city to prohibit smoking in restaurants. Six counties and nine cities followed with bans of their own, some more restrictive than others. Two more local bans kick in June 1. Under the bill passed Saturday, local governments would be free to pass stricter anti-smoking ordinances, including restrictions on outdoor smoking. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. Copyright &copy;2006 The Jackson Sun. Users of this site agree to the
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/S/SMOKING_BAN?SITE=TNJAC&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	AP News @ jacksonsun.com Welcome to The Jackson Sun &mdash; Jackson, TN May 12, 7:13 AM EDT Minnesota Lawmakers Pass Smoking Ban Minnesota Lawmakers Pass Smoking Ban MPAA Adds Smoking As Film-Rating Factor Buy AP Photo Reprints ST. PAUL, Minn. (AP) -- Minnesota would ban smoking in bars, restaurants and other establishments under a bill approved by the Legislature. The bill passed the state House by an 81-48 vote early Saturday, hours after the state Senate approved it 43-21. It now heads to Gov. Tim Pawlenty, who has said he will sign it. Minnesota would become the 20th state to prohibit smoking in bars and restaurants. Violations would carry fines of up to $300 for smokers and business owners who allow smoking. The ban would start Oct. 1. Supporters of the bill hailed its passage as a win for public health. Minnesota broke ground nationally in 1975 with the Clean Indoor Air Act, which limited smoking to designated areas in public places and at public meetings. "We had lost an edge in terms of leading on that issue and now we're back," said Mike Maguire of the American Cancer Society. "This is where the country is going." But Rep. Bud Heidgerken, a Republican who runs Charlie's Cafe in Freeport, called the bill an overreach that will hurt businesses like his. "I for one don't like you putting your nose in my business," he told backers. "That's my air in that cafe, not yours. If you don't want to come, don't come." In 2000, Moose Lake became the first Minnesota city to prohibit smoking in restaurants. Six counties and nine cities followed with bans of their own, some more restrictive than others. Two more local bans kick in June 1. Under the bill passed Saturday, local governments would be free to pass stricter anti-smoking ordinances, including restrictions on outdoor smoking. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. Copyright &copy;2006 The Jackson Sun. Users of this site agree to the
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/W/WILDFIRES?SITE=TNJAC&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	AP News @ jacksonsun.com Welcome to The Jackson Sun &mdash; Jackson, TN May 12, 9:18 AM EDT Calif. Island Survives Wildfire Scare AP Photo/LANCE CPL RYAN L TOMLINSON Firefighters Get Upperhand on Island Blaze Photos: Wildfires Across the U.S. Photos: Wildfire Burns in California Charges Against Crew Boss Calif. Island Survives Wildfire Scare 2 Kids Charged in Ga. Wildfires Ga. Wildfire Called 'A Long-Term Battle' Buy AP Photo Reprints AVALON, Calif. (AP) -- Residents have started returning to this picturesque town off the Southern California coast after firefighters and favorable weather conditions halted a wildfire's advance into Catalina Island's most populated area. The island remained quiet Friday as nearly 4,000 evacuated residents began heading back to inspect their homes and apartments and reopen businesses that largely cater to tourists. "I thought it would be a melted ball of plastic," said Jim Gilligan, who reached his workplace, Dave Zeller Construction, on a golf cart. He was pleasantly surprised to find the building still standing - especially with charred ground 30 feet from the door. Visitors were still being told to stay away. An estimated 10,000 tourists take ferries from the mainland to the island each day to lounge on the beach, play golf or take inland tours. About 700 firefighters continued to battle the blaze, which started Thursday afternoon and burned about 4,200 acres - about 6 of the island's 76 squares miles. Containment was estimated at 35 percent. They were aided by a night with temperatures in the 50s and humidity higher than 70 percent - far different from the gusty, dry conditions of the fire's first day. Avalon Fire Chief Steven Hoefs said the cause of the fire remained under investigation but it appeared to have been sparked as contractors worked on antennas at a radio station in the island's interior. Only one home and six industrial businesses burned and no one was seriously injured, giving firefighters their latest in a string of victories. About 50 miles away on the mainland, crews just days earlier beat back flames in Los Angeles' sprawling Griffith Park that singed a neighborhood of multimillion-dollar homes. That was the third menacing fire in the Hollywood Hills this spring, one of the driest rainy seasons on record. Just 2 inches have fallen on Catalina this year. Environmentalists said it was too early to tell how the blaze affected the island's ecosystem, home to rare animal and plant life, including the Catalina Island fox. But four bald eaglets that hatched earlier this year without human help were unharmed, said Bob Rhein, a spokesman for the Catalina Island Conservancy, which owns most of the island. The birds are a milestone in the reintroduction of the species, which was wiped out on the island decades ago by chemical contamination. Avalon Mayor Robert Kennedy credited the firefighting success to quick-arriving reinforcements from the mainland and training that included dry runs with military hovercraft and helicopter drops. Across the country, firefighters battled a wildfire in Georgia and northern Florida that burned 179,940 acres - or 281 square miles - since a lightning strike ignited it a week ago. The fire, which started last Saturday in the middle of the Okefenokee National Wildlife Refuge, took just six days to grow larger than a wildfire that has burned 116,480 acres of Georgia forest and swampland in more than three weeks. In Georgia, the fire posed a potential threat to the city of Fargo, where 380 people live about eight miles west of the Okefenokee Swamp. Occupants of about 15 homes in a subdivision were asked to leave as a precaution because of the smoke and ash. About 570 homes in northern Columbia County, Fla., were evacuated overnight Thursday, and heavy smoke blanketed the area. A haze was seen in Miami, more than 300 miles away. To the north, a wildfire grew to nearly 86 square miles in northeastern Minnesota and across the border into Canada, cutting power lines to many resorts and lake homes. Dozens of houses and cabins have burned, and about 300 people had checked in at an evacuation center. The fire, fed by drought-parched forest, has destroyed 134 structures, including 62 houses and cabins. Crews on Friday held the fire around most of its perimeter, and favorable weather was predicted for Saturday. Associated Press writers Jeff Wilson and Robert Jablon in Los Angeles, Peter Prengaman in Long Beach, Andrew Glazer in Avalon, Russ Bynum in Folkston, Ga., and Amy Forliti in Grand Marais, Minn., contributed to this report. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. Copyright &copy;2006 The Jackson Sun. Users of this site agree to the
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/W/WILDFIRES?SITE=TNJAC&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	AP News @ jacksonsun.com Welcome to The Jackson Sun &mdash; Jackson, TN May 12, 9:18 AM EDT Calif. Island Survives Wildfire Scare AP Photo/LANCE CPL RYAN L TOMLINSON Firefighters Get Upperhand on Island Blaze Photos: Wildfires Across the U.S. Photos: Wildfire Burns in California Charges Against Crew Boss Calif. Island Survives Wildfire Scare 2 Kids Charged in Ga. Wildfires Ga. Wildfire Called 'A Long-Term Battle' Buy AP Photo Reprints AVALON, Calif. (AP) -- Residents have started returning to this picturesque town off the Southern California coast after firefighters and favorable weather conditions halted a wildfire's advance into Catalina Island's most populated area. The island remained quiet Friday as nearly 4,000 evacuated residents began heading back to inspect their homes and apartments and reopen businesses that largely cater to tourists. "I thought it would be a melted ball of plastic," said Jim Gilligan, who reached his workplace, Dave Zeller Construction, on a golf cart. He was pleasantly surprised to find the building still standing - especially with charred ground 30 feet from the door. Visitors were still being told to stay away. An estimated 10,000 tourists take ferries from the mainland to the island each day to lounge on the beach, play golf or take inland tours. About 700 firefighters continued to battle the blaze, which started Thursday afternoon and burned about 4,200 acres - about 6 of the island's 76 squares miles. Containment was estimated at 35 percent. They were aided by a night with temperatures in the 50s and humidity higher than 70 percent - far different from the gusty, dry conditions of the fire's first day. Avalon Fire Chief Steven Hoefs said the cause of the fire remained under investigation but it appeared to have been sparked as contractors worked on antennas at a radio station in the island's interior. Only one home and six industrial businesses burned and no one was seriously injured, giving firefighters their latest in a string of victories. About 50 miles away on the mainland, crews just days earlier beat back flames in Los Angeles' sprawling Griffith Park that singed a neighborhood of multimillion-dollar homes. That was the third menacing fire in the Hollywood Hills this spring, one of the driest rainy seasons on record. Just 2 inches have fallen on Catalina this year. Environmentalists said it was too early to tell how the blaze affected the island's ecosystem, home to rare animal and plant life, including the Catalina Island fox. But four bald eaglets that hatched earlier this year without human help were unharmed, said Bob Rhein, a spokesman for the Catalina Island Conservancy, which owns most of the island. The birds are a milestone in the reintroduction of the species, which was wiped out on the island decades ago by chemical contamination. Avalon Mayor Robert Kennedy credited the firefighting success to quick-arriving reinforcements from the mainland and training that included dry runs with military hovercraft and helicopter drops. Across the country, firefighters battled a wildfire in Georgia and northern Florida that burned 179,940 acres - or 281 square miles - since a lightning strike ignited it a week ago. The fire, which started last Saturday in the middle of the Okefenokee National Wildlife Refuge, took just six days to grow larger than a wildfire that has burned 116,480 acres of Georgia forest and swampland in more than three weeks. In Georgia, the fire posed a potential threat to the city of Fargo, where 380 people live about eight miles west of the Okefenokee Swamp. Occupants of about 15 homes in a subdivision were asked to leave as a precaution because of the smoke and ash. About 570 homes in northern Columbia County, Fla., were evacuated overnight Thursday, and heavy smoke blanketed the area. A haze was seen in Miami, more than 300 miles away. To the north, a wildfire grew to nearly 86 square miles in northeastern Minnesota and across the border into Canada, cutting power lines to many resorts and lake homes. Dozens of houses and cabins have burned, and about 300 people had checked in at an evacuation center. The fire, fed by drought-parched forest, has destroyed 134 structures, including 62 houses and cabins. Crews on Friday held the fire around most of its perimeter, and favorable weather was predicted for Saturday. Associated Press writers Jeff Wilson and Robert Jablon in Los Angeles, Peter Prengaman in Long Beach, Andrew Glazer in Avalon, Russ Bynum in Folkston, Ga., and Amy Forliti in Grand Marais, Minn., contributed to this report. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. Copyright &copy;2006 The Jackson Sun. Users of this site agree to the
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/C/CHENEY?SITE=TNJAC&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	AP News @ jacksonsun.com Welcome to The Jackson Sun &mdash; Jackson, TN May 12, 6:52 AM EDT Cheney, in Mideast, Seeks Help on Iraq Cheney: U.S. Is Taking Fight to Enemy Cheney: Iraq Remains a Dangerous Place Vice President Dick Cheney says the crisis in Iraq can't be solved with a withdrawal of U-S forces. Buy AP Photo Reprints Latest Photos of Dick Cheney Cheney, in Mideast, Seeks Help on Iraq Transcript: Cheney's Fox News Interview Texas Parks and Wildlife Accident Report Latest White House Headlines War Tensions Follow Bush to Commencement Blair Coming to Washington White House Rebuts Guard Shortage Claim Bush Moves to Replace State Official U.S. Hails Sarkozy's Election in France ABU DHABI, United Arab Emirates (AP) -- Vice President Dick Cheney sought greater support for U.S. Iraq policy from this moderate Arab Gulf state on Saturday in a visit also aimed at countering growing Iranian influence in the region. Cheney met with Emirates President Sheik Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan and other top UAE officials for lunch in a huge and glittering dining room in Abu Dhabi's Musharif Palace. That meeting came ahead of a delicate fence-mending visit to Saudi Arabia. Cheney's meeting with they UAE leaders came on the eve of a visit to Abu Dhabi by Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, who is trying to persuade the Emirates and other Gulf states to drop their military alliances with Washington. The U.S. wants the UAE, on the other side of the Persian Gulf from Iran, to agree to shut down Iranian companies in this country believed to be backing Iran's nuclear activities. The vice president was to meet later Saturday in the northern Saudi city of Tubuk with King Abdullah in a bid to overcome rising Saudi skepticism over the U.S. military strategy to secure Baghdad and the leadership capabilities of Iraqi President Nouri al-Maliki. Although considered a key American ally in the Arab world, Abdullah has increasingly sent signals that he doubts the effectiveness of President Bush's troop buildup strategy. The king has also signaled that he views al-Maliki as a weak leader with too many ties to pro-Iranian Shiite parties to be effective in reaching out to Iraqi's Sunni minority. Cheney is touring Saudi Arabia and the smaller Gulf states in an attempt to win wider support for ethnic reconciliation in Iraq and to counter efforts by Iran to spead its influence in the region. Cheney's mission to Saudi Arabia includes an effort to smooth over recent divisions between the oil-rich kingdom and the United States. The kingdom has taken an aggressive leadership role in efforts to quiet Mideast troubles. In a possible attempt to gain more credibility in the region, King Abdullah recently has openly challenged the U.S. military presence in Iraq, calling U.S. troops in Iraq an "illegal foreign occupation." The king also refused to see al-Maliki as the Iraqi prime minister was making a tour of Arab countries late last month. Cheney went to Saudi Arabia last November for meetings with the king that are still shrouded in secrecy. After dinner with the king, Cheney was to travel next to Jordan. He will also visit Egypt on a weeklong trip that has already taken him to Iraq and the United Arab Emirates. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. Copyright &copy;2006 The Jackson Sun. Users of this site agree to the
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/C/CHENEY?SITE=TNJAC&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	AP News @ jacksonsun.com Welcome to The Jackson Sun &mdash; Jackson, TN May 12, 6:52 AM EDT Cheney, in Mideast, Seeks Help on Iraq Cheney: U.S. Is Taking Fight to Enemy Cheney: Iraq Remains a Dangerous Place Vice President Dick Cheney says the crisis in Iraq can't be solved with a withdrawal of U-S forces. Buy AP Photo Reprints Latest Photos of Dick Cheney Cheney, in Mideast, Seeks Help on Iraq Transcript: Cheney's Fox News Interview Texas Parks and Wildlife Accident Report Latest White House Headlines War Tensions Follow Bush to Commencement Blair Coming to Washington White House Rebuts Guard Shortage Claim Bush Moves to Replace State Official U.S. Hails Sarkozy's Election in France ABU DHABI, United Arab Emirates (AP) -- Vice President Dick Cheney sought greater support for U.S. Iraq policy from this moderate Arab Gulf state on Saturday in a visit also aimed at countering growing Iranian influence in the region. Cheney met with Emirates President Sheik Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan and other top UAE officials for lunch in a huge and glittering dining room in Abu Dhabi's Musharif Palace. That meeting came ahead of a delicate fence-mending visit to Saudi Arabia. Cheney's meeting with they UAE leaders came on the eve of a visit to Abu Dhabi by Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, who is trying to persuade the Emirates and other Gulf states to drop their military alliances with Washington. The U.S. wants the UAE, on the other side of the Persian Gulf from Iran, to agree to shut down Iranian companies in this country believed to be backing Iran's nuclear activities. The vice president was to meet later Saturday in the northern Saudi city of Tubuk with King Abdullah in a bid to overcome rising Saudi skepticism over the U.S. military strategy to secure Baghdad and the leadership capabilities of Iraqi President Nouri al-Maliki. Although considered a key American ally in the Arab world, Abdullah has increasingly sent signals that he doubts the effectiveness of President Bush's troop buildup strategy. The king has also signaled that he views al-Maliki as a weak leader with too many ties to pro-Iranian Shiite parties to be effective in reaching out to Iraqi's Sunni minority. Cheney is touring Saudi Arabia and the smaller Gulf states in an attempt to win wider support for ethnic reconciliation in Iraq and to counter efforts by Iran to spead its influence in the region. Cheney's mission to Saudi Arabia includes an effort to smooth over recent divisions between the oil-rich kingdom and the United States. The kingdom has taken an aggressive leadership role in efforts to quiet Mideast troubles. In a possible attempt to gain more credibility in the region, King Abdullah recently has openly challenged the U.S. military presence in Iraq, calling U.S. troops in Iraq an "illegal foreign occupation." The king also refused to see al-Maliki as the Iraqi prime minister was making a tour of Arab countries late last month. Cheney went to Saudi Arabia last November for meetings with the king that are still shrouded in secrecy. After dinner with the king, Cheney was to travel next to Jordan. He will also visit Egypt on a weeklong trip that has already taken him to Iraq and the United Arab Emirates. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. Copyright &copy;2006 The Jackson Sun. Users of this site agree to the
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/I/IRAQ?SITE=TNJAC&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	AP News @ jacksonsun.com Welcome to The Jackson Sun &mdash; Jackson, TN May 12, 9:10 AM EDT Iraq Attack Leaves 5 GIs Dead; 3 Missing The Toll: Coalition Casualties Since March 2003 U.S. Allows Mahdi Army a Security Role Iraqis Struggle in Police Training Four Years: AP Journalists Look Back Iraq and Vietnam: Contrasting Protests Land Mines From Iran-Iraq War Sold on Black Market Iraqi Outpost Tests War Strategy Iraq's Toll Felt Across U.S. Soldier Diagnosed Before Attack end soldier diagnosis --> end interactive icon section --> Latest photos from Iraq Iraq Attack Leaves 5 GIs Dead; 3 Missing Al-Hakim Calls for 'Security Agreement' Iraqi Officials Discourage U.S. Pullout War Tensions Follow Bush to Commencement U.S. Military Deaths in Iraq at 3,386 Executive Summary: DOD Inspector General on Pre-Iraq War Intelligence Activities(2/9/2007) Unclassified National Intelligence Estimate Summary on Iraq (2/2/2007) Inspector General Report on Iraq Reconstruction (1/31/2007) Buy AP Photo Reprints BAGHDAD (AP) -- Seven U.S. soldiers and an Iraqi army interpreter came under attack Saturday morning during a patrol of a Sunni insurgent stronghold south of Baghdad, leaving five dead and three missing, the military said. Troops were searching for the three missing, using drone planes, jets and checkpoints throughout the area, according to the statement. Soldiers were also asking local leaders for information. After the pre-dawn attack near Mahmoudiya, a Sunni stronghold about 20 miles south of Baghdad, nearby units heard explosions and a drone plane later observed two burning vehicles, the statement said. Troops who arrived later found five of the soldiers dead. The other three members of the patrol were gone, according to the statement, from Maj. Gen. William Caldwell, the chief U.S. military spokesman in Iraq. The military refused to specify whether the Iraqi interpreter was among those killed or among the missing, citing security. "Make no mistake: We will never stop looking for our soldiers until their status is definitively determined, and we continue to pray for their safe return," Caldwell said. The attack occurred nearly a year after two American soldiers went missing following a June 16 attack in the same area, prompting a massive search. Their bodies were found tied together with a bomb between one victim's legs several days later. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. Copyright &copy;2006 The Jackson Sun. Users of this site agree to the
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/I/IRAQ?SITE=TNJAC&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	AP News @ jacksonsun.com Welcome to The Jackson Sun &mdash; Jackson, TN May 12, 9:10 AM EDT Iraq Attack Leaves 5 GIs Dead; 3 Missing The Toll: Coalition Casualties Since March 2003 U.S. Allows Mahdi Army a Security Role Iraqis Struggle in Police Training Four Years: AP Journalists Look Back Iraq and Vietnam: Contrasting Protests Land Mines From Iran-Iraq War Sold on Black Market Iraqi Outpost Tests War Strategy Iraq's Toll Felt Across U.S. Soldier Diagnosed Before Attack end soldier diagnosis --> end interactive icon section --> Latest photos from Iraq Iraq Attack Leaves 5 GIs Dead; 3 Missing Al-Hakim Calls for 'Security Agreement' Iraqi Officials Discourage U.S. Pullout War Tensions Follow Bush to Commencement U.S. Military Deaths in Iraq at 3,386 Executive Summary: DOD Inspector General on Pre-Iraq War Intelligence Activities(2/9/2007) Unclassified National Intelligence Estimate Summary on Iraq (2/2/2007) Inspector General Report on Iraq Reconstruction (1/31/2007) Buy AP Photo Reprints BAGHDAD (AP) -- Seven U.S. soldiers and an Iraqi army interpreter came under attack Saturday morning during a patrol of a Sunni insurgent stronghold south of Baghdad, leaving five dead and three missing, the military said. Troops were searching for the three missing, using drone planes, jets and checkpoints throughout the area, according to the statement. Soldiers were also asking local leaders for information. After the pre-dawn attack near Mahmoudiya, a Sunni stronghold about 20 miles south of Baghdad, nearby units heard explosions and a drone plane later observed two burning vehicles, the statement said. Troops who arrived later found five of the soldiers dead. The other three members of the patrol were gone, according to the statement, from Maj. Gen. William Caldwell, the chief U.S. military spokesman in Iraq. The military refused to specify whether the Iraqi interpreter was among those killed or among the missing, citing security. "Make no mistake: We will never stop looking for our soldiers until their status is definitively determined, and we continue to pray for their safe return," Caldwell said. The attack occurred nearly a year after two American soldiers went missing following a June 16 attack in the same area, prompting a massive search. Their bodies were found tied together with a bomb between one victim's legs several days later. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. Copyright &copy;2006 The Jackson Sun. Users of this site agree to the
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/I/IMUS_PRODUCER_SHARPTON?SITE=TNJAC&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	AP News @ jacksonsun.com Welcome to The Jackson Sun &mdash; Jackson, TN May 12, 7:20 AM EDT Imus Producer: Sharpton a 'Race-Baiter' Sharpton Apologizes for Mormon Comments Sharpton: Imus Firing Not a Time to Celebrate Buy AP Photo Reprints NEW YORK (AP) -- Don Imus' former producer on Friday called Rev. Al Sharpton a "race-baiter" who was looking for attention when he led a campaign to fire the radio host, while Sharpton said Imus and his producer got what they deserved for making a racist, sexist remark on the air. Bernard McGuirk and Sharpton appeared together for a combative debate on Fox News Channel's "Hannity & Colmes" show. The producer was fired last month for his part in an exchange on the "Imus in the Morning" program in which the members of the Rutgers University women's basketball team were called "nappy-headed hos." MSNBC took Imus' show off the air on April 11 and CBS fired him from his syndicated radio program a day later for the slur. McGuirk, a 20-year producer and on-air jester for the show that originated on WFAN-AM in New York, called the team "hardcore hos" in the April 4 exchange with Imus. Sharpton held protests and lobbied both networks to fire Imus. McGuirk called Sharpton a "crude ... opportunist, a race-baiter" who campaigned against Imus to help his own career and raise his profile. While McGuirk acknowledged that "these words did hurt these girls," he added, "until you, Reverend Al, got involved, they probably never would have heard of it. They would have probably never, quote unquote, got scarred for life until you got involved for your own self-serving interests." Sharpton said he wasn't looking for more attention - "if you have any recollection at all, I had been in the papers all year," he said. He said Imus and McGuirk may have apologized for the remark, but "forgiveness is not the point. The question is the penalty." "Consumers have the right to say to advertisers, are your standards going to be where people are attacked based on your gender and race?" Sharpton said. McGuirk countered that Sharpton "terrorized these spineless, thumbsucking executives" into taking Imus off the air. In an earlier appearance on "Hannity & Colmes," he said the executives "were in a fetal position under their desks sucking their thumbs on their BlackBerrys, trying to coordinate their response." Sharpton responded: "What he is saying is we want to apologize and we want to decide what the penalty is." He said that most people wanted Imus fired, including a minister who arranged Imus' meeting with the Rutgers team, and many NBC employees. "Is Al Roker one of these guys hiding under the desk with a BlackBerry?" Sharpton asked. McGuirk said that Imus "made one small mistake. He ran a red light" and shouldn't have been fired. He asked Sharpton. "Who elected you the PC police chief? Who elected you to anything?" Imus has not spoken publicly since his dismissal, but his lawyer has said he intends to sue CBS for $120 million, and said that the network encouraged irreverent, off-color comments on the program. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. Copyright &copy;2006 The Jackson Sun. Users of this site agree to the
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/I/IMUS_PRODUCER_SHARPTON?SITE=TNJAC&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	AP News @ jacksonsun.com Welcome to The Jackson Sun &mdash; Jackson, TN May 12, 7:20 AM EDT Imus Producer: Sharpton a 'Race-Baiter' Sharpton Apologizes for Mormon Comments Sharpton: Imus Firing Not a Time to Celebrate Buy AP Photo Reprints NEW YORK (AP) -- Don Imus' former producer on Friday called Rev. Al Sharpton a "race-baiter" who was looking for attention when he led a campaign to fire the radio host, while Sharpton said Imus and his producer got what they deserved for making a racist, sexist remark on the air. Bernard McGuirk and Sharpton appeared together for a combative debate on Fox News Channel's "Hannity & Colmes" show. The producer was fired last month for his part in an exchange on the "Imus in the Morning" program in which the members of the Rutgers University women's basketball team were called "nappy-headed hos." MSNBC took Imus' show off the air on April 11 and CBS fired him from his syndicated radio program a day later for the slur. McGuirk, a 20-year producer and on-air jester for the show that originated on WFAN-AM in New York, called the team "hardcore hos" in the April 4 exchange with Imus. Sharpton held protests and lobbied both networks to fire Imus. McGuirk called Sharpton a "crude ... opportunist, a race-baiter" who campaigned against Imus to help his own career and raise his profile. While McGuirk acknowledged that "these words did hurt these girls," he added, "until you, Reverend Al, got involved, they probably never would have heard of it. They would have probably never, quote unquote, got scarred for life until you got involved for your own self-serving interests." Sharpton said he wasn't looking for more attention - "if you have any recollection at all, I had been in the papers all year," he said. He said Imus and McGuirk may have apologized for the remark, but "forgiveness is not the point. The question is the penalty." "Consumers have the right to say to advertisers, are your standards going to be where people are attacked based on your gender and race?" Sharpton said. McGuirk countered that Sharpton "terrorized these spineless, thumbsucking executives" into taking Imus off the air. In an earlier appearance on "Hannity & Colmes," he said the executives "were in a fetal position under their desks sucking their thumbs on their BlackBerrys, trying to coordinate their response." Sharpton responded: "What he is saying is we want to apologize and we want to decide what the penalty is." He said that most people wanted Imus fired, including a minister who arranged Imus' meeting with the Rutgers team, and many NBC employees. "Is Al Roker one of these guys hiding under the desk with a BlackBerry?" Sharpton asked. McGuirk said that Imus "made one small mistake. He ran a red light" and shouldn't have been fired. He asked Sharpton. "Who elected you the PC police chief? Who elected you to anything?" Imus has not spoken publicly since his dismissal, but his lawyer has said he intends to sue CBS for $120 million, and said that the network encouraged irreverent, off-color comments on the program. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. Copyright &copy;2006 The Jackson Sun. Users of this site agree to the
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/I/ITALY_US_TERRORISM?SITE=TNJAC&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	AP News @ jacksonsun.com Welcome to The Jackson Sun &mdash; Jackson, TN May 12, 6:55 AM EDT U.S., Europe Seek Passenger Data Deal U.S., Europe Seek Passenger Data Deal Rally to Protest Unmarried Couples Bill U.S. Soldier on Trial in Death in Iraq Mexico Extradites Italian in 1996 Fire Italy Probes 8 Deaths at Coronary Unit Criminal complaint against Eljvir Duka in Fort Dix plot case Hearing Transcript: Waleed Mohammed bin Attash Hearing Transcript: Khalid Sheikh Mohammed Hearing Transcript Abu Faraj al-Libi Hearing Transcript: Ramzi Binalshibh Declassified Report: Iraq 'Cause Celebre' for Extremists U.S., Europe Seek Passenger Data Deal Terror Suspect Testifies, It Goes Badly U.S. Pushing Europe for Flight Data Deal Bush's Privacy Board Not Doing Its Job? British Police Make 4 Terror Arrests Buy AP Photo Reprints VENICE, Italy (AP) -- The U.S. Homeland Security secretary met with top European security officials Saturday to work out the details of a new agreement to share airline passenger data for terrorism investigations. Secretary Michael Chertoff also was expected to discuss changes to the U.S. visa-waiver program during the meeting with security officials from Britain, France, Germany, Italy, Spain and Poland. A deal on the airline data must be reached by July to avoid problems for both airlines and U.S.-bound passengers. European governments are worried about protecting their strict privacy laws, a legacy of the continent's history with totalitarian and authoritarian regimes. The two sides disagree on how long U.S. authorities can use data, when it should be destroyed and which agencies should have access to the information. The United States also wants the authority to pull data directly from airline computers, but European countries insist airlines must transmit the information. Chertoff travels to Brussels, Belgium, on Monday where he will address the EU Parliament. Citizens from 15 of the 27 EU nations can enter the United States without applying for a travel visa. U.S. officials say Greece and most of the newer EU members still fail to meet criteria for joining the visa-waiver program. The EU allows Americans to travel to all its member countries without visas and has long insisted on full reciprocity. Poland is especially adamant, arguing that it should be admitted in recognition of its contributions to U.S. operations in Iraq and Afghanistan. The United States rejects 22 percent of Polish visa applicants - a rate that far exceeds the 3 percent benchmark required for entry into the waiver program. Legislation pending in the Congress would allow the program to admit new countries, while requiring all participating countries to impose closer scrutiny of their passports to ensure they are not lost, stolen or easily counterfeited. President Bush has said he favors adding countries to the visa-waiver list. All but four countries now on the list are European. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. Copyright &copy;2006 The Jackson Sun. Users of this site agree to the
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/I/ITALY_US_TERRORISM?SITE=TNJAC&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	AP News @ jacksonsun.com Welcome to The Jackson Sun &mdash; Jackson, TN May 12, 6:55 AM EDT U.S., Europe Seek Passenger Data Deal U.S., Europe Seek Passenger Data Deal Rally to Protest Unmarried Couples Bill U.S. Soldier on Trial in Death in Iraq Mexico Extradites Italian in 1996 Fire Italy Probes 8 Deaths at Coronary Unit Criminal complaint against Eljvir Duka in Fort Dix plot case Hearing Transcript: Waleed Mohammed bin Attash Hearing Transcript: Khalid Sheikh Mohammed Hearing Transcript Abu Faraj al-Libi Hearing Transcript: Ramzi Binalshibh Declassified Report: Iraq 'Cause Celebre' for Extremists U.S., Europe Seek Passenger Data Deal Terror Suspect Testifies, It Goes Badly U.S. Pushing Europe for Flight Data Deal Bush's Privacy Board Not Doing Its Job? British Police Make 4 Terror Arrests Buy AP Photo Reprints VENICE, Italy (AP) -- The U.S. Homeland Security secretary met with top European security officials Saturday to work out the details of a new agreement to share airline passenger data for terrorism investigations. Secretary Michael Chertoff also was expected to discuss changes to the U.S. visa-waiver program during the meeting with security officials from Britain, France, Germany, Italy, Spain and Poland. A deal on the airline data must be reached by July to avoid problems for both airlines and U.S.-bound passengers. European governments are worried about protecting their strict privacy laws, a legacy of the continent's history with totalitarian and authoritarian regimes. The two sides disagree on how long U.S. authorities can use data, when it should be destroyed and which agencies should have access to the information. The United States also wants the authority to pull data directly from airline computers, but European countries insist airlines must transmit the information. Chertoff travels to Brussels, Belgium, on Monday where he will address the EU Parliament. Citizens from 15 of the 27 EU nations can enter the United States without applying for a travel visa. U.S. officials say Greece and most of the newer EU members still fail to meet criteria for joining the visa-waiver program. The EU allows Americans to travel to all its member countries without visas and has long insisted on full reciprocity. Poland is especially adamant, arguing that it should be admitted in recognition of its contributions to U.S. operations in Iraq and Afghanistan. The United States rejects 22 percent of Polish visa applicants - a rate that far exceeds the 3 percent benchmark required for entry into the waiver program. Legislation pending in the Congress would allow the program to admit new countries, while requiring all participating countries to impose closer scrutiny of their passports to ensure they are not lost, stolen or easily counterfeited. President Bush has said he favors adding countries to the visa-waiver list. All but four countries now on the list are European. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. Copyright &copy;2006 The Jackson Sun. Users of this site agree to the
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/W/WILDFIRES?SITE=NYONE&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	The Daily Star - Online Edition The Daily Star - Online Edition May 15, 1:06 PM EDT Hundreds more flee massive Fla. wildfire Winds Fuel Multistate Wildfire Photos: Wildfires Across the U.S. Photos: Wildfire Burns in California Charges Against Crew Boss Hundreds more flee massive Fla. wildfire 2 kids charged in Ga. wildfires Ga. wildfire called 'a long-term battle' Buy AP Photo Reprints LAKE CITY, Fla. (AP) -- Authorities evacuated hundreds of homes after a massive wildfire along the Georgia-Florida border jumped a containment line overnight, authorities said Tuesday. Firefighters pushed the flames back to the containment line, but dry weather and 15 mph wind in north Florida was expected to further hinder their work. "If we can just get through today," said Russell Hubright, a U.S. Forest Service spokesman. Between 250 and 500 homes west of U.S. 441 had to be evacuated for a second time when the fire line was breached, Florida Highway Patrol Lt. Michael Burroughs said. An additional 570 people who were ordered out of homes east of the roadway were still waiting to return. The wildfire had raced through the Okefenokee Swamp in southeast Georgia and into northern Florida after being started by lightning more than a week ago. By Tuesday, it had burned 109,000 acres in Florida and 139,813 acres of swampland in Georgia - nearly 390 square miles in all. Flames jumped a containment line at the fire's western edge, but firefighters used bulldozers and water-dropping helicopters to extinguish them, said John Speaks, deputy incident commander with the forest service. The fire was about 1 1/2 miles from U.S. 441. On the western edge of the Okefenokee Swamp in Georgia, Fargo residents were told to stay alert as wind forecast at up to 20 mph pushed the blaze against fire breaks plowed between the swamp and the city of 380 people. "Everybody's being told not to let their guard down, don't unpack," said Laura Polant, a fire information officer in Fargo. "Residents are still being told to be prepared to leave, because the call can come at any time." In Florida, the blaze was 50 percent contained Tuesday. The smoke had lifted enough to open Interstates 10 and 75 to traffic, but drivers were warned that periodic closures were still possible. Another large wildfire, in northeastern Minnesota and Ontario, could be brought under control by the end of the week, officials said. No one has been seriously hurt in the fire, which has burned 117 square miles of Minnesota and Canada, but many cabins and smaller structures - more than 100 in all - have been destroyed. Associated Press writers Russ Bynum in Savannah, Ga., and Jennifer Kay in Miami contributed to this report. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. To search, choose a collection, then enter words and phrases, separated by commas (e.g., search, jet engines, basketball). The Daily Star.com is owned and operated by The Daily Star. Copyright (c) 1998-2006 The Daily Star. All rights reserved The Daily Star is a division of The Dow Jones Community Newspaper Group
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/W/WILDFIRES?SITE=NYONE&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	The Daily Star - Online Edition The Daily Star - Online Edition May 15, 1:06 PM EDT Hundreds more flee massive Fla. wildfire Winds Fuel Multistate Wildfire Photos: Wildfires Across the U.S. Photos: Wildfire Burns in California Charges Against Crew Boss Hundreds more flee massive Fla. wildfire 2 kids charged in Ga. wildfires Ga. wildfire called 'a long-term battle' Buy AP Photo Reprints LAKE CITY, Fla. (AP) -- Authorities evacuated hundreds of homes after a massive wildfire along the Georgia-Florida border jumped a containment line overnight, authorities said Tuesday. Firefighters pushed the flames back to the containment line, but dry weather and 15 mph wind in north Florida was expected to further hinder their work. "If we can just get through today," said Russell Hubright, a U.S. Forest Service spokesman. Between 250 and 500 homes west of U.S. 441 had to be evacuated for a second time when the fire line was breached, Florida Highway Patrol Lt. Michael Burroughs said. An additional 570 people who were ordered out of homes east of the roadway were still waiting to return. The wildfire had raced through the Okefenokee Swamp in southeast Georgia and into northern Florida after being started by lightning more than a week ago. By Tuesday, it had burned 109,000 acres in Florida and 139,813 acres of swampland in Georgia - nearly 390 square miles in all. Flames jumped a containment line at the fire's western edge, but firefighters used bulldozers and water-dropping helicopters to extinguish them, said John Speaks, deputy incident commander with the forest service. The fire was about 1 1/2 miles from U.S. 441. On the western edge of the Okefenokee Swamp in Georgia, Fargo residents were told to stay alert as wind forecast at up to 20 mph pushed the blaze against fire breaks plowed between the swamp and the city of 380 people. "Everybody's being told not to let their guard down, don't unpack," said Laura Polant, a fire information officer in Fargo. "Residents are still being told to be prepared to leave, because the call can come at any time." In Florida, the blaze was 50 percent contained Tuesday. The smoke had lifted enough to open Interstates 10 and 75 to traffic, but drivers were warned that periodic closures were still possible. Another large wildfire, in northeastern Minnesota and Ontario, could be brought under control by the end of the week, officials said. No one has been seriously hurt in the fire, which has burned 117 square miles of Minnesota and Canada, but many cabins and smaller structures - more than 100 in all - have been destroyed. Associated Press writers Russ Bynum in Savannah, Ga., and Jennifer Kay in Miami contributed to this report. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. To search, choose a collection, then enter words and phrases, separated by commas (e.g., search, jet engines, basketball). The Daily Star.com is owned and operated by The Daily Star. Copyright (c) 1998-2006 The Daily Star. All rights reserved The Daily Star is a division of The Dow Jones Community Newspaper Group
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/B/BBA_YANKEES_CLEMENS?SITE=NYONE&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	The Daily Star - Online Edition The Daily Star - Online Edition May 15, 4:30 PM EDT Yankees' Clemens may pitch by end of May Bonds and BALCO Timeline Yankees' Clemens may pitch by end of May Dice-K throws complete game for Red Sox Maddux goes distance in Padres win Cardinals break out, beat Dodgers 8-4 Athletics' Cust on rise as power hitter Buy AP Photo Reprints TAMPA, Fla. (AP) -- Roger Clemens could be ready to pitch for the New York Yankees by the end of May. Clemens threw 71 pitches during his first bullpen session on Tuesday at the Yankees' minor league complex. Barring any problems, Clemens is scheduled to make his first minor league start Friday for Class-A Tampa. He didn't rule out joining the Yankees after two starts in the minors, which would line up him to face Toronto May 28. The next time through the rotation would have Clemens pitching against AL East-leading Boston on June 2 or 3. "I think anything is possible," Clemens said. "If I come out of the first two decent, they'll pull me aside and we'll all visit about that for sure. I don't think it's out of the question." Clemens, who agreed to a $28,000,022, one-year contract on May 6, worked out last week in Lexington, Ky., where his son plays for a Houston Astros minor league club. "I think I'm right where I need to be to get this under way on Friday," Clemens said at a Legends Field news conference. "Endurance and conditioning, I think I'm very close. I've got to get in a game as quick as possible and I'll have a good telltale sign of what happens on Saturday morning." When he rejoined the Astros last year, Clemens agreed to a contract on May 31, made three minor league starts and returned to the majors on June 22. Clemens will likely throw 45- to 60-pitches Friday. He will also work in the bullpen afterward to get his pitch count up to around 90. "I'm getting closer," Clemens said. "I want to be able to perform like I'm supposed to. Hold up my end of the deal. That's the pressure that comes along with it. I have the same question you all do, is my body going to hold up? I can't answer that. All I can do is do the work and get ready for that." Clemens threw his split-finger, slider and two-seam and four-seam fastballs Tuesday. "He was on the money," said Yankees minor leaguer James LaSala, who caught Clemens. "Great stuff. Great command." Clemens also discussed mechanics with several pitchers, including promising rookie right-hander Phil Hughes, Jeff Karstens and minor leaguer Joba Chamberlain, while working on the mound. "I enjoy teaching," Clemens said. "I enjoy working with them, talking to them and trying to answer their questions. I give them credit, they've asked some really detailed questions." The seven-time Cy Young Award winner started his workout by jogging through the area around the complex. He also took part in fielding drills during his hour on the field. Clemens said he has no idea if this will be final season. "How can I answer that?" Clemens said with a smile. "I'm doing so great at retirement. I've been telling you for what, how many years now? I wish I knew that." Notes:@ Clemens said he has talked with Yankees owner George Steinbrenner, who lives in Tampa, but hadn't seen the Boss in person. ... Clemens said he has not been contacted by representatives of the Mitchell commission, which is investigating potential steroids use in baseball. "I don't know anything about that," Clemens said. ... Hughes, on the 15-day disabled list with a hamstring injury, has started a running program. He hasn't reached the point yet to where he can throw off a half-mound. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. To search, choose a collection, then enter words and phrases, separated by commas (e.g., search, jet engines, basketball). The Daily Star.com is owned and operated by The Daily Star. Copyright (c) 1998-2006 The Daily Star. All rights reserved The Daily Star is a division of The Dow Jones Community Newspaper Group
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/B/BBA_YANKEES_CLEMENS?SITE=NYONE&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	The Daily Star - Online Edition The Daily Star - Online Edition May 15, 4:30 PM EDT Yankees' Clemens may pitch by end of May Bonds and BALCO Timeline Yankees' Clemens may pitch by end of May Dice-K throws complete game for Red Sox Maddux goes distance in Padres win Cardinals break out, beat Dodgers 8-4 Athletics' Cust on rise as power hitter Buy AP Photo Reprints TAMPA, Fla. (AP) -- Roger Clemens could be ready to pitch for the New York Yankees by the end of May. Clemens threw 71 pitches during his first bullpen session on Tuesday at the Yankees' minor league complex. Barring any problems, Clemens is scheduled to make his first minor league start Friday for Class-A Tampa. He didn't rule out joining the Yankees after two starts in the minors, which would line up him to face Toronto May 28. The next time through the rotation would have Clemens pitching against AL East-leading Boston on June 2 or 3. "I think anything is possible," Clemens said. "If I come out of the first two decent, they'll pull me aside and we'll all visit about that for sure. I don't think it's out of the question." Clemens, who agreed to a $28,000,022, one-year contract on May 6, worked out last week in Lexington, Ky., where his son plays for a Houston Astros minor league club. "I think I'm right where I need to be to get this under way on Friday," Clemens said at a Legends Field news conference. "Endurance and conditioning, I think I'm very close. I've got to get in a game as quick as possible and I'll have a good telltale sign of what happens on Saturday morning." When he rejoined the Astros last year, Clemens agreed to a contract on May 31, made three minor league starts and returned to the majors on June 22. Clemens will likely throw 45- to 60-pitches Friday. He will also work in the bullpen afterward to get his pitch count up to around 90. "I'm getting closer," Clemens said. "I want to be able to perform like I'm supposed to. Hold up my end of the deal. That's the pressure that comes along with it. I have the same question you all do, is my body going to hold up? I can't answer that. All I can do is do the work and get ready for that." Clemens threw his split-finger, slider and two-seam and four-seam fastballs Tuesday. "He was on the money," said Yankees minor leaguer James LaSala, who caught Clemens. "Great stuff. Great command." Clemens also discussed mechanics with several pitchers, including promising rookie right-hander Phil Hughes, Jeff Karstens and minor leaguer Joba Chamberlain, while working on the mound. "I enjoy teaching," Clemens said. "I enjoy working with them, talking to them and trying to answer their questions. I give them credit, they've asked some really detailed questions." The seven-time Cy Young Award winner started his workout by jogging through the area around the complex. He also took part in fielding drills during his hour on the field. Clemens said he has no idea if this will be final season. "How can I answer that?" Clemens said with a smile. "I'm doing so great at retirement. I've been telling you for what, how many years now? I wish I knew that." Notes:@ Clemens said he has talked with Yankees owner George Steinbrenner, who lives in Tampa, but hadn't seen the Boss in person. ... Clemens said he has not been contacted by representatives of the Mitchell commission, which is investigating potential steroids use in baseball. "I don't know anything about that," Clemens said. ... Hughes, on the 15-day disabled list with a hamstring injury, has started a running program. He hasn't reached the point yet to where he can throw off a half-mound. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. To search, choose a collection, then enter words and phrases, separated by commas (e.g., search, jet engines, basketball). The Daily Star.com is owned and operated by The Daily Star. Copyright (c) 1998-2006 The Daily Star. All rights reserved The Daily Star is a division of The Dow Jones Community Newspaper Group
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/B/BORDER_BIOMETRICS?SITE=NYONE&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	The Daily Star - Online Edition The Daily Star - Online Edition May 15, 4:42 PM EDT AP IMPACT: Laser visas are rarely used Border Inspectors Rarely Scan New Visas Buy AP Photo Reprints Graphic of "laser visas" designed for use on the U.S.-Mexico border SAN DIEGO (AP) -- The face- and fingerprint-matching technology that has been touted over the past decade as a sophisticated new way to stop terrorists and illegal immigrants from entering the country through Mexico has one major drawback: U.S. border inspectors almost never use it. In fact, the necessary equipment is not even installed in vehicle lanes along the border. Government officials told The Associated Press that checking more people would create too big a backup at the border, where hours-long traffic jams are already common. Some members of Congress who voted for the system in 1996 are complaining they were misled. They said the intent was to use biometrics - or a person's unique physical traits - to screen everyone. "Congress would not have gone to the trouble of requiring biometric features on the border crossing card if it knew the administration would not require that those features be read by scanners," said Rep. Lamar Smith, R-Texas, who wrote the legislation. The U.S. government has spent tens of millions of dollars issuing visa cards digitally embedded with the holder's photo and fingerprints. Holders of the cards come across the border tens of millions of times each year. But on average, in only about 2 percent of those cases are the cardholders screened with the biometric technology to verify their identities and check law-enforcement records, said Paul Morris, Customs and Border Protection's executive director of admissibility requirements and migration control. The checks are done consistently only on the small portion of cardholders who seek permission to travel beyond the border region. "As the technology becomes available, we can expand the current level of biometric matching," Morris said. "There is not a technology solution currently available that will not cause delays that are well beyond the acceptable levels." Beginning in 1998, the high-tech "laser visas" have been issued to 9.1 million Mexicans for short visits to the United States. The laser visas, which look like driver's licenses, have a 1.4-inch optical memory stripe holding personal information such as name, gender and birth date. The stripe also stores the owner's digitized facial photo and two fingerprints. Cardholders coming across the border may be asked to press their fingers against a glass and pose for a photo, while their card pulls up their biometric file - a process that takes an extra 30 seconds or so per person. The photo and fingerprints can also be instantly checked against criminal and terrorist watch lists. The laser visas entitle Mexicans to travel 25 miles from the border - slightly farther in Arizona - for 30 days. Cardholders can also apply for a permit to travel anywhere in the U.S. for up to six months. Border inspectors routinely swipe the laser visas through a machine to retrieve the basic personal information and to call up a photo. But, with some exceptions, the inspectors use the facial- and fingerprint-matching technology only for those applying at the border for one of the six-month permits, Morris said. That practice means that most of those who are checked are not selected at random; they know they are going to be scanned when they come across. The government contract for laser visas was worth $28.6 million from 2000 to 2006, and Homeland Security awarded a five-year renewal in March to General Dynamics Corp. worth $28.5 million, according to Homeland Security. That price tag excludes the cost of opening new consulates to handle the rush of applicants. The State Department established consulates across the border from Laredo, Texas, and Nogales, Ariz. In Tijuana, Mexico, the consulate took over an old gymnasium across town. The 1996 law said anyone presenting a border crossing card "is not permitted to cross over the border into the U.S. unless the biometric identifier contained on the card matches the appropriate biometric characteristics of the alien." But Sandra Raynes, consular officer at the U.S. consulate in Tijuana, said: "If they were to check everyone, you'd have lines all the way down to Cabo San Lucas," about 1,100 miles south of San Diego. U.S. officials said biometrics are only part of its effort to stem illegal crossings. An inspector's wits and agency intelligence are also key, they said. Biometrics "is one tool in our toolbox," said Kelly Klundt, a Customs and Border Protection spokeswoman. Also, the laminated cards have reduced fraud because they are difficult to counterfeit, officials said. Older visas looked like crumpled library cards, some dating to the 1950s. Authorities said women in their 60s used cards with photographs of teenage girls because the cards had no expiration dates. Former Rep. Jim Kolbe, a Republican who left Congress in January after 22 years representing a district on the Arizona border, said lawmakers expected checks on all cardholders, though there was no timetable. "We definitely intended to go further with it than we have," he said. "Ten years later, it seems incredible that we've only gotten this far with it." The 14 pedestrian booths at San Ysidro, the nation's busiest border crossing by far, are equipped with fingerprint glass but no cameras. But that glass is not used on the 30,000 people who walk though daily. There is neither type of equipment in the 24 vehicle lanes, which handle about 35,000 cars and 250 buses a day. Applicants for the six-month permits are asked to pull aside into a small parking lot, get out and walk up to a booth, where they are fingerprinted and photographed for verification. Initially, border crossings did not even have equipment to lift personal information off the cards, let alone the biometric data. Jeffrey Davidow, U.S. ambassador to Mexico from 1998 to 2001, recalls members of Congress visiting the border to see the machines, which were never used when the lawmakers were gone. "I'd tell them that it was all show, that it doesn't work, that the card is not doing what it's supposed to do," Davidow said. He said his warnings elicited shrugs. There were also technological setbacks. Equipment to verify photos and fingerprints often failed to read through sweat, scratches and other wallet "crud," according to an internal Homeland Security report. A test at five Texas crossings in the spring of 2004 showed that 731 out of 1,740 cards, or 42 percent, were unreadable, according to the report, which was provided to The Associated Press by someone who insisted on anonymity because the government did not authorize its release. Homeland Security officials did not have more recent figures on how many cards are correctly read. But they said technical problems have been resolved. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. To search, choose a collection, then enter words and phrases, separated by commas (e.g., search, jet engines, basketball). The Daily Star.com is owned and operated by The Daily Star. Copyright (c) 1998-2006 The Daily Star. All rights reserved The Daily Star is a division of The Dow Jones Community Newspaper Group
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/B/BORDER_BIOMETRICS?SITE=NYONE&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	The Daily Star - Online Edition The Daily Star - Online Edition May 15, 4:42 PM EDT AP IMPACT: Laser visas are rarely used Border Inspectors Rarely Scan New Visas Buy AP Photo Reprints Graphic of "laser visas" designed for use on the U.S.-Mexico border SAN DIEGO (AP) -- The face- and fingerprint-matching technology that has been touted over the past decade as a sophisticated new way to stop terrorists and illegal immigrants from entering the country through Mexico has one major drawback: U.S. border inspectors almost never use it. In fact, the necessary equipment is not even installed in vehicle lanes along the border. Government officials told The Associated Press that checking more people would create too big a backup at the border, where hours-long traffic jams are already common. Some members of Congress who voted for the system in 1996 are complaining they were misled. They said the intent was to use biometrics - or a person's unique physical traits - to screen everyone. "Congress would not have gone to the trouble of requiring biometric features on the border crossing card if it knew the administration would not require that those features be read by scanners," said Rep. Lamar Smith, R-Texas, who wrote the legislation. The U.S. government has spent tens of millions of dollars issuing visa cards digitally embedded with the holder's photo and fingerprints. Holders of the cards come across the border tens of millions of times each year. But on average, in only about 2 percent of those cases are the cardholders screened with the biometric technology to verify their identities and check law-enforcement records, said Paul Morris, Customs and Border Protection's executive director of admissibility requirements and migration control. The checks are done consistently only on the small portion of cardholders who seek permission to travel beyond the border region. "As the technology becomes available, we can expand the current level of biometric matching," Morris said. "There is not a technology solution currently available that will not cause delays that are well beyond the acceptable levels." Beginning in 1998, the high-tech "laser visas" have been issued to 9.1 million Mexicans for short visits to the United States. The laser visas, which look like driver's licenses, have a 1.4-inch optical memory stripe holding personal information such as name, gender and birth date. The stripe also stores the owner's digitized facial photo and two fingerprints. Cardholders coming across the border may be asked to press their fingers against a glass and pose for a photo, while their card pulls up their biometric file - a process that takes an extra 30 seconds or so per person. The photo and fingerprints can also be instantly checked against criminal and terrorist watch lists. The laser visas entitle Mexicans to travel 25 miles from the border - slightly farther in Arizona - for 30 days. Cardholders can also apply for a permit to travel anywhere in the U.S. for up to six months. Border inspectors routinely swipe the laser visas through a machine to retrieve the basic personal information and to call up a photo. But, with some exceptions, the inspectors use the facial- and fingerprint-matching technology only for those applying at the border for one of the six-month permits, Morris said. That practice means that most of those who are checked are not selected at random; they know they are going to be scanned when they come across. The government contract for laser visas was worth $28.6 million from 2000 to 2006, and Homeland Security awarded a five-year renewal in March to General Dynamics Corp. worth $28.5 million, according to Homeland Security. That price tag excludes the cost of opening new consulates to handle the rush of applicants. The State Department established consulates across the border from Laredo, Texas, and Nogales, Ariz. In Tijuana, Mexico, the consulate took over an old gymnasium across town. The 1996 law said anyone presenting a border crossing card "is not permitted to cross over the border into the U.S. unless the biometric identifier contained on the card matches the appropriate biometric characteristics of the alien." But Sandra Raynes, consular officer at the U.S. consulate in Tijuana, said: "If they were to check everyone, you'd have lines all the way down to Cabo San Lucas," about 1,100 miles south of San Diego. U.S. officials said biometrics are only part of its effort to stem illegal crossings. An inspector's wits and agency intelligence are also key, they said. Biometrics "is one tool in our toolbox," said Kelly Klundt, a Customs and Border Protection spokeswoman. Also, the laminated cards have reduced fraud because they are difficult to counterfeit, officials said. Older visas looked like crumpled library cards, some dating to the 1950s. Authorities said women in their 60s used cards with photographs of teenage girls because the cards had no expiration dates. Former Rep. Jim Kolbe, a Republican who left Congress in January after 22 years representing a district on the Arizona border, said lawmakers expected checks on all cardholders, though there was no timetable. "We definitely intended to go further with it than we have," he said. "Ten years later, it seems incredible that we've only gotten this far with it." The 14 pedestrian booths at San Ysidro, the nation's busiest border crossing by far, are equipped with fingerprint glass but no cameras. But that glass is not used on the 30,000 people who walk though daily. There is neither type of equipment in the 24 vehicle lanes, which handle about 35,000 cars and 250 buses a day. Applicants for the six-month permits are asked to pull aside into a small parking lot, get out and walk up to a booth, where they are fingerprinted and photographed for verification. Initially, border crossings did not even have equipment to lift personal information off the cards, let alone the biometric data. Jeffrey Davidow, U.S. ambassador to Mexico from 1998 to 2001, recalls members of Congress visiting the border to see the machines, which were never used when the lawmakers were gone. "I'd tell them that it was all show, that it doesn't work, that the card is not doing what it's supposed to do," Davidow said. He said his warnings elicited shrugs. There were also technological setbacks. Equipment to verify photos and fingerprints often failed to read through sweat, scratches and other wallet "crud," according to an internal Homeland Security report. A test at five Texas crossings in the spring of 2004 showed that 731 out of 1,740 cards, or 42 percent, were unreadable, according to the report, which was provided to The Associated Press by someone who insisted on anonymity because the government did not authorize its release. Homeland Security officials did not have more recent figures on how many cards are correctly read. But they said technical problems have been resolved. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. To search, choose a collection, then enter words and phrases, separated by commas (e.g., search, jet engines, basketball). The Daily Star.com is owned and operated by The Daily Star. Copyright (c) 1998-2006 The Daily Star. All rights reserved The Daily Star is a division of The Dow Jones Community Newspaper Group
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/P/PORTUGAL_MISSING_GIRL?SITE=NYONE&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	The Daily Star - Online Edition The Daily Star - Online Edition May 15, 4:28 PM EDT Suspect freed in girl's disappearance Man Investigated in Missing Girl Case Suspect freed in girl's disappearance Buy AP Photo Reprints LISBON, Portugal (AP) -- Portuguese police released a suspect they questioned about a missing British girl because there was not enough evidence to file charges against him, an official said Tuesday. Detectives searched five houses Monday as part of their investigation of the 33-year-old man, identified in media reports as British, and seized some of his belongings, said inspector Olegario de Sousa. Detectives also questioned two other people as part of the same inquiry into 4-year-old Madeleine McCann's disappearance in southern Portugal, he said. The girl vanished May 3 after her parents left her, and her brother and sister, both aged 2, alone while they went to a nearby restaurant within their hotel complex in Portugal's Algarve region, a popular European tourist destination. The suspect lives near the hotel where the girl disappeared, De Sousa said. He declined to give the man's name or nationality, citing Portuguese secrecy laws. The man's seized belongings are being examined for possible evidence, he said. "We hope they throw more light on the case," De Sousa said. Police placed the man under formal investigation. In Portuguese law, opening a formal investigation is a first step toward possibly bringing formal charges. The legal measure is designed to safeguard a citizen's constitutional rights. It grants the person in question access to potential evidence and allows the person to mount a legal defense. On Monday, police searched a villa where local media say the suspect lived with his British mother. They took away computers and cellular phones, Portugal's national news agency Lusa said. Police reportedly drained the villa's pool. The villa is about 100 yards from the hotel where Madeleine and her family, from central England, were staying. Portuguese media said the suspect had mingled with journalists outside the hotel in the days following the girl's disappearance and offered to act as an interpreter. He reportedly speaks English and Portuguese fluently. A British journalist told Sky News she had told local police the man was behaving suspiciously and had encouraged them to follow leads suggesting the girl had been kidnapped and taken to Spain. Last week, police called off their ground search for Madeleine, whose parents are still at the hotel. British media have said that promised contributions to a reward fund total some $5.1 million, including reported donations from Harry Potter author J.K. Rowling, tycoon Sir Richard Branson and "American Idol" judge Simon Cowell. Also, celebrities including soccer star David Beckham have made public appeals for help in finding Madeleine. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. To search, choose a collection, then enter words and phrases, separated by commas (e.g., search, jet engines, basketball). The Daily Star.com is owned and operated by The Daily Star. Copyright (c) 1998-2006 The Daily Star. All rights reserved The Daily Star is a division of The Dow Jones Community Newspaper Group
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/P/PORTUGAL_MISSING_GIRL?SITE=NYONE&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	The Daily Star - Online Edition The Daily Star - Online Edition May 15, 4:28 PM EDT Suspect freed in girl's disappearance Man Investigated in Missing Girl Case Suspect freed in girl's disappearance Buy AP Photo Reprints LISBON, Portugal (AP) -- Portuguese police released a suspect they questioned about a missing British girl because there was not enough evidence to file charges against him, an official said Tuesday. Detectives searched five houses Monday as part of their investigation of the 33-year-old man, identified in media reports as British, and seized some of his belongings, said inspector Olegario de Sousa. Detectives also questioned two other people as part of the same inquiry into 4-year-old Madeleine McCann's disappearance in southern Portugal, he said. The girl vanished May 3 after her parents left her, and her brother and sister, both aged 2, alone while they went to a nearby restaurant within their hotel complex in Portugal's Algarve region, a popular European tourist destination. The suspect lives near the hotel where the girl disappeared, De Sousa said. He declined to give the man's name or nationality, citing Portuguese secrecy laws. The man's seized belongings are being examined for possible evidence, he said. "We hope they throw more light on the case," De Sousa said. Police placed the man under formal investigation. In Portuguese law, opening a formal investigation is a first step toward possibly bringing formal charges. The legal measure is designed to safeguard a citizen's constitutional rights. It grants the person in question access to potential evidence and allows the person to mount a legal defense. On Monday, police searched a villa where local media say the suspect lived with his British mother. They took away computers and cellular phones, Portugal's national news agency Lusa said. Police reportedly drained the villa's pool. The villa is about 100 yards from the hotel where Madeleine and her family, from central England, were staying. Portuguese media said the suspect had mingled with journalists outside the hotel in the days following the girl's disappearance and offered to act as an interpreter. He reportedly speaks English and Portuguese fluently. A British journalist told Sky News she had told local police the man was behaving suspiciously and had encouraged them to follow leads suggesting the girl had been kidnapped and taken to Spain. Last week, police called off their ground search for Madeleine, whose parents are still at the hotel. British media have said that promised contributions to a reward fund total some $5.1 million, including reported donations from Harry Potter author J.K. Rowling, tycoon Sir Richard Branson and "American Idol" judge Simon Cowell. Also, celebrities including soccer star David Beckham have made public appeals for help in finding Madeleine. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. To search, choose a collection, then enter words and phrases, separated by commas (e.g., search, jet engines, basketball). The Daily Star.com is owned and operated by The Daily Star. Copyright (c) 1998-2006 The Daily Star. All rights reserved The Daily Star is a division of The Dow Jones Community Newspaper Group
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/W/WALL_STREET?SITE=NYONE&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	The Daily Star - Online Edition The Daily Star - Online Edition May 15, 5:11 PM EDT Stocks close mixed on housing report By JOE BEL BRUNO AP Photo/Henny Ray Abrams Stocks close mixed on housing report Reuters Among Wall Street's Big Movers Wall St. awaits inflation, housing data Home Depot 1Q profit drops 29.5 percent Wal-Mart 1Q earnings rise 8 percent DaimlerChrysler 1st-quarter profit rises Nokia says market share will grow in 2Q Hershey cuts 2007 earnings estimate Toll Bros. to miss earnings projections Motorists unfazed by climbing gas prices Bush nominates two to Federal Reserve Reuters agrees to $17.2B Thomson buyout Limited selling most of Express White House: Options open on Wolfowitz Buy AP Photo Reprints NEW YORK (AP) -- Wall Street gave up a huge advance and closed mixed Tuesday after an unimpressive snapshot of the housing market unsettled investors. The Dow Jones industrials, which surpassed 13,400 early in the session, slipped back but still eked out a record close. Investors who initially bought enthusiastically following a tame reading on inflation decided to cash in some of their gains after the National Association of Homebuilders said its housing index dropped to 30 from 33 in April, indicating a deteriorating housing outlook. The stock market followed a months-long pattern of rising on upbeat economic data only to give back gains on the latest report of a decline in housing. The day's movement also followed the recent pattern of blue-chip stocks performing better than their smaller counterparts. "We've got a real dichotomy going on here," said Stephen Massocca, president of Pacific Growth Equities. "Big corporate America, the staid and stodgy companies, are doing well. They're going up today. Stocks that are riskier, stocks that are smaller, stocks in the emerging market vein or technology vein, those are being sold." The Dow had surged more than 130 points by midday trading, breezing past 13,400 after the inflation data raised hopes that the Federal Reserve might cut interest rates later this year. The Labor Department said prices paid by consumers rose less than expected in April, and indicated that inflation may be easing as the economy continues to cool. The consumer price index rose 0.4 percent after rising 0.6 percent in March, while core prices - which exclude food and energy - rose 0.2 percent after a 0.1 percent gain. The Dow rose 37.06, or 0.28 percent, to 13,383.84, after rising to a new trading high of 13,481.60. The modest climb nudged the blue-chip index to its 22nd record close this year. Broader indexes slipped. The Standard & Poor's 500 index fell 1.96, or 0.13 percent, at 1,501.19. The technology-dominated Nasdaq composite index fell 21.15, or 0.83 percent, to 2,525.29. "I think you've got certainly a slower economy, and companies and people aren't all that keen to spend on new technology," said Scott Wren, senior equity strategist at AG Edwards. "There's also a lot of competition in the market, so the Nasdaq is likely to lag a little." Since the Dow broke through 12,000 for the first time in October, it has become almost routine for the blue chip index to set new records. The overall market advance has also lifted the S&P 500 near its record close of 1,527.46, reached in the spring of 2000. However, the Nasdaq still remains well off its closing high of 5,048.62, also reached during the peak of the dot-com boom; the index was overinflated by investors rushing to buy any high-tech stock. Investors have been driven by optimism that the Fed is done with its campaign of rate hikes, and that it will soon start lowering rates. Still, when new data reminds them of the fragility of the housing markets, they tend to retrench as they did Tuesday. Bond prices finished lower after the mixed data. The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note rose to 4.71 percent from 4.69 percent late Monday. The dollar fell against other major currencies, while gold prices advanced. A barrel of light sweet crude rose 71 cents to $63.17 on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Concerns lingered in the commodities market about refinery problems and uncertainties over whether U.S. gasoline inventories can meet summer driving demand. Investors were mostly undeterred by disappointing first-quarter results from Dow components Home Depot Inc. and Wal-Mart Stores Inc. Both companies are considered to be barometers of consumer spending, and weaker sales were interpreted as another sign of a slowing economy that could also motivate the Fed to cut rates. Home Depot, the nation's largest home improvement chain, posted lower quarterly profit as a sluggish U.S. housing market dented sales. Sales at stores open at least a year, an important measure of how retailers fared, slumped 7.6 percent. Wal-Mart Stores, the world's largest retailer, missed Wall Street projections and warned second-quarter results might be disappointing. Last week, it reported April same-store sales were the weakest its history for April. Shares of Wal-Mart fell 22 cents to $47.62, while Home Depot shed 71 cents to $38.30. Lowe's Cos., the second-largest home improvement chain, fell 10 cents to $30.89. Reuters Group PLC agreed Tuesday to a $17.2 billion takeover by Thomson Corp. that would vault the combined entity ahead of Bloomberg to become the world's largest financial data and news provider. Shares of Reuters rose $2.72, or 3.8 percent, to $74.34; Thomson rose 16 cents to $42.16. Declining issues outnumbered advancers by about 3 to 2 on the New York Stock Exchange, where volume came to 1.64 billion shares, up from 1.39 billion Monday. The Russell 2000 index of smaller companies fell 8.15, or 0.99 percent, to 814.18. Overseas, Japan's Nikkei stock average closed down 0.93 percent. Britain's FTSE 100 gained 0.20 percent, Germany's DAX index rose 0.61 percent, and France's CAC-40 added 0.39 percent. New York Stock Exchange: &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. To search, choose a collection, then enter words and phrases, separated by commas (e.g., search, jet engines, basketball). The Daily Star.com is owned and operated by The Daily Star. Copyright (c) 1998-2006 The Daily Star. All rights reserved The Daily Star is a division of The Dow Jones Community Newspaper Group
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/W/WALL_STREET?SITE=NYONE&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	The Daily Star - Online Edition The Daily Star - Online Edition May 15, 5:11 PM EDT Stocks close mixed on housing report By JOE BEL BRUNO AP Photo/Henny Ray Abrams Stocks close mixed on housing report Reuters Among Wall Street's Big Movers Wall St. awaits inflation, housing data Home Depot 1Q profit drops 29.5 percent Wal-Mart 1Q earnings rise 8 percent DaimlerChrysler 1st-quarter profit rises Nokia says market share will grow in 2Q Hershey cuts 2007 earnings estimate Toll Bros. to miss earnings projections Motorists unfazed by climbing gas prices Bush nominates two to Federal Reserve Reuters agrees to $17.2B Thomson buyout Limited selling most of Express White House: Options open on Wolfowitz Buy AP Photo Reprints NEW YORK (AP) -- Wall Street gave up a huge advance and closed mixed Tuesday after an unimpressive snapshot of the housing market unsettled investors. The Dow Jones industrials, which surpassed 13,400 early in the session, slipped back but still eked out a record close. Investors who initially bought enthusiastically following a tame reading on inflation decided to cash in some of their gains after the National Association of Homebuilders said its housing index dropped to 30 from 33 in April, indicating a deteriorating housing outlook. The stock market followed a months-long pattern of rising on upbeat economic data only to give back gains on the latest report of a decline in housing. The day's movement also followed the recent pattern of blue-chip stocks performing better than their smaller counterparts. "We've got a real dichotomy going on here," said Stephen Massocca, president of Pacific Growth Equities. "Big corporate America, the staid and stodgy companies, are doing well. They're going up today. Stocks that are riskier, stocks that are smaller, stocks in the emerging market vein or technology vein, those are being sold." The Dow had surged more than 130 points by midday trading, breezing past 13,400 after the inflation data raised hopes that the Federal Reserve might cut interest rates later this year. The Labor Department said prices paid by consumers rose less than expected in April, and indicated that inflation may be easing as the economy continues to cool. The consumer price index rose 0.4 percent after rising 0.6 percent in March, while core prices - which exclude food and energy - rose 0.2 percent after a 0.1 percent gain. The Dow rose 37.06, or 0.28 percent, to 13,383.84, after rising to a new trading high of 13,481.60. The modest climb nudged the blue-chip index to its 22nd record close this year. Broader indexes slipped. The Standard & Poor's 500 index fell 1.96, or 0.13 percent, at 1,501.19. The technology-dominated Nasdaq composite index fell 21.15, or 0.83 percent, to 2,525.29. "I think you've got certainly a slower economy, and companies and people aren't all that keen to spend on new technology," said Scott Wren, senior equity strategist at AG Edwards. "There's also a lot of competition in the market, so the Nasdaq is likely to lag a little." Since the Dow broke through 12,000 for the first time in October, it has become almost routine for the blue chip index to set new records. The overall market advance has also lifted the S&P 500 near its record close of 1,527.46, reached in the spring of 2000. However, the Nasdaq still remains well off its closing high of 5,048.62, also reached during the peak of the dot-com boom; the index was overinflated by investors rushing to buy any high-tech stock. Investors have been driven by optimism that the Fed is done with its campaign of rate hikes, and that it will soon start lowering rates. Still, when new data reminds them of the fragility of the housing markets, they tend to retrench as they did Tuesday. Bond prices finished lower after the mixed data. The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note rose to 4.71 percent from 4.69 percent late Monday. The dollar fell against other major currencies, while gold prices advanced. A barrel of light sweet crude rose 71 cents to $63.17 on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Concerns lingered in the commodities market about refinery problems and uncertainties over whether U.S. gasoline inventories can meet summer driving demand. Investors were mostly undeterred by disappointing first-quarter results from Dow components Home Depot Inc. and Wal-Mart Stores Inc. Both companies are considered to be barometers of consumer spending, and weaker sales were interpreted as another sign of a slowing economy that could also motivate the Fed to cut rates. Home Depot, the nation's largest home improvement chain, posted lower quarterly profit as a sluggish U.S. housing market dented sales. Sales at stores open at least a year, an important measure of how retailers fared, slumped 7.6 percent. Wal-Mart Stores, the world's largest retailer, missed Wall Street projections and warned second-quarter results might be disappointing. Last week, it reported April same-store sales were the weakest its history for April. Shares of Wal-Mart fell 22 cents to $47.62, while Home Depot shed 71 cents to $38.30. Lowe's Cos., the second-largest home improvement chain, fell 10 cents to $30.89. Reuters Group PLC agreed Tuesday to a $17.2 billion takeover by Thomson Corp. that would vault the combined entity ahead of Bloomberg to become the world's largest financial data and news provider. Shares of Reuters rose $2.72, or 3.8 percent, to $74.34; Thomson rose 16 cents to $42.16. Declining issues outnumbered advancers by about 3 to 2 on the New York Stock Exchange, where volume came to 1.64 billion shares, up from 1.39 billion Monday. The Russell 2000 index of smaller companies fell 8.15, or 0.99 percent, to 814.18. Overseas, Japan's Nikkei stock average closed down 0.93 percent. Britain's FTSE 100 gained 0.20 percent, Germany's DAX index rose 0.61 percent, and France's CAC-40 added 0.39 percent. New York Stock Exchange: &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. To search, choose a collection, then enter words and phrases, separated by commas (e.g., search, jet engines, basketball). The Daily Star.com is owned and operated by The Daily Star. Copyright (c) 1998-2006 The Daily Star. All rights reserved The Daily Star is a division of The Dow Jones Community Newspaper Group
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/J/JERRY_FALWELL?SITE=NYONE&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	The Daily Star - Online Edition The Daily Star - Online Edition May 15, 5:02 PM EDT TV evangelist Jerry Falwell dies at 73 AP Photo/STEPHEN J. BOITANO Televangelist Rev. Jerry Falwell Dies at 73 Buy AP Photo Reprints Photos: Jerry Falwell (1933-2007) Falwell changed U.S. politics TV evangelist Jerry Falwell dies at 73 Comments on the death of Jerry Falwell Rev. Jerry Falwell Dies at 73 LYNCHBURG, Va. (AP) -- The Rev. Jerry Falwell, the folksy, small-town preacher who used the power of television to found the Moral Majority and turn the Christian right into a mighty force in American politics during the Reagan years, died Tuesday at 73. Falwell was discovered without a pulse in his office at Liberty University and pronounced dead at a hospital an hour later. Dr. Carl Moore, Falwell's physician, said he had a heart condition and presumably died of a heart rhythm abnormality. Driven into politics by the 1973 Supreme Court ruling that established the right to an abortion, Falwell founded the Moral Majority in 1979. One of the conservative lobbying group's greatest triumphs came just a year later, when Ronald Reagan was elected president. Falwell credited the Moral Majority with getting millions of conservative voters registered, aiding in Reagan's victory and giving Republicans control of the Senate. "I shudder to think where the country would be right now if the religious right had not evolved," he said when he stepped down as Moral Majority president in 1987. Fellow TV evangelist Pat Robertson, himself a one-time GOP candidate for president, declared Falwell "a tower of strength on many of the moral issues which have confronted our nation." The rise of Christian conservatism - and the Moral Majority's full-throated condemnation of homosexuality, abortion and pornography - made Falwell perhaps the most recognizable figure on the evangelical right, and one of the most controversial ones, too. Over the years, Falwell waged a landmark libel case against Hustler magazine founder Larry Flynt over a raunchy parody ad, and created a furor in 1999 when one of his publications suggested that the purse-carrying "Teletubbies" character Tinky Winky was gay. Matt Foreman, executive director of National Gay and Lesbian Task Force, extended condolences to those close to Falwell, but added: "Unfortunately, we will always remember him as a founder and leader of America's anti-gay industry, someone who exacerbated the nation's appalling response to the onslaught of the AIDS epidemic, someone who demonized and vilified us for political gain and someone who used religion to divide rather than unite our nation." The 1980s marked the religious conservative movement's high-water mark. In more recent years, Falwell had become a problematic figure for the GOP. His remarks a few days after Sept. 11, 2001, essentially blaming feminists, gays and liberals for bringing on the terrorist attacks drew a rebuke from the White House, and he apologized. Falwell's declining political star seemed apparent when he quietly led in and out of the Republican Party's 2004 national convention. Just four years earlier, he was invited to pray from the rostrum. The big, blue-eyed preacher with a booming voice started a fundamentalist church in an abandoned bottling plant in Lynchburg in 1956 with just 35 members. He built it into a religious empire that included the 22,000-member Thomas Road Baptist Church, the "Old Time Gospel Hour" carried on TV stations around the country and 7,700-student Liberty University, which Falwell founded in 1971 as Lynchburg Baptist College. From his living room, he broadcast his message of salvation and raised the donations that helped his ministry grow. "He was one of the first to come up with ways to use television to expand his ministry," said Robert Alley, a retired University of Richmond religion professor who studied and criticized Falwell's career. Falwell had once opposed mixing preaching with politics, but changed his views. The Moral Majority grew to 6.5 million members and raised $69 million as it supported conservative politicians and railed against abortion, homosexuality, pornography and bans on school prayer. Falwell became the face of the religious right, appearing on national magazine covers and on talk shows. In 1983, U.S. News & World Report named him one of 25 most influential people in America. "Dr. Falwell was a man of distinguished accomplishment who devoted his life to serving his faith and country," said Sen. John McCain, a GOP presidential contender who during the 2000 primaries referred to Falwell and Robertson as "agents of intolerance." McCain has since distanced himself from those comments. In 1984, Falwell sued Hustler for $45 million, charging that he was libeled by an liquor-ad parody that quoted him as saying he lost his virginity to his mother in an outhouse. A federal jury found the fake ad did not libel him, but awarded him $200,000 for emotional distress. The verdict was overturned in a landmark 1988 U.S. Supreme Court decision that held that even pornographic spoofs about a public figure enjoy First Amendment protection. With Falwell's high profile came frequent criticism, even from fellow ministers. The Rev. Billy Graham once rebuked him for political sermonizing on "non-moral issues." Falwell quit the Moral Majority in 1987, saying he was tired of being "a lightning rod" and wanted to devote his time to his ministry and Liberty University. But he remained outspoken and continued to draw criticism for his remarks. In 1999, he told an evangelical conference that the Antichrist was a male Jew who was probably already alive. Falwell later apologized for the remark but not for holding the belief. A month later, his National Liberty Journal warned parents that Tinky Winky, the children's TV character, was a gay role model and morally damaging to children. Falwell was re-energized after family values proved important in the 2004 presidential election. He formed the Faith and Values Coalition as the "21st Century resurrection of the Moral Majority," to seek anti-abortion judges, a constitutional amendment banning gay marriage and more conservative elected officials. In 1987, Falwell took over the PTL (Praise the Lord) ministry in South Carolina after the Rev. Jim Bakker got caught in a sex and money scandal. Falwell slid fully clothed down a theme park water slide after donors met his fundraising goal to help rescue the rival ministry. He gave it up seven months later after learning the depth of PTL's financial problems. Largely because of the sex scandals involving Bakker and fellow evangelist Jimmy Swaggart, donations to Falwell's ministry dropped from $135 million in 1986 to less than $100 million the following year. Hundreds of workers were laid off and viewers of his television show dwindled. Liberty University was $73 million in debt and on the verge of bankruptcy, and his "Old Time Gospel Hour" was $16 million in debt. By the mid-1990s, two local businessmen with long ties to Falwell began overseeing the finances and helped get companies to forgive debts or write them off. Falwell dreamed that Liberty would grow to 50,000 students and be to fundamentalist Christians what Notre Dame is to Roman Catholics and Brigham Young University is to Mormons. Falwell's father and his grandfather were militant atheists, he wrote in his autobiography. He said his father made a fortune off his businesses - including bootlegging during Prohibition. As a student, Falwell was a star athlete and a prankster who was barred from giving his high school valedictorian's speech after he was caught using counterfeit lunch tickets. He ran with a gang of juvenile delinquents before becoming a born-again Christian at 19. He turned down an offer to play professional baseball and transferred from Lynchburg College to Baptist Bible College in Springfield, Mo. "My heart was burning to serve Christ," he once said in an interview. "I knew nothing would ever be the same again." Falwell had made careful preparations for a transition of his leadership to his two sons, Jerry Falwell, Jr., now vice chancellor of Liberty University, and Jonathan Falwell, executive the pastor of Thomas Road Baptist Church. Falwell is survived by his wife, Macel, his two sons and a daughter, Jeannie Falwell Savas. Funeral arrangements were not immediately known. Former Massachusetts Gov. Mitt Romney, a Mormon whose own faith has become an issue during his run for the presidency, said Falwell "built and led a movement based on strong principles and strong faith," and "the legacy of his important work will continue through his many ministries where he put his faith into action." &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. To search, choose a collection, then enter words and phrases, separated by commas (e.g., search, jet engines, basketball). The Daily Star.com is owned and operated by The Daily Star. Copyright (c) 1998-2006 The Daily Star. All rights reserved The Daily Star is a division of The Dow Jones Community Newspaper Group
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/J/JERRY_FALWELL?SITE=NYONE&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	The Daily Star - Online Edition The Daily Star - Online Edition May 15, 5:02 PM EDT TV evangelist Jerry Falwell dies at 73 AP Photo/STEPHEN J. BOITANO Televangelist Rev. Jerry Falwell Dies at 73 Buy AP Photo Reprints Photos: Jerry Falwell (1933-2007) Falwell changed U.S. politics TV evangelist Jerry Falwell dies at 73 Comments on the death of Jerry Falwell Rev. Jerry Falwell Dies at 73 LYNCHBURG, Va. (AP) -- The Rev. Jerry Falwell, the folksy, small-town preacher who used the power of television to found the Moral Majority and turn the Christian right into a mighty force in American politics during the Reagan years, died Tuesday at 73. Falwell was discovered without a pulse in his office at Liberty University and pronounced dead at a hospital an hour later. Dr. Carl Moore, Falwell's physician, said he had a heart condition and presumably died of a heart rhythm abnormality. Driven into politics by the 1973 Supreme Court ruling that established the right to an abortion, Falwell founded the Moral Majority in 1979. One of the conservative lobbying group's greatest triumphs came just a year later, when Ronald Reagan was elected president. Falwell credited the Moral Majority with getting millions of conservative voters registered, aiding in Reagan's victory and giving Republicans control of the Senate. "I shudder to think where the country would be right now if the religious right had not evolved," he said when he stepped down as Moral Majority president in 1987. Fellow TV evangelist Pat Robertson, himself a one-time GOP candidate for president, declared Falwell "a tower of strength on many of the moral issues which have confronted our nation." The rise of Christian conservatism - and the Moral Majority's full-throated condemnation of homosexuality, abortion and pornography - made Falwell perhaps the most recognizable figure on the evangelical right, and one of the most controversial ones, too. Over the years, Falwell waged a landmark libel case against Hustler magazine founder Larry Flynt over a raunchy parody ad, and created a furor in 1999 when one of his publications suggested that the purse-carrying "Teletubbies" character Tinky Winky was gay. Matt Foreman, executive director of National Gay and Lesbian Task Force, extended condolences to those close to Falwell, but added: "Unfortunately, we will always remember him as a founder and leader of America's anti-gay industry, someone who exacerbated the nation's appalling response to the onslaught of the AIDS epidemic, someone who demonized and vilified us for political gain and someone who used religion to divide rather than unite our nation." The 1980s marked the religious conservative movement's high-water mark. In more recent years, Falwell had become a problematic figure for the GOP. His remarks a few days after Sept. 11, 2001, essentially blaming feminists, gays and liberals for bringing on the terrorist attacks drew a rebuke from the White House, and he apologized. Falwell's declining political star seemed apparent when he quietly led in and out of the Republican Party's 2004 national convention. Just four years earlier, he was invited to pray from the rostrum. The big, blue-eyed preacher with a booming voice started a fundamentalist church in an abandoned bottling plant in Lynchburg in 1956 with just 35 members. He built it into a religious empire that included the 22,000-member Thomas Road Baptist Church, the "Old Time Gospel Hour" carried on TV stations around the country and 7,700-student Liberty University, which Falwell founded in 1971 as Lynchburg Baptist College. From his living room, he broadcast his message of salvation and raised the donations that helped his ministry grow. "He was one of the first to come up with ways to use television to expand his ministry," said Robert Alley, a retired University of Richmond religion professor who studied and criticized Falwell's career. Falwell had once opposed mixing preaching with politics, but changed his views. The Moral Majority grew to 6.5 million members and raised $69 million as it supported conservative politicians and railed against abortion, homosexuality, pornography and bans on school prayer. Falwell became the face of the religious right, appearing on national magazine covers and on talk shows. In 1983, U.S. News & World Report named him one of 25 most influential people in America. "Dr. Falwell was a man of distinguished accomplishment who devoted his life to serving his faith and country," said Sen. John McCain, a GOP presidential contender who during the 2000 primaries referred to Falwell and Robertson as "agents of intolerance." McCain has since distanced himself from those comments. In 1984, Falwell sued Hustler for $45 million, charging that he was libeled by an liquor-ad parody that quoted him as saying he lost his virginity to his mother in an outhouse. A federal jury found the fake ad did not libel him, but awarded him $200,000 for emotional distress. The verdict was overturned in a landmark 1988 U.S. Supreme Court decision that held that even pornographic spoofs about a public figure enjoy First Amendment protection. With Falwell's high profile came frequent criticism, even from fellow ministers. The Rev. Billy Graham once rebuked him for political sermonizing on "non-moral issues." Falwell quit the Moral Majority in 1987, saying he was tired of being "a lightning rod" and wanted to devote his time to his ministry and Liberty University. But he remained outspoken and continued to draw criticism for his remarks. In 1999, he told an evangelical conference that the Antichrist was a male Jew who was probably already alive. Falwell later apologized for the remark but not for holding the belief. A month later, his National Liberty Journal warned parents that Tinky Winky, the children's TV character, was a gay role model and morally damaging to children. Falwell was re-energized after family values proved important in the 2004 presidential election. He formed the Faith and Values Coalition as the "21st Century resurrection of the Moral Majority," to seek anti-abortion judges, a constitutional amendment banning gay marriage and more conservative elected officials. In 1987, Falwell took over the PTL (Praise the Lord) ministry in South Carolina after the Rev. Jim Bakker got caught in a sex and money scandal. Falwell slid fully clothed down a theme park water slide after donors met his fundraising goal to help rescue the rival ministry. He gave it up seven months later after learning the depth of PTL's financial problems. Largely because of the sex scandals involving Bakker and fellow evangelist Jimmy Swaggart, donations to Falwell's ministry dropped from $135 million in 1986 to less than $100 million the following year. Hundreds of workers were laid off and viewers of his television show dwindled. Liberty University was $73 million in debt and on the verge of bankruptcy, and his "Old Time Gospel Hour" was $16 million in debt. By the mid-1990s, two local businessmen with long ties to Falwell began overseeing the finances and helped get companies to forgive debts or write them off. Falwell dreamed that Liberty would grow to 50,000 students and be to fundamentalist Christians what Notre Dame is to Roman Catholics and Brigham Young University is to Mormons. Falwell's father and his grandfather were militant atheists, he wrote in his autobiography. He said his father made a fortune off his businesses - including bootlegging during Prohibition. As a student, Falwell was a star athlete and a prankster who was barred from giving his high school valedictorian's speech after he was caught using counterfeit lunch tickets. He ran with a gang of juvenile delinquents before becoming a born-again Christian at 19. He turned down an offer to play professional baseball and transferred from Lynchburg College to Baptist Bible College in Springfield, Mo. "My heart was burning to serve Christ," he once said in an interview. "I knew nothing would ever be the same again." Falwell had made careful preparations for a transition of his leadership to his two sons, Jerry Falwell, Jr., now vice chancellor of Liberty University, and Jonathan Falwell, executive the pastor of Thomas Road Baptist Church. Falwell is survived by his wife, Macel, his two sons and a daughter, Jeannie Falwell Savas. Funeral arrangements were not immediately known. Former Massachusetts Gov. Mitt Romney, a Mormon whose own faith has become an issue during his run for the presidency, said Falwell "built and led a movement based on strong principles and strong faith," and "the legacy of his important work will continue through his many ministries where he put his faith into action." &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. To search, choose a collection, then enter words and phrases, separated by commas (e.g., search, jet engines, basketball). The Daily Star.com is owned and operated by The Daily Star. Copyright (c) 1998-2006 The Daily Star. All rights reserved The Daily Star is a division of The Dow Jones Community Newspaper Group
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/M/MISSING_OFFICER?SITE=NYONE&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	The Daily Star - Online Edition The Daily Star - Online Edition May 15, 4:25 PM EDT Search on in S.C. for missing officer Buy AP Photo Reprints LADSON, S.C. (AP) -- Dozens of police officers and bloodhounds searched for a missing constable Tuesday after his empty cruiser was found in flames several miles from where he was last seen at a traffic stop, authorities said. Charleston County Sheriff Al Cannon said authorities had identified a "person of interest" who was being sought on an unrelated weapons charge. But he said officials don't know what happened to Robert Lee Bailey, a 66-year-old constable who works for the Lincolnville Police Department. "It certainly does not look good. But we are hopeful. We have no explanation for what occurred," Cannon said. He said the shooting was not believed to be related to the traffic stop. Bailey was last seen when he pulled a vehicle over about 10:30 p.m. Monday in Lincolnville. Witnesses reported hearing gunshots a few minutes later, and Bailey's cap, two guns, bullet casings and blood were found in a yard. About an hour later, a Highway Patrol officer spotted Bailey's burning car in the parking lot of a church off Interstate 26. Cannon said officials wanted to speak to a 24-year-old man wanted on a federal weapons charge. Walter Fayall, of St. Stephens, was being sought by the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms. No charges had been filed against him in the missing officer case. Authorities also issued an alert for a black Chevrolet Caprice. Along highways near Lincolnville, a small town about 20 miles west of Charleston, electronic signs listed a fugitive alert. Gary Tucker, data analyst for Faith Assembly of God Church, saw the charred remains of the cruiser early Tuesday. "I just noticed it was a police car and it was torched. And the back window was smashed out," he said. The South Carolina Law Enforcement Division sent agents to help in the investigation, spokeswoman Kathryn Richardson said. Constables assist law enforcement agencies and may carry firearms. They must complete a basic training course at a state technical college before they can be appointed by the governor. Associated Press Writer Katrina A. Goggins in Columbia contributed to this report. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. To search, choose a collection, then enter words and phrases, separated by commas (e.g., search, jet engines, basketball). The Daily Star.com is owned and operated by The Daily Star. Copyright (c) 1998-2006 The Daily Star. All rights reserved The Daily Star is a division of The Dow Jones Community Newspaper Group
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/M/MISSING_OFFICER?SITE=NYONE&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	The Daily Star - Online Edition The Daily Star - Online Edition May 15, 4:25 PM EDT Search on in S.C. for missing officer Buy AP Photo Reprints LADSON, S.C. (AP) -- Dozens of police officers and bloodhounds searched for a missing constable Tuesday after his empty cruiser was found in flames several miles from where he was last seen at a traffic stop, authorities said. Charleston County Sheriff Al Cannon said authorities had identified a "person of interest" who was being sought on an unrelated weapons charge. But he said officials don't know what happened to Robert Lee Bailey, a 66-year-old constable who works for the Lincolnville Police Department. "It certainly does not look good. But we are hopeful. We have no explanation for what occurred," Cannon said. He said the shooting was not believed to be related to the traffic stop. Bailey was last seen when he pulled a vehicle over about 10:30 p.m. Monday in Lincolnville. Witnesses reported hearing gunshots a few minutes later, and Bailey's cap, two guns, bullet casings and blood were found in a yard. About an hour later, a Highway Patrol officer spotted Bailey's burning car in the parking lot of a church off Interstate 26. Cannon said officials wanted to speak to a 24-year-old man wanted on a federal weapons charge. Walter Fayall, of St. Stephens, was being sought by the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms. No charges had been filed against him in the missing officer case. Authorities also issued an alert for a black Chevrolet Caprice. Along highways near Lincolnville, a small town about 20 miles west of Charleston, electronic signs listed a fugitive alert. Gary Tucker, data analyst for Faith Assembly of God Church, saw the charred remains of the cruiser early Tuesday. "I just noticed it was a police car and it was torched. And the back window was smashed out," he said. The South Carolina Law Enforcement Division sent agents to help in the investigation, spokeswoman Kathryn Richardson said. Constables assist law enforcement agencies and may carry firearms. They must complete a basic training course at a state technical college before they can be appointed by the governor. Associated Press Writer Katrina A. Goggins in Columbia contributed to this report. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. To search, choose a collection, then enter words and phrases, separated by commas (e.g., search, jet engines, basketball). The Daily Star.com is owned and operated by The Daily Star. Copyright (c) 1998-2006 The Daily Star. All rights reserved The Daily Star is a division of The Dow Jones Community Newspaper Group
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/P/PEOPLE_LOHAN_LAWSUIT?SITE=NYONE&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	The Daily Star - Online Edition The Daily Star - Online Edition May 15, 4:31 PM EDT NYC photographer sues Lohan and her mom Mary J. Blige wins Voice of Music award NYC photographer sues Lohan and her mom Stallone pleads guilty to import charge Lindsay Lohan tops Maxim `Hot 100' list `Sopranos' star Drea de Matteo pregnant Buy AP Photo Reprints Cannes Film Festival opens, turns 60 NYC photographer sues Lohan and her mom Stallone pleads guilty to import charge Gere arrest warrant suspended DiCaprio sued over his basketball court NEW YORK (AP) -- Lindsay Lohan and her mother have been sued by a freelance photographer who claims the "Georgia Rule" actress hit him with a car in the West Village. Photographer Giovanni Arnold claims he "sustained severe and permanent personal injuries" when he was struck by the BMW on March 13 on Ninth Avenue between 12th and 13th streets. Arnold suffered injuries to both knees and was "still getting medical treatment," his lawyer, Marc Mauser, said Tuesday. He said Arnold was seeking unspecified monetary damages "for his pain and suffering and his lost wages." Robert Stephan Cohen, a lawyer for Lindsay Lohan and her mother, Dina, was in a meeting Tuesday and wasn't immediately available for comment, his office said. The complaint claims the Lohans were "negligent, careless and reckless" with the vehicle. The lawsuit, filed last Thursday, says the BMW was owned by Dina Lohan and that her daughter was driving it with her permission. Arnold was reportedly among several photographers trailing the 20-year-old actress from a nightclub to the Hotel Gansevoort in the Meatpacking District. Lohan reportedly told the New York Post in March that one of the photographers jumped on the hood of the car, accidentally knocking Arnold down. According to Mauser, Arnold was in front of the BMW when Lohan put it in reverse and then in drive, throwing him on the hood and then the ground. He said the actress stopped to check on Arnold before leaving. The Lohans have 30 days to respond to the lawsuit, filed in state Supreme Court in the Bronx, the borough where Arnold lives. (This version CORRECTS the name and location of the hotel. ) &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. To search, choose a collection, then enter words and phrases, separated by commas (e.g., search, jet engines, basketball). The Daily Star.com is owned and operated by The Daily Star. Copyright (c) 1998-2006 The Daily Star. All rights reserved The Daily Star is a division of The Dow Jones Community Newspaper Group
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/P/PEOPLE_LOHAN_LAWSUIT?SITE=NYONE&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	The Daily Star - Online Edition The Daily Star - Online Edition May 15, 4:31 PM EDT NYC photographer sues Lohan and her mom Mary J. Blige wins Voice of Music award NYC photographer sues Lohan and her mom Stallone pleads guilty to import charge Lindsay Lohan tops Maxim `Hot 100' list `Sopranos' star Drea de Matteo pregnant Buy AP Photo Reprints Cannes Film Festival opens, turns 60 NYC photographer sues Lohan and her mom Stallone pleads guilty to import charge Gere arrest warrant suspended DiCaprio sued over his basketball court NEW YORK (AP) -- Lindsay Lohan and her mother have been sued by a freelance photographer who claims the "Georgia Rule" actress hit him with a car in the West Village. Photographer Giovanni Arnold claims he "sustained severe and permanent personal injuries" when he was struck by the BMW on March 13 on Ninth Avenue between 12th and 13th streets. Arnold suffered injuries to both knees and was "still getting medical treatment," his lawyer, Marc Mauser, said Tuesday. He said Arnold was seeking unspecified monetary damages "for his pain and suffering and his lost wages." Robert Stephan Cohen, a lawyer for Lindsay Lohan and her mother, Dina, was in a meeting Tuesday and wasn't immediately available for comment, his office said. The complaint claims the Lohans were "negligent, careless and reckless" with the vehicle. The lawsuit, filed last Thursday, says the BMW was owned by Dina Lohan and that her daughter was driving it with her permission. Arnold was reportedly among several photographers trailing the 20-year-old actress from a nightclub to the Hotel Gansevoort in the Meatpacking District. Lohan reportedly told the New York Post in March that one of the photographers jumped on the hood of the car, accidentally knocking Arnold down. According to Mauser, Arnold was in front of the BMW when Lohan put it in reverse and then in drive, throwing him on the hood and then the ground. He said the actress stopped to check on Arnold before leaving. The Lohans have 30 days to respond to the lawsuit, filed in state Supreme Court in the Bronx, the borough where Arnold lives. (This version CORRECTS the name and location of the hotel. ) &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. To search, choose a collection, then enter words and phrases, separated by commas (e.g., search, jet engines, basketball). The Daily Star.com is owned and operated by The Daily Star. Copyright (c) 1998-2006 The Daily Star. All rights reserved The Daily Star is a division of The Dow Jones Community Newspaper Group
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/B/BRAZIL_MISSIONARY_KILLED?SITE=NYONE&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	The Daily Star - Online Edition The Daily Star - Online Edition May 15, 5:09 PM EDT Rancher guilty in killing of U.S. nun Rancher guilty in killing of U.S. nun Pope assails Marxism and capitalism Pope news conference causes stir Pope to canonize first Brazilian saint Pope visits Brazil, church loses ground Buy AP Photo Reprints Justice Delayed: Latin America's Dirty Wars Leaning Left: Political Changes in Latin America Rancher guilty in killing of U.S. nun Brazil indigenous groups fault pope talk Shake-up in Colombia's security forces Cuba tries Castro archenemy in absentia Colombia orders more lawmakers arrested BELEM, Brazil (AP) -- A Brazilian rancher was convicted Tuesday of ordering the killing of an American nun and rain forest defender in a case seen as an important test of justice in the largely lawless Amazon region. A judge sentenced him to 30 years in prison. Vitalmiro Bastos de Moura "showed a violent personality unsuited to living in society," the judge said in sentencing him to the maximum penalty for the 2005 slaying of 73-year-old Dorothy Stang. The "killing was carried out in violent and cowardly manner," Judge Raymond Moises Alves Flexa said. Stang's brother David, who flew to Brazil for the two-day trial, trembled and wept after the verdict. "Justice was done," he said, adding that he now believed another rancher also accused of ordering his sister's killing may be convicted when he goes to trial later this year. Stang, a naturalized Brazilian originally from Dayton, Ohio, helped build schools and was among the activists who worked to defend the rights of impoverished and exploited farmers drawn to the Amazon region. She also attempted to halt the rampant jungle clearing by loggers and ranchers that has destroyed some 20 percent of the forest cover. Tuesday's verdict came after three other men convicted in connection with the killing - a gunman, his accomplice and a go-between - recanted earlier testimony that Moura had offered them $25,000 to kill Stang in a conflict over land he wanted to log and develop. Human rights defenders said the trial was a key measure of whether the powerful masterminds behind land-related killings can be held accountable in the Amazon state of Para. Of nearly 800 such killings during the past 30 years, only four masterminds have been convicted and none are behind bars. Shortly after Stang's killing, President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva ordered the army into the region, suspended logging permits and ordered large swathes of rain forest off-limits to development. Moura denied ordering the killing during the trial, and his lawyer mounted a lengthy anti-American tirade in his closing arguments, calling Stang "the fruit of a poisoned tree." Accusing the United States of crimes ranging from atom bombs dropped on Japan during World War II to the treatment of prisoners at its Guantanamo Bay detention center in Cuba, defense attorney Americo Leal said Stang "shares this DNA of violence, the DNA to kill." "The victim didn't stop practicing her criminal activity and she died as a result of the violence she tried to implant," he said. David Stang expressed dismay. "The trial's about Bida, Dorothy was the victim," Stang said, referring to Moura by his nickname. "So this fantasy world the defense lawyers are trying to create only maintains this cycle of killings." On Monday, Moura denied he ordered Stang's killing, maintaining he did not even know the nun, who had been organizing poor settlers around the jungle town of Anapu for 23 years. "This thing about money isn't true. This thing about me and Bida talking isn't true," Clodoaldo Carlos Batista said Monday, in recanting his earlier testimony implicating Moura. Batista, who was sentenced to 17 years in prison as an accomplice to gunman Rayfran Neves Sales, claimed he had been coerced into implicating Moura by two American FBI agents who traveled to Brazil shortly after the murder to monitor the police investigation. Both Batista and Sales, who was sentenced to 27 years in prison, claimed the agents threatened to send them to the United States, where they could face the death penalty if they did not cooperate. Brazil does not have the death penalty and the most a convict can serve at a single stretch is 30 years. U.S. Embassy spokesman Richard Mei said Brazil does not allow the extradition of its citizens to other countries for crimes committed in Brazil. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. To search, choose a collection, then enter words and phrases, separated by commas (e.g., search, jet engines, basketball). The Daily Star.com is owned and operated by The Daily Star. Copyright (c) 1998-2006 The Daily Star. All rights reserved The Daily Star is a division of The Dow Jones Community Newspaper Group
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/B/BRAZIL_MISSIONARY_KILLED?SITE=NYONE&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	The Daily Star - Online Edition The Daily Star - Online Edition May 15, 5:09 PM EDT Rancher guilty in killing of U.S. nun Rancher guilty in killing of U.S. nun Pope assails Marxism and capitalism Pope news conference causes stir Pope to canonize first Brazilian saint Pope visits Brazil, church loses ground Buy AP Photo Reprints Justice Delayed: Latin America's Dirty Wars Leaning Left: Political Changes in Latin America Rancher guilty in killing of U.S. nun Brazil indigenous groups fault pope talk Shake-up in Colombia's security forces Cuba tries Castro archenemy in absentia Colombia orders more lawmakers arrested BELEM, Brazil (AP) -- A Brazilian rancher was convicted Tuesday of ordering the killing of an American nun and rain forest defender in a case seen as an important test of justice in the largely lawless Amazon region. A judge sentenced him to 30 years in prison. Vitalmiro Bastos de Moura "showed a violent personality unsuited to living in society," the judge said in sentencing him to the maximum penalty for the 2005 slaying of 73-year-old Dorothy Stang. The "killing was carried out in violent and cowardly manner," Judge Raymond Moises Alves Flexa said. Stang's brother David, who flew to Brazil for the two-day trial, trembled and wept after the verdict. "Justice was done," he said, adding that he now believed another rancher also accused of ordering his sister's killing may be convicted when he goes to trial later this year. Stang, a naturalized Brazilian originally from Dayton, Ohio, helped build schools and was among the activists who worked to defend the rights of impoverished and exploited farmers drawn to the Amazon region. She also attempted to halt the rampant jungle clearing by loggers and ranchers that has destroyed some 20 percent of the forest cover. Tuesday's verdict came after three other men convicted in connection with the killing - a gunman, his accomplice and a go-between - recanted earlier testimony that Moura had offered them $25,000 to kill Stang in a conflict over land he wanted to log and develop. Human rights defenders said the trial was a key measure of whether the powerful masterminds behind land-related killings can be held accountable in the Amazon state of Para. Of nearly 800 such killings during the past 30 years, only four masterminds have been convicted and none are behind bars. Shortly after Stang's killing, President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva ordered the army into the region, suspended logging permits and ordered large swathes of rain forest off-limits to development. Moura denied ordering the killing during the trial, and his lawyer mounted a lengthy anti-American tirade in his closing arguments, calling Stang "the fruit of a poisoned tree." Accusing the United States of crimes ranging from atom bombs dropped on Japan during World War II to the treatment of prisoners at its Guantanamo Bay detention center in Cuba, defense attorney Americo Leal said Stang "shares this DNA of violence, the DNA to kill." "The victim didn't stop practicing her criminal activity and she died as a result of the violence she tried to implant," he said. David Stang expressed dismay. "The trial's about Bida, Dorothy was the victim," Stang said, referring to Moura by his nickname. "So this fantasy world the defense lawyers are trying to create only maintains this cycle of killings." On Monday, Moura denied he ordered Stang's killing, maintaining he did not even know the nun, who had been organizing poor settlers around the jungle town of Anapu for 23 years. "This thing about money isn't true. This thing about me and Bida talking isn't true," Clodoaldo Carlos Batista said Monday, in recanting his earlier testimony implicating Moura. Batista, who was sentenced to 17 years in prison as an accomplice to gunman Rayfran Neves Sales, claimed he had been coerced into implicating Moura by two American FBI agents who traveled to Brazil shortly after the murder to monitor the police investigation. Both Batista and Sales, who was sentenced to 27 years in prison, claimed the agents threatened to send them to the United States, where they could face the death penalty if they did not cooperate. Brazil does not have the death penalty and the most a convict can serve at a single stretch is 30 years. U.S. Embassy spokesman Richard Mei said Brazil does not allow the extradition of its citizens to other countries for crimes committed in Brazil. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. To search, choose a collection, then enter words and phrases, separated by commas (e.g., search, jet engines, basketball). The Daily Star.com is owned and operated by The Daily Star. Copyright (c) 1998-2006 The Daily Star. All rights reserved The Daily Star is a division of The Dow Jones Community Newspaper Group
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/P/PADILLA_TERROR_CHARGES?SITE=NYONE&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	The Daily Star - Online Edition The Daily Star - Online Edition May 15, 3:39 PM EDT CIA agent testifies at Padilla trial Criminal complaint against Eljvir Duka in Fort Dix plot case Hearing Transcript: Waleed Mohammed bin Attash Hearing Transcript: Khalid Sheikh Mohammed Hearing Transcript Abu Faraj al-Libi Hearing Transcript: Ramzi Binalshibh Declassified Report: Iraq 'Cause Celebre' for Extremists CIA agent testifies at Padilla trial Ex-spy chief: Al-Qaida shifting tactics Terror suspect claims CIA tortured him Doctor said he'd treat anti-U.S. forces U.S. efforts bear fruit in Philippines Buy AP Photo Reprints Copy of "mujahedeen data form" linked to Padilla CIA document cited in Padilla case MIAMI (AP) -- A covert CIA officer permitted to testify wearing a disguise and using an alias described in court Tuesday how U.S. officials in Afghanistan obtained a truckload of al-Qaida documents, including a form later linked to alleged operative Jose Padilla. The officer, whose true identity is classified, gave his name as Tom Langston. He appeared in court with a beard and glasses, although the nature of the disguise was not obvious or made public. Prosecutors declined to say if any concealment was even used. The arrangement was approved by U.S. District Judge Marcia Cooke at the request of the CIA, which sought to protect the officer's ability to continue doing clandestine work overseas. It was not disclosed to the jury. Langston testified that he was working in December 2001 at a classified CIA site in Kandahar, Afghanistan, when an Afghan man driving a pickup truck showed up with thousands of pages of documents. Among them was a bright blue binder containing what appeared to be dozens of forms in Arabic, one of which allegedly turned out to be Padilla's. Prosecutors say his fingerprints are on the "mujahedeen data form," which had questions on language skills, military experience, religious education and other areas. The form is crucial to the government's case because it could link Padilla and his two alleged co-conspirators - Adham Amin Hassoun and Kifah Wael Jayyousi - to al-Qaida. The three are charged with being part of a U.S.-based support cell for Islamic extremists around the world, including al-Qaida. The unidentified Afghan man, Langston said, was affiliated with an Afghan tribal leader opposed to the country's Islamic fundamentalist Taliban rulers, who were then battling U.S. forces. Under the Taliban, al-Qaida had established terrorist training camps in Afghanistan in the years leading to the Sept. 11, 2001 terrorist attacks. "He was loyal to some individuals who were cooperating with us against the Taliban and the terrorist element," the CIA officer said. The Afghan man told the CIA he collected the documents from a house occupied by Arabs who had fled shortly before the 2001 U.S. invasion and were known locally to be affiliated with al-Qaida. Langston said the man was not paid or given any other benefit by U.S. officials for the documents, although he was prohibited after prosecutors objected from answering questions about whether the man's tribal leader was compensated. "I think he took this initiative on his own," the CIA officer said of the man who brought the documents. At one point, Langston grew reluctant to answer a question from Padilla attorney Orlando do Campo about how CIA officers and analysts handle documents such as those in the binder. "I'm a little uncomfortable answering the question because it gets into methods. I'm sworn to protect sources and methods," he said. The binder and other documents were kept in a locked room at the CIA installation in Kandahar, then placed in boxes and transported on U.S. vehicles and aircraft to the FBI in Islamabad, Pakistan. The binder was in a box labeled "vegetable oil," the CIA officer said. The FBI legal attache there in late 2001, Jennifer Keenan, testified Tuesday that she remembered the binder among 22 boxes, trunks and other containers because it appeared to hold information important for U.S. counterterrorism investigators. "We were very grateful to find this," Keenan said. "I called it a pledge form. It says pledge on it." It wasn't until later that the FBI in Washington was able to link one of the forms to Padilla, who allegedly filled it out under the name Abu Abdullah al-Mujahir in July 2000. A key to making that link was information gathered during U.S. interrogations of other alleged al-Qaida figures, according to documents filed in the Padilla case. Padilla, a 36-year-old former Chicago gang member and U.S. citizen, was arrested by the FBI in May 2002 when he arrived at Chicago's O'Hare International Airport. The Bush administration initially accused him of plotting to detonate a radioactive "dirty bomb" in a U.S. city, but those allegations are not part of the criminal indictment. Padilla was added to the Miami case after 3 1/2 years in military custody as an enemy combatant. His case was the subject of a lengthy legal battle over the president's wartime detention powers over U.S. citizens. Padilla and his two co-defendants face up to life in prison if convicted on all charges. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. To search, choose a collection, then enter words and phrases, separated by commas (e.g., search, jet engines, basketball). The Daily Star.com is owned and operated by The Daily Star. Copyright (c) 1998-2006 The Daily Star. All rights reserved The Daily Star is a division of The Dow Jones Community Newspaper Group
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/P/PADILLA_TERROR_CHARGES?SITE=NYONE&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	The Daily Star - Online Edition The Daily Star - Online Edition May 15, 3:39 PM EDT CIA agent testifies at Padilla trial Criminal complaint against Eljvir Duka in Fort Dix plot case Hearing Transcript: Waleed Mohammed bin Attash Hearing Transcript: Khalid Sheikh Mohammed Hearing Transcript Abu Faraj al-Libi Hearing Transcript: Ramzi Binalshibh Declassified Report: Iraq 'Cause Celebre' for Extremists CIA agent testifies at Padilla trial Ex-spy chief: Al-Qaida shifting tactics Terror suspect claims CIA tortured him Doctor said he'd treat anti-U.S. forces U.S. efforts bear fruit in Philippines Buy AP Photo Reprints Copy of "mujahedeen data form" linked to Padilla CIA document cited in Padilla case MIAMI (AP) -- A covert CIA officer permitted to testify wearing a disguise and using an alias described in court Tuesday how U.S. officials in Afghanistan obtained a truckload of al-Qaida documents, including a form later linked to alleged operative Jose Padilla. The officer, whose true identity is classified, gave his name as Tom Langston. He appeared in court with a beard and glasses, although the nature of the disguise was not obvious or made public. Prosecutors declined to say if any concealment was even used. The arrangement was approved by U.S. District Judge Marcia Cooke at the request of the CIA, which sought to protect the officer's ability to continue doing clandestine work overseas. It was not disclosed to the jury. Langston testified that he was working in December 2001 at a classified CIA site in Kandahar, Afghanistan, when an Afghan man driving a pickup truck showed up with thousands of pages of documents. Among them was a bright blue binder containing what appeared to be dozens of forms in Arabic, one of which allegedly turned out to be Padilla's. Prosecutors say his fingerprints are on the "mujahedeen data form," which had questions on language skills, military experience, religious education and other areas. The form is crucial to the government's case because it could link Padilla and his two alleged co-conspirators - Adham Amin Hassoun and Kifah Wael Jayyousi - to al-Qaida. The three are charged with being part of a U.S.-based support cell for Islamic extremists around the world, including al-Qaida. The unidentified Afghan man, Langston said, was affiliated with an Afghan tribal leader opposed to the country's Islamic fundamentalist Taliban rulers, who were then battling U.S. forces. Under the Taliban, al-Qaida had established terrorist training camps in Afghanistan in the years leading to the Sept. 11, 2001 terrorist attacks. "He was loyal to some individuals who were cooperating with us against the Taliban and the terrorist element," the CIA officer said. The Afghan man told the CIA he collected the documents from a house occupied by Arabs who had fled shortly before the 2001 U.S. invasion and were known locally to be affiliated with al-Qaida. Langston said the man was not paid or given any other benefit by U.S. officials for the documents, although he was prohibited after prosecutors objected from answering questions about whether the man's tribal leader was compensated. "I think he took this initiative on his own," the CIA officer said of the man who brought the documents. At one point, Langston grew reluctant to answer a question from Padilla attorney Orlando do Campo about how CIA officers and analysts handle documents such as those in the binder. "I'm a little uncomfortable answering the question because it gets into methods. I'm sworn to protect sources and methods," he said. The binder and other documents were kept in a locked room at the CIA installation in Kandahar, then placed in boxes and transported on U.S. vehicles and aircraft to the FBI in Islamabad, Pakistan. The binder was in a box labeled "vegetable oil," the CIA officer said. The FBI legal attache there in late 2001, Jennifer Keenan, testified Tuesday that she remembered the binder among 22 boxes, trunks and other containers because it appeared to hold information important for U.S. counterterrorism investigators. "We were very grateful to find this," Keenan said. "I called it a pledge form. It says pledge on it." It wasn't until later that the FBI in Washington was able to link one of the forms to Padilla, who allegedly filled it out under the name Abu Abdullah al-Mujahir in July 2000. A key to making that link was information gathered during U.S. interrogations of other alleged al-Qaida figures, according to documents filed in the Padilla case. Padilla, a 36-year-old former Chicago gang member and U.S. citizen, was arrested by the FBI in May 2002 when he arrived at Chicago's O'Hare International Airport. The Bush administration initially accused him of plotting to detonate a radioactive "dirty bomb" in a U.S. city, but those allegations are not part of the criminal indictment. Padilla was added to the Miami case after 3 1/2 years in military custody as an enemy combatant. His case was the subject of a lengthy legal battle over the president's wartime detention powers over U.S. citizens. Padilla and his two co-defendants face up to life in prison if convicted on all charges. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. To search, choose a collection, then enter words and phrases, separated by commas (e.g., search, jet engines, basketball). The Daily Star.com is owned and operated by The Daily Star. Copyright (c) 1998-2006 The Daily Star. All rights reserved The Daily Star is a division of The Dow Jones Community Newspaper Group
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/P/PORTUGAL_MISSING_GIRL?SITE=TXPLA&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	MyPlainview.com - Plainview Daily Herald May 15, 4:28 PM EDT Suspect Freed in Girl's Disappearance Man Investigated in Missing Girl Case Suspect Freed in Girl's Disappearance Buy AP Photo Reprints LISBON, Portugal (AP) -- Portuguese police released a suspect they questioned about a missing British girl because there was not enough evidence to file charges against him, an official said Tuesday. Detectives searched five houses Monday as part of their investigation of the 33-year-old man, identified in media reports as British, and seized some of his belongings, said inspector Olegario de Sousa. Detectives also questioned two other people as part of the same inquiry into 4-year-old Madeleine McCann's disappearance in southern Portugal, he said. The girl vanished May 3 after her parents left her, and her brother and sister, both aged 2, alone while they went to a nearby restaurant within their hotel complex in Portugal's Algarve region, a popular European tourist destination. The suspect lives near the hotel where the girl disappeared, De Sousa said. He declined to give the man's name or nationality, citing Portuguese secrecy laws. The man's seized belongings are being examined for possible evidence, he said. "We hope they throw more light on the case," De Sousa said. Police placed the man under formal investigation. In Portuguese law, opening a formal investigation is a first step toward possibly bringing formal charges. The legal measure is designed to safeguard a citizen's constitutional rights. It grants the person in question access to potential evidence and allows the person to mount a legal defense. On Monday, police searched a villa where local media say the suspect lived with his British mother. They took away computers and cellular phones, Portugal's national news agency Lusa said. Police reportedly drained the villa's pool. The villa is about 100 yards from the hotel where Madeleine and her family, from central England, were staying. Portuguese media said the suspect had mingled with journalists outside the hotel in the days following the girl's disappearance and offered to act as an interpreter. He reportedly speaks English and Portuguese fluently. A British journalist told Sky News she had told local police the man was behaving suspiciously and had encouraged them to follow leads suggesting the girl had been kidnapped and taken to Spain. Last week, police called off their ground search for Madeleine, whose parents are still at the hotel. British media have said that promised contributions to a reward fund total some $5.1 million, including reported donations from Harry Potter author J.K. Rowling, tycoon Sir Richard Branson and "American Idol" judge Simon Cowell. Also, celebrities including soccer star David Beckham have made public appeals for help in finding Madeleine. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint.
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/P/PORTUGAL_MISSING_GIRL?SITE=TXPLA&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	MyPlainview.com - Plainview Daily Herald May 15, 4:28 PM EDT Suspect Freed in Girl's Disappearance Man Investigated in Missing Girl Case Suspect Freed in Girl's Disappearance Buy AP Photo Reprints LISBON, Portugal (AP) -- Portuguese police released a suspect they questioned about a missing British girl because there was not enough evidence to file charges against him, an official said Tuesday. Detectives searched five houses Monday as part of their investigation of the 33-year-old man, identified in media reports as British, and seized some of his belongings, said inspector Olegario de Sousa. Detectives also questioned two other people as part of the same inquiry into 4-year-old Madeleine McCann's disappearance in southern Portugal, he said. The girl vanished May 3 after her parents left her, and her brother and sister, both aged 2, alone while they went to a nearby restaurant within their hotel complex in Portugal's Algarve region, a popular European tourist destination. The suspect lives near the hotel where the girl disappeared, De Sousa said. He declined to give the man's name or nationality, citing Portuguese secrecy laws. The man's seized belongings are being examined for possible evidence, he said. "We hope they throw more light on the case," De Sousa said. Police placed the man under formal investigation. In Portuguese law, opening a formal investigation is a first step toward possibly bringing formal charges. The legal measure is designed to safeguard a citizen's constitutional rights. It grants the person in question access to potential evidence and allows the person to mount a legal defense. On Monday, police searched a villa where local media say the suspect lived with his British mother. They took away computers and cellular phones, Portugal's national news agency Lusa said. Police reportedly drained the villa's pool. The villa is about 100 yards from the hotel where Madeleine and her family, from central England, were staying. Portuguese media said the suspect had mingled with journalists outside the hotel in the days following the girl's disappearance and offered to act as an interpreter. He reportedly speaks English and Portuguese fluently. A British journalist told Sky News she had told local police the man was behaving suspiciously and had encouraged them to follow leads suggesting the girl had been kidnapped and taken to Spain. Last week, police called off their ground search for Madeleine, whose parents are still at the hotel. British media have said that promised contributions to a reward fund total some $5.1 million, including reported donations from Harry Potter author J.K. Rowling, tycoon Sir Richard Branson and "American Idol" judge Simon Cowell. Also, celebrities including soccer star David Beckham have made public appeals for help in finding Madeleine. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint.
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/B/BORDER_BIOMETRICS?SITE=TXPLA&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	MyPlainview.com - Plainview Daily Herald May 15, 4:42 PM EDT AP IMPACT: Laser Visas Are Rarely Used Border Inspectors Rarely Scan New Visas Buy AP Photo Reprints Graphic of "laser visas" designed for use on the U.S.-Mexico border SAN DIEGO (AP) -- The face- and fingerprint-matching technology that has been touted over the past decade as a sophisticated new way to stop terrorists and illegal immigrants from entering the country through Mexico has one major drawback: U.S. border inspectors almost never use it. In fact, the necessary equipment is not even installed in vehicle lanes along the border. Government officials told The Associated Press that checking more people would create too big a backup at the border, where hours-long traffic jams are already common. Some members of Congress who voted for the system in 1996 are complaining they were misled. They said the intent was to use biometrics - or a person's unique physical traits - to screen everyone. "Congress would not have gone to the trouble of requiring biometric features on the border crossing card if it knew the administration would not require that those features be read by scanners," said Rep. Lamar Smith, R-Texas, who wrote the legislation. The U.S. government has spent tens of millions of dollars issuing visa cards digitally embedded with the holder's photo and fingerprints. Holders of the cards come across the border tens of millions of times each year. But on average, in only about 2 percent of those cases are the cardholders screened with the biometric technology to verify their identities and check law-enforcement records, said Paul Morris, Customs and Border Protection's executive director of admissibility requirements and migration control. The checks are done consistently only on the small portion of cardholders who seek permission to travel beyond the border region. "As the technology becomes available, we can expand the current level of biometric matching," Morris said. "There is not a technology solution currently available that will not cause delays that are well beyond the acceptable levels." Beginning in 1998, the high-tech "laser visas" have been issued to 9.1 million Mexicans for short visits to the United States. The laser visas, which look like driver's licenses, have a 1.4-inch optical memory stripe holding personal information such as name, gender and birth date. The stripe also stores the owner's digitized facial photo and two fingerprints. Cardholders coming across the border may be asked to press their fingers against a glass and pose for a photo, while their card pulls up their biometric file - a process that takes an extra 30 seconds or so per person. The photo and fingerprints can also be instantly checked against criminal and terrorist watch lists. The laser visas entitle Mexicans to travel 25 miles from the border - slightly farther in Arizona - for 30 days. Cardholders can also apply for a permit to travel anywhere in the U.S. for up to six months. Border inspectors routinely swipe the laser visas through a machine to retrieve the basic personal information and to call up a photo. But, with some exceptions, the inspectors use the facial- and fingerprint-matching technology only for those applying at the border for one of the six-month permits, Morris said. That practice means that most of those who are checked are not selected at random; they know they are going to be scanned when they come across. The government contract for laser visas was worth $28.6 million from 2000 to 2006, and Homeland Security awarded a five-year renewal in March to General Dynamics Corp. worth $28.5 million, according to Homeland Security. That price tag excludes the cost of opening new consulates to handle the rush of applicants. The State Department established consulates across the border from Laredo, Texas, and Nogales, Ariz. In Tijuana, Mexico, the consulate took over an old gymnasium across town. The 1996 law said anyone presenting a border crossing card "is not permitted to cross over the border into the U.S. unless the biometric identifier contained on the card matches the appropriate biometric characteristics of the alien." But Sandra Raynes, consular officer at the U.S. consulate in Tijuana, said: "If they were to check everyone, you'd have lines all the way down to Cabo San Lucas," about 1,100 miles south of San Diego. U.S. officials said biometrics are only part of its effort to stem illegal crossings. An inspector's wits and agency intelligence are also key, they said. Biometrics "is one tool in our toolbox," said Kelly Klundt, a Customs and Border Protection spokeswoman. Also, the laminated cards have reduced fraud because they are difficult to counterfeit, officials said. Older visas looked like crumpled library cards, some dating to the 1950s. Authorities said women in their 60s used cards with photographs of teenage girls because the cards had no expiration dates. Former Rep. Jim Kolbe, a Republican who left Congress in January after 22 years representing a district on the Arizona border, said lawmakers expected checks on all cardholders, though there was no timetable. "We definitely intended to go further with it than we have," he said. "Ten years later, it seems incredible that we've only gotten this far with it." The 14 pedestrian booths at San Ysidro, the nation's busiest border crossing by far, are equipped with fingerprint glass but no cameras. But that glass is not used on the 30,000 people who walk though daily. There is neither type of equipment in the 24 vehicle lanes, which handle about 35,000 cars and 250 buses a day. Applicants for the six-month permits are asked to pull aside into a small parking lot, get out and walk up to a booth, where they are fingerprinted and photographed for verification. Initially, border crossings did not even have equipment to lift personal information off the cards, let alone the biometric data. Jeffrey Davidow, U.S. ambassador to Mexico from 1998 to 2001, recalls members of Congress visiting the border to see the machines, which were never used when the lawmakers were gone. "I'd tell them that it was all show, that it doesn't work, that the card is not doing what it's supposed to do," Davidow said. He said his warnings elicited shrugs. There were also technological setbacks. Equipment to verify photos and fingerprints often failed to read through sweat, scratches and other wallet "crud," according to an internal Homeland Security report. A test at five Texas crossings in the spring of 2004 showed that 731 out of 1,740 cards, or 42 percent, were unreadable, according to the report, which was provided to The Associated Press by someone who insisted on anonymity because the government did not authorize its release. Homeland Security officials did not have more recent figures on how many cards are correctly read. But they said technical problems have been resolved. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint.
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/B/BORDER_BIOMETRICS?SITE=TXPLA&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	MyPlainview.com - Plainview Daily Herald May 15, 4:42 PM EDT AP IMPACT: Laser Visas Are Rarely Used Border Inspectors Rarely Scan New Visas Buy AP Photo Reprints Graphic of "laser visas" designed for use on the U.S.-Mexico border SAN DIEGO (AP) -- The face- and fingerprint-matching technology that has been touted over the past decade as a sophisticated new way to stop terrorists and illegal immigrants from entering the country through Mexico has one major drawback: U.S. border inspectors almost never use it. In fact, the necessary equipment is not even installed in vehicle lanes along the border. Government officials told The Associated Press that checking more people would create too big a backup at the border, where hours-long traffic jams are already common. Some members of Congress who voted for the system in 1996 are complaining they were misled. They said the intent was to use biometrics - or a person's unique physical traits - to screen everyone. "Congress would not have gone to the trouble of requiring biometric features on the border crossing card if it knew the administration would not require that those features be read by scanners," said Rep. Lamar Smith, R-Texas, who wrote the legislation. The U.S. government has spent tens of millions of dollars issuing visa cards digitally embedded with the holder's photo and fingerprints. Holders of the cards come across the border tens of millions of times each year. But on average, in only about 2 percent of those cases are the cardholders screened with the biometric technology to verify their identities and check law-enforcement records, said Paul Morris, Customs and Border Protection's executive director of admissibility requirements and migration control. The checks are done consistently only on the small portion of cardholders who seek permission to travel beyond the border region. "As the technology becomes available, we can expand the current level of biometric matching," Morris said. "There is not a technology solution currently available that will not cause delays that are well beyond the acceptable levels." Beginning in 1998, the high-tech "laser visas" have been issued to 9.1 million Mexicans for short visits to the United States. The laser visas, which look like driver's licenses, have a 1.4-inch optical memory stripe holding personal information such as name, gender and birth date. The stripe also stores the owner's digitized facial photo and two fingerprints. Cardholders coming across the border may be asked to press their fingers against a glass and pose for a photo, while their card pulls up their biometric file - a process that takes an extra 30 seconds or so per person. The photo and fingerprints can also be instantly checked against criminal and terrorist watch lists. The laser visas entitle Mexicans to travel 25 miles from the border - slightly farther in Arizona - for 30 days. Cardholders can also apply for a permit to travel anywhere in the U.S. for up to six months. Border inspectors routinely swipe the laser visas through a machine to retrieve the basic personal information and to call up a photo. But, with some exceptions, the inspectors use the facial- and fingerprint-matching technology only for those applying at the border for one of the six-month permits, Morris said. That practice means that most of those who are checked are not selected at random; they know they are going to be scanned when they come across. The government contract for laser visas was worth $28.6 million from 2000 to 2006, and Homeland Security awarded a five-year renewal in March to General Dynamics Corp. worth $28.5 million, according to Homeland Security. That price tag excludes the cost of opening new consulates to handle the rush of applicants. The State Department established consulates across the border from Laredo, Texas, and Nogales, Ariz. In Tijuana, Mexico, the consulate took over an old gymnasium across town. The 1996 law said anyone presenting a border crossing card "is not permitted to cross over the border into the U.S. unless the biometric identifier contained on the card matches the appropriate biometric characteristics of the alien." But Sandra Raynes, consular officer at the U.S. consulate in Tijuana, said: "If they were to check everyone, you'd have lines all the way down to Cabo San Lucas," about 1,100 miles south of San Diego. U.S. officials said biometrics are only part of its effort to stem illegal crossings. An inspector's wits and agency intelligence are also key, they said. Biometrics "is one tool in our toolbox," said Kelly Klundt, a Customs and Border Protection spokeswoman. Also, the laminated cards have reduced fraud because they are difficult to counterfeit, officials said. Older visas looked like crumpled library cards, some dating to the 1950s. Authorities said women in their 60s used cards with photographs of teenage girls because the cards had no expiration dates. Former Rep. Jim Kolbe, a Republican who left Congress in January after 22 years representing a district on the Arizona border, said lawmakers expected checks on all cardholders, though there was no timetable. "We definitely intended to go further with it than we have," he said. "Ten years later, it seems incredible that we've only gotten this far with it." The 14 pedestrian booths at San Ysidro, the nation's busiest border crossing by far, are equipped with fingerprint glass but no cameras. But that glass is not used on the 30,000 people who walk though daily. There is neither type of equipment in the 24 vehicle lanes, which handle about 35,000 cars and 250 buses a day. Applicants for the six-month permits are asked to pull aside into a small parking lot, get out and walk up to a booth, where they are fingerprinted and photographed for verification. Initially, border crossings did not even have equipment to lift personal information off the cards, let alone the biometric data. Jeffrey Davidow, U.S. ambassador to Mexico from 1998 to 2001, recalls members of Congress visiting the border to see the machines, which were never used when the lawmakers were gone. "I'd tell them that it was all show, that it doesn't work, that the card is not doing what it's supposed to do," Davidow said. He said his warnings elicited shrugs. There were also technological setbacks. Equipment to verify photos and fingerprints often failed to read through sweat, scratches and other wallet "crud," according to an internal Homeland Security report. A test at five Texas crossings in the spring of 2004 showed that 731 out of 1,740 cards, or 42 percent, were unreadable, according to the report, which was provided to The Associated Press by someone who insisted on anonymity because the government did not authorize its release. Homeland Security officials did not have more recent figures on how many cards are correctly read. But they said technical problems have been resolved. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint.
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/W/WALL_STREET?SITE=TXPLA&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	MyPlainview.com - Plainview Daily Herald May 15, 5:11 PM EDT Stocks Close Mixed on Housing Report By JOE BEL BRUNO AP Photo/Henny Ray Abrams Stocks Close Mixed on Housing Report Reuters Among Wall Street's Big Movers Wall St. Awaits Inflation, Housing Data Home Depot 1Q Profit Drops 29.5 Percent Wal-Mart 1Q Earnings Rise 8 Percent DaimlerChrysler 1st-Quarter Profit Rises Nokia Says Market Share Will Grow in 2Q Hershey Cuts 2007 Earnings Estimate Toll Bros. to Miss Earnings Projections White House: Options Open on Wolfowitz Treasury Bond Prices Retreat Again Motorists Unfazed by Climbing Gas Prices Bush Nominates Two to Federal Reserve Reuters Agrees to $17.2B Thomson Buyout Buy AP Photo Reprints NEW YORK (AP) -- Wall Street gave up a huge advance and closed mixed Tuesday after an unimpressive snapshot of the housing market unsettled investors. The Dow Jones industrials, which surpassed 13,400 early in the session, slipped back but still eked out a record close. Investors who initially bought enthusiastically following a tame reading on inflation decided to cash in some of their gains after the National Association of Homebuilders said its housing index dropped to 30 from 33 in April, indicating a deteriorating housing outlook. The stock market followed a months-long pattern of rising on upbeat economic data only to give back gains on the latest report of a decline in housing. The day's movement also followed the recent pattern of blue-chip stocks performing better than their smaller counterparts. "We've got a real dichotomy going on here," said Stephen Massocca, president of Pacific Growth Equities. "Big corporate America, the staid and stodgy companies, are doing well. They're going up today. Stocks that are riskier, stocks that are smaller, stocks in the emerging market vein or technology vein, those are being sold." The Dow had surged more than 130 points by midday trading, breezing past 13,400 after the inflation data raised hopes that the Federal Reserve might cut interest rates later this year. The Labor Department said prices paid by consumers rose less than expected in April, and indicated that inflation may be easing as the economy continues to cool. The consumer price index rose 0.4 percent after rising 0.6 percent in March, while core prices - which exclude food and energy - rose 0.2 percent after a 0.1 percent gain. The Dow rose 37.06, or 0.28 percent, to 13,383.84, after rising to a new trading high of 13,481.60. The modest climb nudged the blue-chip index to its 22nd record close this year. Broader indexes slipped. The Standard & Poor's 500 index fell 1.96, or 0.13 percent, at 1,501.19. The technology-dominated Nasdaq composite index fell 21.15, or 0.83 percent, to 2,525.29. "I think you've got certainly a slower economy, and companies and people aren't all that keen to spend on new technology," said Scott Wren, senior equity strategist at AG Edwards. "There's also a lot of competition in the market, so the Nasdaq is likely to lag a little." Since the Dow broke through 12,000 for the first time in October, it has become almost routine for the blue chip index to set new records. The overall market advance has also lifted the S&P 500 near its record close of 1,527.46, reached in the spring of 2000. However, the Nasdaq still remains well off its closing high of 5,048.62, also reached during the peak of the dot-com boom; the index was overinflated by investors rushing to buy any high-tech stock. Investors have been driven by optimism that the Fed is done with its campaign of rate hikes, and that it will soon start lowering rates. Still, when new data reminds them of the fragility of the housing markets, they tend to retrench as they did Tuesday. Bond prices finished lower after the mixed data. The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note rose to 4.71 percent from 4.69 percent late Monday. The dollar fell against other major currencies, while gold prices advanced. A barrel of light sweet crude rose 71 cents to $63.17 on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Concerns lingered in the commodities market about refinery problems and uncertainties over whether U.S. gasoline inventories can meet summer driving demand. Investors were mostly undeterred by disappointing first-quarter results from Dow components Home Depot Inc. and Wal-Mart Stores Inc. Both companies are considered to be barometers of consumer spending, and weaker sales were interpreted as another sign of a slowing economy that could also motivate the Fed to cut rates. Home Depot, the nation's largest home improvement chain, posted lower quarterly profit as a sluggish U.S. housing market dented sales. Sales at stores open at least a year, an important measure of how retailers fared, slumped 7.6 percent. Wal-Mart Stores, the world's largest retailer, missed Wall Street projections and warned second-quarter results might be disappointing. Last week, it reported April same-store sales were the weakest its history for April. Shares of Wal-Mart fell 22 cents to $47.62, while Home Depot shed 71 cents to $38.30. Lowe's Cos., the second-largest home improvement chain, fell 10 cents to $30.89. Reuters Group PLC agreed Tuesday to a $17.2 billion takeover by Thomson Corp. that would vault the combined entity ahead of Bloomberg to become the world's largest financial data and news provider. Shares of Reuters rose $2.72, or 3.8 percent, to $74.34; Thomson rose 16 cents to $42.16. Declining issues outnumbered advancers by about 3 to 2 on the New York Stock Exchange, where volume came to 1.64 billion shares, up from 1.39 billion Monday. The Russell 2000 index of smaller companies fell 8.15, or 0.99 percent, to 814.18. Overseas, Japan's Nikkei stock average closed down 0.93 percent. Britain's FTSE 100 gained 0.20 percent, Germany's DAX index rose 0.61 percent, and France's CAC-40 added 0.39 percent. New York Stock Exchange: &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint.
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/W/WALL_STREET?SITE=TXPLA&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	MyPlainview.com - Plainview Daily Herald May 15, 5:11 PM EDT Stocks Close Mixed on Housing Report By JOE BEL BRUNO AP Photo/Henny Ray Abrams Stocks Close Mixed on Housing Report Reuters Among Wall Street's Big Movers Wall St. Awaits Inflation, Housing Data Home Depot 1Q Profit Drops 29.5 Percent Wal-Mart 1Q Earnings Rise 8 Percent DaimlerChrysler 1st-Quarter Profit Rises Nokia Says Market Share Will Grow in 2Q Hershey Cuts 2007 Earnings Estimate Toll Bros. to Miss Earnings Projections White House: Options Open on Wolfowitz Treasury Bond Prices Retreat Again Motorists Unfazed by Climbing Gas Prices Bush Nominates Two to Federal Reserve Reuters Agrees to $17.2B Thomson Buyout Buy AP Photo Reprints NEW YORK (AP) -- Wall Street gave up a huge advance and closed mixed Tuesday after an unimpressive snapshot of the housing market unsettled investors. The Dow Jones industrials, which surpassed 13,400 early in the session, slipped back but still eked out a record close. Investors who initially bought enthusiastically following a tame reading on inflation decided to cash in some of their gains after the National Association of Homebuilders said its housing index dropped to 30 from 33 in April, indicating a deteriorating housing outlook. The stock market followed a months-long pattern of rising on upbeat economic data only to give back gains on the latest report of a decline in housing. The day's movement also followed the recent pattern of blue-chip stocks performing better than their smaller counterparts. "We've got a real dichotomy going on here," said Stephen Massocca, president of Pacific Growth Equities. "Big corporate America, the staid and stodgy companies, are doing well. They're going up today. Stocks that are riskier, stocks that are smaller, stocks in the emerging market vein or technology vein, those are being sold." The Dow had surged more than 130 points by midday trading, breezing past 13,400 after the inflation data raised hopes that the Federal Reserve might cut interest rates later this year. The Labor Department said prices paid by consumers rose less than expected in April, and indicated that inflation may be easing as the economy continues to cool. The consumer price index rose 0.4 percent after rising 0.6 percent in March, while core prices - which exclude food and energy - rose 0.2 percent after a 0.1 percent gain. The Dow rose 37.06, or 0.28 percent, to 13,383.84, after rising to a new trading high of 13,481.60. The modest climb nudged the blue-chip index to its 22nd record close this year. Broader indexes slipped. The Standard & Poor's 500 index fell 1.96, or 0.13 percent, at 1,501.19. The technology-dominated Nasdaq composite index fell 21.15, or 0.83 percent, to 2,525.29. "I think you've got certainly a slower economy, and companies and people aren't all that keen to spend on new technology," said Scott Wren, senior equity strategist at AG Edwards. "There's also a lot of competition in the market, so the Nasdaq is likely to lag a little." Since the Dow broke through 12,000 for the first time in October, it has become almost routine for the blue chip index to set new records. The overall market advance has also lifted the S&P 500 near its record close of 1,527.46, reached in the spring of 2000. However, the Nasdaq still remains well off its closing high of 5,048.62, also reached during the peak of the dot-com boom; the index was overinflated by investors rushing to buy any high-tech stock. Investors have been driven by optimism that the Fed is done with its campaign of rate hikes, and that it will soon start lowering rates. Still, when new data reminds them of the fragility of the housing markets, they tend to retrench as they did Tuesday. Bond prices finished lower after the mixed data. The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note rose to 4.71 percent from 4.69 percent late Monday. The dollar fell against other major currencies, while gold prices advanced. A barrel of light sweet crude rose 71 cents to $63.17 on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Concerns lingered in the commodities market about refinery problems and uncertainties over whether U.S. gasoline inventories can meet summer driving demand. Investors were mostly undeterred by disappointing first-quarter results from Dow components Home Depot Inc. and Wal-Mart Stores Inc. Both companies are considered to be barometers of consumer spending, and weaker sales were interpreted as another sign of a slowing economy that could also motivate the Fed to cut rates. Home Depot, the nation's largest home improvement chain, posted lower quarterly profit as a sluggish U.S. housing market dented sales. Sales at stores open at least a year, an important measure of how retailers fared, slumped 7.6 percent. Wal-Mart Stores, the world's largest retailer, missed Wall Street projections and warned second-quarter results might be disappointing. Last week, it reported April same-store sales were the weakest its history for April. Shares of Wal-Mart fell 22 cents to $47.62, while Home Depot shed 71 cents to $38.30. Lowe's Cos., the second-largest home improvement chain, fell 10 cents to $30.89. Reuters Group PLC agreed Tuesday to a $17.2 billion takeover by Thomson Corp. that would vault the combined entity ahead of Bloomberg to become the world's largest financial data and news provider. Shares of Reuters rose $2.72, or 3.8 percent, to $74.34; Thomson rose 16 cents to $42.16. Declining issues outnumbered advancers by about 3 to 2 on the New York Stock Exchange, where volume came to 1.64 billion shares, up from 1.39 billion Monday. The Russell 2000 index of smaller companies fell 8.15, or 0.99 percent, to 814.18. Overseas, Japan's Nikkei stock average closed down 0.93 percent. Britain's FTSE 100 gained 0.20 percent, Germany's DAX index rose 0.61 percent, and France's CAC-40 added 0.39 percent. New York Stock Exchange: &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint.
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/B/BBA_YANKEES_CLEMENS?SITE=TXPLA&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	MyPlainview.com - Plainview Daily Herald May 15, 4:30 PM EDT Yankees' Clemens May Pitch by End of May Bonds and BALCO Timeline Yankees' Clemens May Pitch by End of May Dice-K Throws Complete Game for Red Sox Maddux Goes Distance in Padres Win Cardinals Break Out, Beat Dodgers 8-4 Athletics' Cust on Rise As Power Hitter Buy AP Photo Reprints TAMPA, Fla. (AP) -- Roger Clemens could be ready to pitch for the New York Yankees by the end of May. Clemens threw 71 pitches during his first bullpen session on Tuesday at the Yankees' minor league complex. Barring any problems, Clemens is scheduled to make his first minor league start Friday for Class-A Tampa. He didn't rule out joining the Yankees after two starts in the minors, which would line up him to face Toronto May 28. The next time through the rotation would have Clemens pitching against AL East-leading Boston on June 2 or 3. "I think anything is possible," Clemens said. "If I come out of the first two decent, they'll pull me aside and we'll all visit about that for sure. I don't think it's out of the question." Clemens, who agreed to a $28,000,022, one-year contract on May 6, worked out last week in Lexington, Ky., where his son plays for a Houston Astros minor league club. "I think I'm right where I need to be to get this under way on Friday," Clemens said at a Legends Field news conference. "Endurance and conditioning, I think I'm very close. I've got to get in a game as quick as possible and I'll have a good telltale sign of what happens on Saturday morning." When he rejoined the Astros last year, Clemens agreed to a contract on May 31, made three minor league starts and returned to the majors on June 22. Clemens will likely throw 45- to 60-pitches Friday. He will also work in the bullpen afterward to get his pitch count up to around 90. "I'm getting closer," Clemens said. "I want to be able to perform like I'm supposed to. Hold up my end of the deal. That's the pressure that comes along with it. I have the same question you all do, is my body going to hold up? I can't answer that. All I can do is do the work and get ready for that." Clemens threw his split-finger, slider and two-seam and four-seam fastballs Tuesday. "He was on the money," said Yankees minor leaguer James LaSala, who caught Clemens. "Great stuff. Great command." Clemens also discussed mechanics with several pitchers, including promising rookie right-hander Phil Hughes, Jeff Karstens and minor leaguer Joba Chamberlain, while working on the mound. "I enjoy teaching," Clemens said. "I enjoy working with them, talking to them and trying to answer their questions. I give them credit, they've asked some really detailed questions." The seven-time Cy Young Award winner started his workout by jogging through the area around the complex. He also took part in fielding drills during his hour on the field. Clemens said he has no idea if this will be final season. "How can I answer that?" Clemens said with a smile. "I'm doing so great at retirement. I've been telling you for what, how many years now? I wish I knew that." Notes:@ Clemens said he has talked with Yankees owner George Steinbrenner, who lives in Tampa, but hadn't seen the Boss in person. ... Clemens said he has not been contacted by representatives of the Mitchell commission, which is investigating potential steroids use in baseball. "I don't know anything about that," Clemens said. ... Hughes, on the 15-day disabled list with a hamstring injury, has started a running program. He hasn't reached the point yet to where he can throw off a half-mound. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint.
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/B/BBA_YANKEES_CLEMENS?SITE=TXPLA&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	MyPlainview.com - Plainview Daily Herald May 15, 4:30 PM EDT Yankees' Clemens May Pitch by End of May Bonds and BALCO Timeline Yankees' Clemens May Pitch by End of May Dice-K Throws Complete Game for Red Sox Maddux Goes Distance in Padres Win Cardinals Break Out, Beat Dodgers 8-4 Athletics' Cust on Rise As Power Hitter Buy AP Photo Reprints TAMPA, Fla. (AP) -- Roger Clemens could be ready to pitch for the New York Yankees by the end of May. Clemens threw 71 pitches during his first bullpen session on Tuesday at the Yankees' minor league complex. Barring any problems, Clemens is scheduled to make his first minor league start Friday for Class-A Tampa. He didn't rule out joining the Yankees after two starts in the minors, which would line up him to face Toronto May 28. The next time through the rotation would have Clemens pitching against AL East-leading Boston on June 2 or 3. "I think anything is possible," Clemens said. "If I come out of the first two decent, they'll pull me aside and we'll all visit about that for sure. I don't think it's out of the question." Clemens, who agreed to a $28,000,022, one-year contract on May 6, worked out last week in Lexington, Ky., where his son plays for a Houston Astros minor league club. "I think I'm right where I need to be to get this under way on Friday," Clemens said at a Legends Field news conference. "Endurance and conditioning, I think I'm very close. I've got to get in a game as quick as possible and I'll have a good telltale sign of what happens on Saturday morning." When he rejoined the Astros last year, Clemens agreed to a contract on May 31, made three minor league starts and returned to the majors on June 22. Clemens will likely throw 45- to 60-pitches Friday. He will also work in the bullpen afterward to get his pitch count up to around 90. "I'm getting closer," Clemens said. "I want to be able to perform like I'm supposed to. Hold up my end of the deal. That's the pressure that comes along with it. I have the same question you all do, is my body going to hold up? I can't answer that. All I can do is do the work and get ready for that." Clemens threw his split-finger, slider and two-seam and four-seam fastballs Tuesday. "He was on the money," said Yankees minor leaguer James LaSala, who caught Clemens. "Great stuff. Great command." Clemens also discussed mechanics with several pitchers, including promising rookie right-hander Phil Hughes, Jeff Karstens and minor leaguer Joba Chamberlain, while working on the mound. "I enjoy teaching," Clemens said. "I enjoy working with them, talking to them and trying to answer their questions. I give them credit, they've asked some really detailed questions." The seven-time Cy Young Award winner started his workout by jogging through the area around the complex. He also took part in fielding drills during his hour on the field. Clemens said he has no idea if this will be final season. "How can I answer that?" Clemens said with a smile. "I'm doing so great at retirement. I've been telling you for what, how many years now? I wish I knew that." Notes:@ Clemens said he has talked with Yankees owner George Steinbrenner, who lives in Tampa, but hadn't seen the Boss in person. ... Clemens said he has not been contacted by representatives of the Mitchell commission, which is investigating potential steroids use in baseball. "I don't know anything about that," Clemens said. ... Hughes, on the 15-day disabled list with a hamstring injury, has started a running program. He hasn't reached the point yet to where he can throw off a half-mound. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint.
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/P/PEOPLE_LOHAN_LAWSUIT?SITE=TXPLA&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	MyPlainview.com - Plainview Daily Herald May 15, 4:31 PM EDT NYC Photographer Sues Lohan and Her Mom Mary J. Blige Wins Voice of Music Award NYC Photographer Sues Lohan and Her Mom Stallone Pleads Guilty to Import Charge Lindsay Lohan Tops Maxim `Hot 100' List `Sopranos' Star Drea de Matteo Pregnant Buy AP Photo Reprints Cannes Film Festival Opens, Turns 60 NYC Photographer Sues Lohan and Her Mom Stallone Pleads Guilty to Import Charge Gere Arrest Warrant Suspended DiCaprio Sued Over His Basketball Court NEW YORK (AP) -- Lindsay Lohan and her mother have been sued by a freelance photographer who claims the "Georgia Rule" actress hit him with a car in the West Village. Photographer Giovanni Arnold claims he "sustained severe and permanent personal injuries" when he was struck by the BMW on March 13 on Ninth Avenue between 12th and 13th streets. Arnold suffered injuries to both knees and was "still getting medical treatment," his lawyer, Marc Mauser, said Tuesday. He said Arnold was seeking unspecified monetary damages "for his pain and suffering and his lost wages." Robert Stephan Cohen, a lawyer for Lindsay Lohan and her mother, Dina, was in a meeting Tuesday and wasn't immediately available for comment, his office said. The complaint claims the Lohans were "negligent, careless and reckless" with the vehicle. The lawsuit, filed last Thursday, says the BMW was owned by Dina Lohan and that her daughter was driving it with her permission. Arnold was reportedly among several photographers trailing the 20-year-old actress from a nightclub to the Hotel Gansevoort in the Meatpacking District. Lohan reportedly told the New York Post in March that one of the photographers jumped on the hood of the car, accidentally knocking Arnold down. According to Mauser, Arnold was in front of the BMW when Lohan put it in reverse and then in drive, throwing him on the hood and then the ground. He said the actress stopped to check on Arnold before leaving. The Lohans have 30 days to respond to the lawsuit, filed in state Supreme Court in the Bronx, the borough where Arnold lives. (This version CORRECTS the name and location of the hotel. ) &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint.
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/P/PEOPLE_LOHAN_LAWSUIT?SITE=TXPLA&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	MyPlainview.com - Plainview Daily Herald May 15, 4:31 PM EDT NYC Photographer Sues Lohan and Her Mom Mary J. Blige Wins Voice of Music Award NYC Photographer Sues Lohan and Her Mom Stallone Pleads Guilty to Import Charge Lindsay Lohan Tops Maxim `Hot 100' List `Sopranos' Star Drea de Matteo Pregnant Buy AP Photo Reprints Cannes Film Festival Opens, Turns 60 NYC Photographer Sues Lohan and Her Mom Stallone Pleads Guilty to Import Charge Gere Arrest Warrant Suspended DiCaprio Sued Over His Basketball Court NEW YORK (AP) -- Lindsay Lohan and her mother have been sued by a freelance photographer who claims the "Georgia Rule" actress hit him with a car in the West Village. Photographer Giovanni Arnold claims he "sustained severe and permanent personal injuries" when he was struck by the BMW on March 13 on Ninth Avenue between 12th and 13th streets. Arnold suffered injuries to both knees and was "still getting medical treatment," his lawyer, Marc Mauser, said Tuesday. He said Arnold was seeking unspecified monetary damages "for his pain and suffering and his lost wages." Robert Stephan Cohen, a lawyer for Lindsay Lohan and her mother, Dina, was in a meeting Tuesday and wasn't immediately available for comment, his office said. The complaint claims the Lohans were "negligent, careless and reckless" with the vehicle. The lawsuit, filed last Thursday, says the BMW was owned by Dina Lohan and that her daughter was driving it with her permission. Arnold was reportedly among several photographers trailing the 20-year-old actress from a nightclub to the Hotel Gansevoort in the Meatpacking District. Lohan reportedly told the New York Post in March that one of the photographers jumped on the hood of the car, accidentally knocking Arnold down. According to Mauser, Arnold was in front of the BMW when Lohan put it in reverse and then in drive, throwing him on the hood and then the ground. He said the actress stopped to check on Arnold before leaving. The Lohans have 30 days to respond to the lawsuit, filed in state Supreme Court in the Bronx, the borough where Arnold lives. (This version CORRECTS the name and location of the hotel. ) &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint.
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/B/BRAZIL_MISSIONARY_KILLED?SITE=TXPLA&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	MyPlainview.com - Plainview Daily Herald May 15, 5:09 PM EDT Rancher Guilty in Killing of U.S. Nun Rancher Guilty in Killing of U.S. Nun Pope Assails Marxism and Capitalism Pope News Conference Causes Stir Pope to Canonize First Brazilian Saint Pope Visits Brazil, Church Loses Ground Buy AP Photo Reprints Justice Delayed: Latin America's Dirty Wars Leaning Left: Political Changes in Latin America Rancher Guilty in Killing of U.S. Nun Brazil Indigenous Groups Fault Pope Talk Shake-Up in Colombia's Security Forces Cuba Tries Castro Archenemy in Absentia Colombia Orders More Lawmakers Arrested BELEM, Brazil (AP) -- A Brazilian rancher was convicted Tuesday of ordering the killing of an American nun and rain forest defender in a case seen as an important test of justice in the largely lawless Amazon region. A judge sentenced him to 30 years in prison. Vitalmiro Bastos de Moura "showed a violent personality unsuited to living in society," the judge said in sentencing him to the maximum penalty for the 2005 slaying of 73-year-old Dorothy Stang. The "killing was carried out in violent and cowardly manner," Judge Raymond Moises Alves Flexa said. Stang's brother David, who flew to Brazil for the two-day trial, trembled and wept after the verdict. "Justice was done," he said, adding that he now believed another rancher also accused of ordering his sister's killing may be convicted when he goes to trial later this year. Stang, a naturalized Brazilian originally from Dayton, Ohio, helped build schools and was among the activists who worked to defend the rights of impoverished and exploited farmers drawn to the Amazon region. She also attempted to halt the rampant jungle clearing by loggers and ranchers that has destroyed some 20 percent of the forest cover. Tuesday's verdict came after three other men convicted in connection with the killing - a gunman, his accomplice and a go-between - recanted earlier testimony that Moura had offered them $25,000 to kill Stang in a conflict over land he wanted to log and develop. Human rights defenders said the trial was a key measure of whether the powerful masterminds behind land-related killings can be held accountable in the Amazon state of Para. Of nearly 800 such killings during the past 30 years, only four masterminds have been convicted and none are behind bars. Shortly after Stang's killing, President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva ordered the army into the region, suspended logging permits and ordered large swathes of rain forest off-limits to development. Moura denied ordering the killing during the trial, and his lawyer mounted a lengthy anti-American tirade in his closing arguments, calling Stang "the fruit of a poisoned tree." Accusing the United States of crimes ranging from atom bombs dropped on Japan during World War II to the treatment of prisoners at its Guantanamo Bay detention center in Cuba, defense attorney Americo Leal said Stang "shares this DNA of violence, the DNA to kill." "The victim didn't stop practicing her criminal activity and she died as a result of the violence she tried to implant," he said. David Stang expressed dismay. "The trial's about Bida, Dorothy was the victim," Stang said, referring to Moura by his nickname. "So this fantasy world the defense lawyers are trying to create only maintains this cycle of killings." On Monday, Moura denied he ordered Stang's killing, maintaining he did not even know the nun, who had been organizing poor settlers around the jungle town of Anapu for 23 years. "This thing about money isn't true. This thing about me and Bida talking isn't true," Clodoaldo Carlos Batista said Monday, in recanting his earlier testimony implicating Moura. Batista, who was sentenced to 17 years in prison as an accomplice to gunman Rayfran Neves Sales, claimed he had been coerced into implicating Moura by two American FBI agents who traveled to Brazil shortly after the murder to monitor the police investigation. Both Batista and Sales, who was sentenced to 27 years in prison, claimed the agents threatened to send them to the United States, where they could face the death penalty if they did not cooperate. Brazil does not have the death penalty and the most a convict can serve at a single stretch is 30 years. U.S. Embassy spokesman Richard Mei said Brazil does not allow the extradition of its citizens to other countries for crimes committed in Brazil. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint.
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/B/BRAZIL_MISSIONARY_KILLED?SITE=TXPLA&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	MyPlainview.com - Plainview Daily Herald May 15, 5:09 PM EDT Rancher Guilty in Killing of U.S. Nun Rancher Guilty in Killing of U.S. Nun Pope Assails Marxism and Capitalism Pope News Conference Causes Stir Pope to Canonize First Brazilian Saint Pope Visits Brazil, Church Loses Ground Buy AP Photo Reprints Justice Delayed: Latin America's Dirty Wars Leaning Left: Political Changes in Latin America Rancher Guilty in Killing of U.S. Nun Brazil Indigenous Groups Fault Pope Talk Shake-Up in Colombia's Security Forces Cuba Tries Castro Archenemy in Absentia Colombia Orders More Lawmakers Arrested BELEM, Brazil (AP) -- A Brazilian rancher was convicted Tuesday of ordering the killing of an American nun and rain forest defender in a case seen as an important test of justice in the largely lawless Amazon region. A judge sentenced him to 30 years in prison. Vitalmiro Bastos de Moura "showed a violent personality unsuited to living in society," the judge said in sentencing him to the maximum penalty for the 2005 slaying of 73-year-old Dorothy Stang. The "killing was carried out in violent and cowardly manner," Judge Raymond Moises Alves Flexa said. Stang's brother David, who flew to Brazil for the two-day trial, trembled and wept after the verdict. "Justice was done," he said, adding that he now believed another rancher also accused of ordering his sister's killing may be convicted when he goes to trial later this year. Stang, a naturalized Brazilian originally from Dayton, Ohio, helped build schools and was among the activists who worked to defend the rights of impoverished and exploited farmers drawn to the Amazon region. She also attempted to halt the rampant jungle clearing by loggers and ranchers that has destroyed some 20 percent of the forest cover. Tuesday's verdict came after three other men convicted in connection with the killing - a gunman, his accomplice and a go-between - recanted earlier testimony that Moura had offered them $25,000 to kill Stang in a conflict over land he wanted to log and develop. Human rights defenders said the trial was a key measure of whether the powerful masterminds behind land-related killings can be held accountable in the Amazon state of Para. Of nearly 800 such killings during the past 30 years, only four masterminds have been convicted and none are behind bars. Shortly after Stang's killing, President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva ordered the army into the region, suspended logging permits and ordered large swathes of rain forest off-limits to development. Moura denied ordering the killing during the trial, and his lawyer mounted a lengthy anti-American tirade in his closing arguments, calling Stang "the fruit of a poisoned tree." Accusing the United States of crimes ranging from atom bombs dropped on Japan during World War II to the treatment of prisoners at its Guantanamo Bay detention center in Cuba, defense attorney Americo Leal said Stang "shares this DNA of violence, the DNA to kill." "The victim didn't stop practicing her criminal activity and she died as a result of the violence she tried to implant," he said. David Stang expressed dismay. "The trial's about Bida, Dorothy was the victim," Stang said, referring to Moura by his nickname. "So this fantasy world the defense lawyers are trying to create only maintains this cycle of killings." On Monday, Moura denied he ordered Stang's killing, maintaining he did not even know the nun, who had been organizing poor settlers around the jungle town of Anapu for 23 years. "This thing about money isn't true. This thing about me and Bida talking isn't true," Clodoaldo Carlos Batista said Monday, in recanting his earlier testimony implicating Moura. Batista, who was sentenced to 17 years in prison as an accomplice to gunman Rayfran Neves Sales, claimed he had been coerced into implicating Moura by two American FBI agents who traveled to Brazil shortly after the murder to monitor the police investigation. Both Batista and Sales, who was sentenced to 27 years in prison, claimed the agents threatened to send them to the United States, where they could face the death penalty if they did not cooperate. Brazil does not have the death penalty and the most a convict can serve at a single stretch is 30 years. U.S. Embassy spokesman Richard Mei said Brazil does not allow the extradition of its citizens to other countries for crimes committed in Brazil. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint.
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/P/PADILLA_TERROR_CHARGES?SITE=TXPLA&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	MyPlainview.com - Plainview Daily Herald May 15, 5:15 PM EDT CIA Agent Testifies at Padilla Trial Criminal complaint against Eljvir Duka in Fort Dix plot case Hearing Transcript: Waleed Mohammed bin Attash Hearing Transcript: Khalid Sheikh Mohammed Hearing Transcript Abu Faraj al-Libi Hearing Transcript: Ramzi Binalshibh Declassified Report: Iraq 'Cause Celebre' for Extremists CIA Agent Testifies at Padilla Trial Ex-Spy Chief: al-Qaida Shifting Tactics Terror Suspect Claims CIA Tortured Him Doctor Said He'd Treat Anti-U.S. Forces U.S. Efforts Bear Fruit in Philippines Buy AP Photo Reprints Copy of "mujahedeen data form" linked to Padilla CIA document cited in Padilla case MIAMI (AP) -- A covert CIA officer who was permitted to testify wearing a disguise and using an alias described in court Tuesday how U.S. officials in Afghanistan obtained a truckload of al-Qaida documents, including a form later linked to suspected operative Jose Padilla. The officer, whose true identity is classified, gave his name as Tom Langston. He appeared in court with a beard and glasses, although the nature of the disguise was not obvious or made public. Prosecutors declined to say whether any concealment was even used. The arrangement was approved by U.S. District Judge Marcia Cooke at the request of the CIA, which sought to protect the officer's ability to continue doing clandestine work overseas. It was not disclosed to the jury. Langston testified that he was working in December 2001 at a classified CIA site in Kandahar, Afghanistan, when an Afghan man driving a pickup truck showed up with thousands of pages of documents. Among them was a bright blue binder containing what appeared to be dozens of forms in Arabic, one of which reportedly turned out to be Padilla's. Prosecutors say his fingerprints are on the "mujahedeen data form," which had questions on language skills, military experience, religious education and other areas. The form is crucial to the government's case because it could link Padilla and his two suspected co-conspirators - Adham Amin Hassoun and Kifah Wael Jayyousi - to al-Qaida. The three are charged with being part of a U.S.-based support cell for Islamic extremists around the world, including al-Qaida. The unidentified Afghan man, Langston said, was affiliated with an Afghan tribal leader opposed to the country's Islamic fundamentalist Taliban rulers, who were then battling U.S. forces. Under the Taliban, al-Qaida had established terrorist training camps in Afghanistan in the years leading to the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks. "He was loyal to some individuals who were cooperating with us against the Taliban and the terrorist element," the CIA officer said. The Afghan man told the CIA he collected the documents from a house occupied by Arabs who had fled shortly before the 2001 U.S. invasion and were known locally to be affiliated with al-Qaida. Langston said the man was not paid or given any other benefit by U.S. officials for the documents, although he was prohibited after prosecutors objected from answering questions about whether the man's tribal leader was compensated. "I think he took this initiative on his own," the CIA officer said of the man who brought the documents. At one point, Langston grew reluctant to answer a question from Padilla attorney Orlando do Campo about how CIA officers and analysts handle documents such as those in the binder. "I'm a little uncomfortable answering the question because it gets into methods. I'm sworn to protect sources and methods," he said. The binder and other documents were kept in a locked room at the CIA installation in Kandahar, then placed in boxes and taken on U.S. vehicles and aircraft to the FBI in Islamabad, Pakistan. The binder was in a box labeled "vegetable oil," the CIA officer said. The FBI legal attache there in late 2001, Jennifer Keenan, testified Tuesday that she remembered the binder among 22 boxes, trunks and other containers because it appeared to hold information important for U.S. counterterrorism investigators. "We were very grateful to find this," Keenan said. "I called it a pledge form. It says pledge on it." It wasn't until later that the FBI in Washington was able to link one of the forms to Padilla, who allegedly filled it out under the name Abu Abdullah al-Mujahir in July 2000. A key to making that link was information gathered during U.S. interrogations of other suspected al-Qaida figures, according to documents filed in the Padilla case. Testimony will resume Thursday. Prosecutors say their witnesses will include Yahya Goba, a member of the "Lackawanna Six" group of men who pleaded guilty in 2003 in New York to attending al-Qaida camps. Goba, who received a 10-year prison sentence, will testify that he attended the same camp as Padilla and filled out an identical form, prosecutor Brian Frazier said. Padilla, a 36-year-old former Chicago gang member and U.S. citizen, was arrested by the FBI in May 2002 when he arrived at Chicago's O'Hare International Airport. The Bush administration initially accused him of plotting to detonate a radioactive "dirty bomb" in a U.S. city, but those allegations are not part of the criminal indictment. Padilla was added to the Miami case after 3 1/2 years in military custody as an enemy combatant. His case was the subject of a lengthy legal battle over the president's wartime detention powers over U.S. citizens. Padilla and his two co-defendants face up to life in prison if convicted of all charges. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint.
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/P/PADILLA_TERROR_CHARGES?SITE=TXPLA&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	MyPlainview.com - Plainview Daily Herald May 15, 5:15 PM EDT CIA Agent Testifies at Padilla Trial Criminal complaint against Eljvir Duka in Fort Dix plot case Hearing Transcript: Waleed Mohammed bin Attash Hearing Transcript: Khalid Sheikh Mohammed Hearing Transcript Abu Faraj al-Libi Hearing Transcript: Ramzi Binalshibh Declassified Report: Iraq 'Cause Celebre' for Extremists CIA Agent Testifies at Padilla Trial Ex-Spy Chief: al-Qaida Shifting Tactics Terror Suspect Claims CIA Tortured Him Doctor Said He'd Treat Anti-U.S. Forces U.S. Efforts Bear Fruit in Philippines Buy AP Photo Reprints Copy of "mujahedeen data form" linked to Padilla CIA document cited in Padilla case MIAMI (AP) -- A covert CIA officer who was permitted to testify wearing a disguise and using an alias described in court Tuesday how U.S. officials in Afghanistan obtained a truckload of al-Qaida documents, including a form later linked to suspected operative Jose Padilla. The officer, whose true identity is classified, gave his name as Tom Langston. He appeared in court with a beard and glasses, although the nature of the disguise was not obvious or made public. Prosecutors declined to say whether any concealment was even used. The arrangement was approved by U.S. District Judge Marcia Cooke at the request of the CIA, which sought to protect the officer's ability to continue doing clandestine work overseas. It was not disclosed to the jury. Langston testified that he was working in December 2001 at a classified CIA site in Kandahar, Afghanistan, when an Afghan man driving a pickup truck showed up with thousands of pages of documents. Among them was a bright blue binder containing what appeared to be dozens of forms in Arabic, one of which reportedly turned out to be Padilla's. Prosecutors say his fingerprints are on the "mujahedeen data form," which had questions on language skills, military experience, religious education and other areas. The form is crucial to the government's case because it could link Padilla and his two suspected co-conspirators - Adham Amin Hassoun and Kifah Wael Jayyousi - to al-Qaida. The three are charged with being part of a U.S.-based support cell for Islamic extremists around the world, including al-Qaida. The unidentified Afghan man, Langston said, was affiliated with an Afghan tribal leader opposed to the country's Islamic fundamentalist Taliban rulers, who were then battling U.S. forces. Under the Taliban, al-Qaida had established terrorist training camps in Afghanistan in the years leading to the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks. "He was loyal to some individuals who were cooperating with us against the Taliban and the terrorist element," the CIA officer said. The Afghan man told the CIA he collected the documents from a house occupied by Arabs who had fled shortly before the 2001 U.S. invasion and were known locally to be affiliated with al-Qaida. Langston said the man was not paid or given any other benefit by U.S. officials for the documents, although he was prohibited after prosecutors objected from answering questions about whether the man's tribal leader was compensated. "I think he took this initiative on his own," the CIA officer said of the man who brought the documents. At one point, Langston grew reluctant to answer a question from Padilla attorney Orlando do Campo about how CIA officers and analysts handle documents such as those in the binder. "I'm a little uncomfortable answering the question because it gets into methods. I'm sworn to protect sources and methods," he said. The binder and other documents were kept in a locked room at the CIA installation in Kandahar, then placed in boxes and taken on U.S. vehicles and aircraft to the FBI in Islamabad, Pakistan. The binder was in a box labeled "vegetable oil," the CIA officer said. The FBI legal attache there in late 2001, Jennifer Keenan, testified Tuesday that she remembered the binder among 22 boxes, trunks and other containers because it appeared to hold information important for U.S. counterterrorism investigators. "We were very grateful to find this," Keenan said. "I called it a pledge form. It says pledge on it." It wasn't until later that the FBI in Washington was able to link one of the forms to Padilla, who allegedly filled it out under the name Abu Abdullah al-Mujahir in July 2000. A key to making that link was information gathered during U.S. interrogations of other suspected al-Qaida figures, according to documents filed in the Padilla case. Testimony will resume Thursday. Prosecutors say their witnesses will include Yahya Goba, a member of the "Lackawanna Six" group of men who pleaded guilty in 2003 in New York to attending al-Qaida camps. Goba, who received a 10-year prison sentence, will testify that he attended the same camp as Padilla and filled out an identical form, prosecutor Brian Frazier said. Padilla, a 36-year-old former Chicago gang member and U.S. citizen, was arrested by the FBI in May 2002 when he arrived at Chicago's O'Hare International Airport. The Bush administration initially accused him of plotting to detonate a radioactive "dirty bomb" in a U.S. city, but those allegations are not part of the criminal indictment. Padilla was added to the Miami case after 3 1/2 years in military custody as an enemy combatant. His case was the subject of a lengthy legal battle over the president's wartime detention powers over U.S. citizens. Padilla and his two co-defendants face up to life in prison if convicted of all charges. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint.
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/J/JERRY_FALWELL?SITE=TXPLA&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	MyPlainview.com - Plainview Daily Herald May 15, 5:02 PM EDT TV Evangelist Jerry Falwell Dies at 73 AP Photo/STEPHEN J. BOITANO Televangelist Rev. Jerry Falwell Dies at 73 Buy AP Photo Reprints Photos: Jerry Falwell (1933-2007) Comments on the Death of Jerry Falwell Falwell Changed U.S. Politics TV Evangelist Jerry Falwell Dies at 73 Rev. Jerry Falwell Dies at 73 LYNCHBURG, Va. (AP) -- The Rev. Jerry Falwell, the folksy, small-town preacher who used the power of television to found the Moral Majority and turn the Christian right into a mighty force in American politics during the Reagan years, died Tuesday at 73. Falwell was discovered without a pulse in his office at Liberty University and pronounced dead at a hospital an hour later. Dr. Carl Moore, Falwell's physician, said he had a heart condition and presumably died of a heart rhythm abnormality. Driven into politics by the 1973 Supreme Court ruling that established the right to an abortion, Falwell founded the Moral Majority in 1979. One of the conservative lobbying group's greatest triumphs came just a year later, when Ronald Reagan was elected president. Falwell credited the Moral Majority with getting millions of conservative voters registered, aiding in Reagan's victory and giving Republicans control of the Senate. "I shudder to think where the country would be right now if the religious right had not evolved," he said when he stepped down as Moral Majority president in 1987. Fellow TV evangelist Pat Robertson, himself a one-time GOP candidate for president, declared Falwell "a tower of strength on many of the moral issues which have confronted our nation." The rise of Christian conservatism - and the Moral Majority's full-throated condemnation of homosexuality, abortion and pornography - made Falwell perhaps the most recognizable figure on the evangelical right, and one of the most controversial ones, too. Over the years, Falwell waged a landmark libel case against Hustler magazine founder Larry Flynt over a raunchy parody ad, and created a furor in 1999 when one of his publications suggested that the purse-carrying "Teletubbies" character Tinky Winky was gay. Matt Foreman, executive director of National Gay and Lesbian Task Force, extended condolences to those close to Falwell, but added: "Unfortunately, we will always remember him as a founder and leader of America's anti-gay industry, someone who exacerbated the nation's appalling response to the onslaught of the AIDS epidemic, someone who demonized and vilified us for political gain and someone who used religion to divide rather than unite our nation." The 1980s marked the religious conservative movement's high-water mark. In more recent years, Falwell had become a problematic figure for the GOP. His remarks a few days after Sept. 11, 2001, essentially blaming feminists, gays and liberals for bringing on the terrorist attacks drew a rebuke from the White House, and he apologized. Falwell's declining political star seemed apparent when he quietly led in and out of the Republican Party's 2004 national convention. Just four years earlier, he was invited to pray from the rostrum. The big, blue-eyed preacher with a booming voice started a fundamentalist church in an abandoned bottling plant in Lynchburg in 1956 with just 35 members. He built it into a religious empire that included the 22,000-member Thomas Road Baptist Church, the "Old Time Gospel Hour" carried on TV stations around the country and 7,700-student Liberty University, which Falwell founded in 1971 as Lynchburg Baptist College. From his living room, he broadcast his message of salvation and raised the donations that helped his ministry grow. "He was one of the first to come up with ways to use television to expand his ministry," said Robert Alley, a retired University of Richmond religion professor who studied and criticized Falwell's career. Falwell had once opposed mixing preaching with politics, but changed his views. The Moral Majority grew to 6.5 million members and raised $69 million as it supported conservative politicians and railed against abortion, homosexuality, pornography and bans on school prayer. Falwell became the face of the religious right, appearing on national magazine covers and on talk shows. In 1983, U.S. News & World Report named him one of 25 most influential people in America. "Dr. Falwell was a man of distinguished accomplishment who devoted his life to serving his faith and country," said Sen. John McCain, a GOP presidential contender who during the 2000 primaries referred to Falwell and Robertson as "agents of intolerance." McCain has since distanced himself from those comments. In 1984, Falwell sued Hustler for $45 million, charging that he was libeled by an liquor-ad parody that quoted him as saying he lost his virginity to his mother in an outhouse. A federal jury found the fake ad did not libel him, but awarded him $200,000 for emotional distress. The verdict was overturned in a landmark 1988 U.S. Supreme Court decision that held that even pornographic spoofs about a public figure enjoy First Amendment protection. With Falwell's high profile came frequent criticism, even from fellow ministers. The Rev. Billy Graham once rebuked him for political sermonizing on "non-moral issues." Falwell quit the Moral Majority in 1987, saying he was tired of being "a lightning rod" and wanted to devote his time to his ministry and Liberty University. But he remained outspoken and continued to draw criticism for his remarks. In 1999, he told an evangelical conference that the Antichrist was a male Jew who was probably already alive. Falwell later apologized for the remark but not for holding the belief. A month later, his National Liberty Journal warned parents that Tinky Winky, the children's TV character, was a gay role model and morally damaging to children. Falwell was re-energized after family values proved important in the 2004 presidential election. He formed the Faith and Values Coalition as the "21st Century resurrection of the Moral Majority," to seek anti-abortion judges, a constitutional amendment banning gay marriage and more conservative elected officials. In 1987, Falwell took over the PTL (Praise the Lord) ministry in South Carolina after the Rev. Jim Bakker got caught in a sex and money scandal. Falwell slid fully clothed down a theme park water slide after donors met his fundraising goal to help rescue the rival ministry. He gave it up seven months later after learning the depth of PTL's financial problems. Largely because of the sex scandals involving Bakker and fellow evangelist Jimmy Swaggart, donations to Falwell's ministry dropped from $135 million in 1986 to less than $100 million the following year. Hundreds of workers were laid off and viewers of his television show dwindled. Liberty University was $73 million in debt and on the verge of bankruptcy, and his "Old Time Gospel Hour" was $16 million in debt. By the mid-1990s, two local businessmen with long ties to Falwell began overseeing the finances and helped get companies to forgive debts or write them off. Falwell dreamed that Liberty would grow to 50,000 students and be to fundamentalist Christians what Notre Dame is to Roman Catholics and Brigham Young University is to Mormons. Falwell's father and his grandfather were militant atheists, he wrote in his autobiography. He said his father made a fortune off his businesses - including bootlegging during Prohibition. As a student, Falwell was a star athlete and a prankster who was barred from giving his high school valedictorian's speech after he was caught using counterfeit lunch tickets. He ran with a gang of juvenile delinquents before becoming a born-again Christian at 19. He turned down an offer to play professional baseball and transferred from Lynchburg College to Baptist Bible College in Springfield, Mo. "My heart was burning to serve Christ," he once said in an interview. "I knew nothing would ever be the same again." Falwell had made careful preparations for a transition of his leadership to his two sons, Jerry Falwell, Jr., now vice chancellor of Liberty University, and Jonathan Falwell, executive the pastor of Thomas Road Baptist Church. Falwell is survived by his wife, Macel, his two sons and a daughter, Jeannie Falwell Savas. Funeral arrangements were not immediately known. Former Massachusetts Gov. Mitt Romney, a Mormon whose own faith has become an issue during his run for the presidency, said Falwell "built and led a movement based on strong principles and strong faith," and "the legacy of his important work will continue through his many ministries where he put his faith into action." &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint.
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/J/JERRY_FALWELL?SITE=TXPLA&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	MyPlainview.com - Plainview Daily Herald May 15, 5:02 PM EDT TV Evangelist Jerry Falwell Dies at 73 AP Photo/STEPHEN J. BOITANO Televangelist Rev. Jerry Falwell Dies at 73 Buy AP Photo Reprints Photos: Jerry Falwell (1933-2007) Comments on the Death of Jerry Falwell Falwell Changed U.S. Politics TV Evangelist Jerry Falwell Dies at 73 Rev. Jerry Falwell Dies at 73 LYNCHBURG, Va. (AP) -- The Rev. Jerry Falwell, the folksy, small-town preacher who used the power of television to found the Moral Majority and turn the Christian right into a mighty force in American politics during the Reagan years, died Tuesday at 73. Falwell was discovered without a pulse in his office at Liberty University and pronounced dead at a hospital an hour later. Dr. Carl Moore, Falwell's physician, said he had a heart condition and presumably died of a heart rhythm abnormality. Driven into politics by the 1973 Supreme Court ruling that established the right to an abortion, Falwell founded the Moral Majority in 1979. One of the conservative lobbying group's greatest triumphs came just a year later, when Ronald Reagan was elected president. Falwell credited the Moral Majority with getting millions of conservative voters registered, aiding in Reagan's victory and giving Republicans control of the Senate. "I shudder to think where the country would be right now if the religious right had not evolved," he said when he stepped down as Moral Majority president in 1987. Fellow TV evangelist Pat Robertson, himself a one-time GOP candidate for president, declared Falwell "a tower of strength on many of the moral issues which have confronted our nation." The rise of Christian conservatism - and the Moral Majority's full-throated condemnation of homosexuality, abortion and pornography - made Falwell perhaps the most recognizable figure on the evangelical right, and one of the most controversial ones, too. Over the years, Falwell waged a landmark libel case against Hustler magazine founder Larry Flynt over a raunchy parody ad, and created a furor in 1999 when one of his publications suggested that the purse-carrying "Teletubbies" character Tinky Winky was gay. Matt Foreman, executive director of National Gay and Lesbian Task Force, extended condolences to those close to Falwell, but added: "Unfortunately, we will always remember him as a founder and leader of America's anti-gay industry, someone who exacerbated the nation's appalling response to the onslaught of the AIDS epidemic, someone who demonized and vilified us for political gain and someone who used religion to divide rather than unite our nation." The 1980s marked the religious conservative movement's high-water mark. In more recent years, Falwell had become a problematic figure for the GOP. His remarks a few days after Sept. 11, 2001, essentially blaming feminists, gays and liberals for bringing on the terrorist attacks drew a rebuke from the White House, and he apologized. Falwell's declining political star seemed apparent when he quietly led in and out of the Republican Party's 2004 national convention. Just four years earlier, he was invited to pray from the rostrum. The big, blue-eyed preacher with a booming voice started a fundamentalist church in an abandoned bottling plant in Lynchburg in 1956 with just 35 members. He built it into a religious empire that included the 22,000-member Thomas Road Baptist Church, the "Old Time Gospel Hour" carried on TV stations around the country and 7,700-student Liberty University, which Falwell founded in 1971 as Lynchburg Baptist College. From his living room, he broadcast his message of salvation and raised the donations that helped his ministry grow. "He was one of the first to come up with ways to use television to expand his ministry," said Robert Alley, a retired University of Richmond religion professor who studied and criticized Falwell's career. Falwell had once opposed mixing preaching with politics, but changed his views. The Moral Majority grew to 6.5 million members and raised $69 million as it supported conservative politicians and railed against abortion, homosexuality, pornography and bans on school prayer. Falwell became the face of the religious right, appearing on national magazine covers and on talk shows. In 1983, U.S. News & World Report named him one of 25 most influential people in America. "Dr. Falwell was a man of distinguished accomplishment who devoted his life to serving his faith and country," said Sen. John McCain, a GOP presidential contender who during the 2000 primaries referred to Falwell and Robertson as "agents of intolerance." McCain has since distanced himself from those comments. In 1984, Falwell sued Hustler for $45 million, charging that he was libeled by an liquor-ad parody that quoted him as saying he lost his virginity to his mother in an outhouse. A federal jury found the fake ad did not libel him, but awarded him $200,000 for emotional distress. The verdict was overturned in a landmark 1988 U.S. Supreme Court decision that held that even pornographic spoofs about a public figure enjoy First Amendment protection. With Falwell's high profile came frequent criticism, even from fellow ministers. The Rev. Billy Graham once rebuked him for political sermonizing on "non-moral issues." Falwell quit the Moral Majority in 1987, saying he was tired of being "a lightning rod" and wanted to devote his time to his ministry and Liberty University. But he remained outspoken and continued to draw criticism for his remarks. In 1999, he told an evangelical conference that the Antichrist was a male Jew who was probably already alive. Falwell later apologized for the remark but not for holding the belief. A month later, his National Liberty Journal warned parents that Tinky Winky, the children's TV character, was a gay role model and morally damaging to children. Falwell was re-energized after family values proved important in the 2004 presidential election. He formed the Faith and Values Coalition as the "21st Century resurrection of the Moral Majority," to seek anti-abortion judges, a constitutional amendment banning gay marriage and more conservative elected officials. In 1987, Falwell took over the PTL (Praise the Lord) ministry in South Carolina after the Rev. Jim Bakker got caught in a sex and money scandal. Falwell slid fully clothed down a theme park water slide after donors met his fundraising goal to help rescue the rival ministry. He gave it up seven months later after learning the depth of PTL's financial problems. Largely because of the sex scandals involving Bakker and fellow evangelist Jimmy Swaggart, donations to Falwell's ministry dropped from $135 million in 1986 to less than $100 million the following year. Hundreds of workers were laid off and viewers of his television show dwindled. Liberty University was $73 million in debt and on the verge of bankruptcy, and his "Old Time Gospel Hour" was $16 million in debt. By the mid-1990s, two local businessmen with long ties to Falwell began overseeing the finances and helped get companies to forgive debts or write them off. Falwell dreamed that Liberty would grow to 50,000 students and be to fundamentalist Christians what Notre Dame is to Roman Catholics and Brigham Young University is to Mormons. Falwell's father and his grandfather were militant atheists, he wrote in his autobiography. He said his father made a fortune off his businesses - including bootlegging during Prohibition. As a student, Falwell was a star athlete and a prankster who was barred from giving his high school valedictorian's speech after he was caught using counterfeit lunch tickets. He ran with a gang of juvenile delinquents before becoming a born-again Christian at 19. He turned down an offer to play professional baseball and transferred from Lynchburg College to Baptist Bible College in Springfield, Mo. "My heart was burning to serve Christ," he once said in an interview. "I knew nothing would ever be the same again." Falwell had made careful preparations for a transition of his leadership to his two sons, Jerry Falwell, Jr., now vice chancellor of Liberty University, and Jonathan Falwell, executive the pastor of Thomas Road Baptist Church. Falwell is survived by his wife, Macel, his two sons and a daughter, Jeannie Falwell Savas. Funeral arrangements were not immediately known. Former Massachusetts Gov. Mitt Romney, a Mormon whose own faith has become an issue during his run for the presidency, said Falwell "built and led a movement based on strong principles and strong faith," and "the legacy of his important work will continue through his many ministries where he put his faith into action." &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint.
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/M/MISSING_OFFICER?SITE=TXPLA&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	MyPlainview.com - Plainview Daily Herald May 15, 4:25 PM EDT Search on in S.C. for Missing Officer Buy AP Photo Reprints LADSON, S.C. (AP) -- Dozens of police officers and bloodhounds searched for a missing constable Tuesday after his empty cruiser was found in flames several miles from where he was last seen at a traffic stop, authorities said. Charleston County Sheriff Al Cannon said authorities had identified a "person of interest" who was being sought on an unrelated weapons charge. But he said officials don't know what happened to Robert Lee Bailey, a 66-year-old constable who works for the Lincolnville Police Department. "It certainly does not look good. But we are hopeful. We have no explanation for what occurred," Cannon said. He said the shooting was not believed to be related to the traffic stop. Bailey was last seen when he pulled a vehicle over about 10:30 p.m. Monday in Lincolnville. Witnesses reported hearing gunshots a few minutes later, and Bailey's cap, two guns, bullet casings and blood were found in a yard. About an hour later, a Highway Patrol officer spotted Bailey's burning car in the parking lot of a church off Interstate 26. Cannon said officials wanted to speak to a 24-year-old man wanted on a federal weapons charge. Walter Fayall, of St. Stephens, was being sought by the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms. No charges had been filed against him in the missing officer case. Authorities also issued an alert for a black Chevrolet Caprice. Along highways near Lincolnville, a small town about 20 miles west of Charleston, electronic signs listed a fugitive alert. Gary Tucker, data analyst for Faith Assembly of God Church, saw the charred remains of the cruiser early Tuesday. "I just noticed it was a police car and it was torched. And the back window was smashed out," he said. The South Carolina Law Enforcement Division sent agents to help in the investigation, spokeswoman Kathryn Richardson said. Constables assist law enforcement agencies and may carry firearms. They must complete a basic training course at a state technical college before they can be appointed by the governor. Associated Press Writer Katrina A. Goggins in Columbia contributed to this report. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint.
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/M/MISSING_OFFICER?SITE=TXPLA&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	MyPlainview.com - Plainview Daily Herald May 15, 4:25 PM EDT Search on in S.C. for Missing Officer Buy AP Photo Reprints LADSON, S.C. (AP) -- Dozens of police officers and bloodhounds searched for a missing constable Tuesday after his empty cruiser was found in flames several miles from where he was last seen at a traffic stop, authorities said. Charleston County Sheriff Al Cannon said authorities had identified a "person of interest" who was being sought on an unrelated weapons charge. But he said officials don't know what happened to Robert Lee Bailey, a 66-year-old constable who works for the Lincolnville Police Department. "It certainly does not look good. But we are hopeful. We have no explanation for what occurred," Cannon said. He said the shooting was not believed to be related to the traffic stop. Bailey was last seen when he pulled a vehicle over about 10:30 p.m. Monday in Lincolnville. Witnesses reported hearing gunshots a few minutes later, and Bailey's cap, two guns, bullet casings and blood were found in a yard. About an hour later, a Highway Patrol officer spotted Bailey's burning car in the parking lot of a church off Interstate 26. Cannon said officials wanted to speak to a 24-year-old man wanted on a federal weapons charge. Walter Fayall, of St. Stephens, was being sought by the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms. No charges had been filed against him in the missing officer case. Authorities also issued an alert for a black Chevrolet Caprice. Along highways near Lincolnville, a small town about 20 miles west of Charleston, electronic signs listed a fugitive alert. Gary Tucker, data analyst for Faith Assembly of God Church, saw the charred remains of the cruiser early Tuesday. "I just noticed it was a police car and it was torched. And the back window was smashed out," he said. The South Carolina Law Enforcement Division sent agents to help in the investigation, spokeswoman Kathryn Richardson said. Constables assist law enforcement agencies and may carry firearms. They must complete a basic training course at a state technical college before they can be appointed by the governor. Associated Press Writer Katrina A. Goggins in Columbia contributed to this report. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint.
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/W/WILDFIRES?SITE=TXPLA&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	MyPlainview.com - Plainview Daily Herald May 15, 1:06 PM EDT Hundreds More Flee Massive Fla. Wildfire Winds Fuel Multistate Wildfire Photos: Wildfires Across the U.S. Photos: Wildfire Burns in California Charges Against Crew Boss Hundreds More Flee Massive Fla. Wildfire 2 Kids Charged in Ga. Wildfires Ga. Wildfire Called 'A Long-Term Battle' Buy AP Photo Reprints LAKE CITY, Fla. (AP) -- Authorities evacuated hundreds of homes after a massive wildfire along the Georgia-Florida border jumped a containment line overnight, authorities said Tuesday. Firefighters pushed the flames back to the containment line, but dry weather and 15 mph wind in north Florida was expected to further hinder their work. "If we can just get through today," said Russell Hubright, a U.S. Forest Service spokesman. Between 250 and 500 homes west of U.S. 441 had to be evacuated for a second time when the fire line was breached, Florida Highway Patrol Lt. Michael Burroughs said. An additional 570 people who were ordered out of homes east of the roadway were still waiting to return. The wildfire had raced through the Okefenokee Swamp in southeast Georgia and into northern Florida after being started by lightning more than a week ago. By Tuesday, it had burned 109,000 acres in Florida and 139,813 acres of swampland in Georgia - nearly 390 square miles in all. Flames jumped a containment line at the fire's western edge, but firefighters used bulldozers and water-dropping helicopters to extinguish them, said John Speaks, deputy incident commander with the forest service. The fire was about 1 1/2 miles from U.S. 441. On the western edge of the Okefenokee Swamp in Georgia, Fargo residents were told to stay alert as wind forecast at up to 20 mph pushed the blaze against fire breaks plowed between the swamp and the city of 380 people. "Everybody's being told not to let their guard down, don't unpack," said Laura Polant, a fire information officer in Fargo. "Residents are still being told to be prepared to leave, because the call can come at any time." In Florida, the blaze was 50 percent contained Tuesday. The smoke had lifted enough to open Interstates 10 and 75 to traffic, but drivers were warned that periodic closures were still possible. Another large wildfire, in northeastern Minnesota and Ontario, could be brought under control by the end of the week, officials said. No one has been seriously hurt in the fire, which has burned 117 square miles of Minnesota and Canada, but many cabins and smaller structures - more than 100 in all - have been destroyed. Associated Press writers Russ Bynum in Savannah, Ga., and Jennifer Kay in Miami contributed to this report. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint.
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/W/WILDFIRES?SITE=TXPLA&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	MyPlainview.com - Plainview Daily Herald May 15, 1:06 PM EDT Hundreds More Flee Massive Fla. Wildfire Winds Fuel Multistate Wildfire Photos: Wildfires Across the U.S. Photos: Wildfire Burns in California Charges Against Crew Boss Hundreds More Flee Massive Fla. Wildfire 2 Kids Charged in Ga. Wildfires Ga. Wildfire Called 'A Long-Term Battle' Buy AP Photo Reprints LAKE CITY, Fla. (AP) -- Authorities evacuated hundreds of homes after a massive wildfire along the Georgia-Florida border jumped a containment line overnight, authorities said Tuesday. Firefighters pushed the flames back to the containment line, but dry weather and 15 mph wind in north Florida was expected to further hinder their work. "If we can just get through today," said Russell Hubright, a U.S. Forest Service spokesman. Between 250 and 500 homes west of U.S. 441 had to be evacuated for a second time when the fire line was breached, Florida Highway Patrol Lt. Michael Burroughs said. An additional 570 people who were ordered out of homes east of the roadway were still waiting to return. The wildfire had raced through the Okefenokee Swamp in southeast Georgia and into northern Florida after being started by lightning more than a week ago. By Tuesday, it had burned 109,000 acres in Florida and 139,813 acres of swampland in Georgia - nearly 390 square miles in all. Flames jumped a containment line at the fire's western edge, but firefighters used bulldozers and water-dropping helicopters to extinguish them, said John Speaks, deputy incident commander with the forest service. The fire was about 1 1/2 miles from U.S. 441. On the western edge of the Okefenokee Swamp in Georgia, Fargo residents were told to stay alert as wind forecast at up to 20 mph pushed the blaze against fire breaks plowed between the swamp and the city of 380 people. "Everybody's being told not to let their guard down, don't unpack," said Laura Polant, a fire information officer in Fargo. "Residents are still being told to be prepared to leave, because the call can come at any time." In Florida, the blaze was 50 percent contained Tuesday. The smoke had lifted enough to open Interstates 10 and 75 to traffic, but drivers were warned that periodic closures were still possible. Another large wildfire, in northeastern Minnesota and Ontario, could be brought under control by the end of the week, officials said. No one has been seriously hurt in the fire, which has burned 117 square miles of Minnesota and Canada, but many cabins and smaller structures - more than 100 in all - have been destroyed. Associated Press writers Russ Bynum in Savannah, Ga., and Jennifer Kay in Miami contributed to this report. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint.
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/B/BORDER_BIOMETRICS?SITE=NJVIN&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	The Daily Journal - www.thedailyjournal.com - Vineland, N.J. Welcome to The Daily Journal - Vineland, N.J. May 15, 6:36 PM EDT AP IMPACT: Laser Visas Are Rarely Used Border Inspectors Rarely Scan New Visas Buy AP Photo Reprints Graphic of "laser visas" designed for use on the U.S.-Mexico border SAN DIEGO (AP) -- The face- and fingerprint-matching technology that has been touted over the past decade as a sophisticated new way to stop terrorists and illegal immigrants from entering the country through Mexico has one major drawback: U.S. border inspectors almost never use it. In fact, the necessary equipment is not even installed in vehicle lanes along the border. Government officials told The Associated Press that checking more people would create too big a backup at the border, where hours-long traffic jams are already common. Some members of Congress who voted for the system in 1996 are complaining they were misled. They said the intent was to use biometrics - or a person's unique physical traits - to screen everyone. "Congress would not have gone to the trouble of requiring biometric features on the border crossing card if it knew the administration would not require that those features be read by scanners," said Rep. Lamar Smith, R-Texas, who wrote the legislation. The U.S. government has spent tens of millions of dollars issuing visa cards digitally embedded with the holder's photo and fingerprints. Holders of the cards come across the border tens of millions of times each year. But on average, in only about 2 percent of those cases are the cardholders screened with the biometric technology to verify their identities and check law-enforcement records, said Paul Morris, Customs and Border Protection's executive director of admissibility requirements and migration control. The checks are done consistently only on the small portion of cardholders who seek permission to travel beyond the border region. "As the technology becomes available, we can expand the current level of biometric matching," Morris said. "There is not a technology solution currently available that will not cause delays that are well beyond the acceptable levels." Beginning in 1998, the high-tech "laser visas" have been issued to 9.1 million Mexicans for short visits to the United States. The laser visas, which look like driver's licenses, have a 1.4-inch optical memory stripe holding personal information such as name, gender and birth date. The stripe also stores the owner's digitized facial photo and two fingerprints. Cardholders coming across the border may be asked to press their fingers against a glass and pose for a photo, while their card pulls up their biometric file - a process that takes an extra 30 seconds or so per person. The photo and fingerprints can also be instantly checked against criminal and terrorist watch lists. The laser visas entitle Mexicans to travel 25 miles from the border - slightly farther in Arizona - for 30 days. Cardholders can also apply for a permit to travel anywhere in the U.S. for up to six months. Border inspectors routinely swipe the laser visas through a machine to retrieve the basic personal information and to call up a photo. But, with some exceptions, the inspectors use the facial- and fingerprint-matching technology only for those applying at the border for one of the six-month permits, Morris said. That practice means that most of those who are checked are not selected at random; they know they are going to be scanned when they come across. The government contract for laser visas was worth $28.6 million from 2000 to 2006, and Homeland Security awarded a five-year renewal in March to General Dynamics Corp. worth $28.5 million, according to Homeland Security. That price tag excludes the cost of opening new consulates to handle the rush of applicants. The State Department established consulates across the border from Laredo, Texas, and Nogales, Ariz. In Tijuana, Mexico, the consulate took over an old gymnasium across town. The 1996 law said anyone presenting a border crossing card "is not permitted to cross over the border into the U.S. unless the biometric identifier contained on the card matches the appropriate biometric characteristics of the alien." But Sandra Raynes, consular officer at the U.S. consulate in Tijuana, said: "If they were to check everyone, you'd have lines all the way down to Cabo San Lucas," about 1,100 miles south of San Diego. U.S. officials said biometrics are only part of its effort to stem illegal crossings. An inspector's wits and agency intelligence are also key, they said. Biometrics "is one tool in our toolbox," said Kelly Klundt, a Customs and Border Protection spokeswoman. Also, the laminated cards have reduced fraud because they are difficult to counterfeit, officials said. Older visas looked like crumpled library cards, some dating to the 1950s. Authorities said women in their 60s used cards with photographs of teenage girls because the cards had no expiration dates. Former Rep. Jim Kolbe, a Republican who left Congress in January after 22 years representing a district on the Arizona border, said lawmakers expected checks on all cardholders, though there was no timetable. "We definitely intended to go further with it than we have," he said. "Ten years later, it seems incredible that we've only gotten this far with it." The 14 pedestrian booths at San Ysidro, the nation's busiest border crossing by far, are equipped with fingerprint glass but no cameras. But that glass is not used on the 30,000 people who walk though daily. There is neither type of equipment in the 24 vehicle lanes, which handle about 35,000 cars and 250 buses a day. Applicants for the six-month permits are asked to pull aside into a small parking lot, get out and walk up to a booth, where they are fingerprinted and photographed for verification. Initially, border crossings did not even have equipment to lift personal information off the cards, let alone the biometric data. Jeffrey Davidow, U.S. ambassador to Mexico from 1998 to 2001, recalls members of Congress visiting the border to see the machines, which were never used when the lawmakers were gone. "I'd tell them that it was all show, that it doesn't work, that the card is not doing what it's supposed to do," Davidow said. He said his warnings elicited shrugs. There were also technological setbacks. Equipment to verify photos and fingerprints often failed to read through sweat, scratches and other wallet "crud," according to an internal Homeland Security report. A test at five Texas crossings in the spring of 2004 showed that 731 out of 1,740 cards, or 42 percent, were unreadable, according to the report, which was provided to The Associated Press by someone who insisted on anonymity because the government did not authorize its release. Homeland Security officials did not have more recent figures on how many cards are correctly read. But they said technical problems have been resolved. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. Copyright &#169; The Daily Journal. Users of this site agree to the .Build 16: 32 ms (NewsList)
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/V/VETERANS_CARE_BONUSES?SITE=NJVIN&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	The Daily Journal - www.thedailyjournal.com - Vineland, N.J. Welcome to The Daily Journal - Vineland, N.J. May 15, 6:40 PM EDT VA Bonus Winners Sat on Review Boards AP Photo/Pablo Martinez Monsivais VA Bonus Winners Sat on Review Boards Summary Box: VA Officials Get Big Bonus Buy AP Photo Reprints WASHINGTON (AP) -- Nearly two dozen officials who received hefty performance bonuses last year at the Veterans Affairs Department also sat on the boards charged with recommending the payments. Documents obtained by The Associated Press raise questions of conflicts of interest or appearances of conflicts in connection with the bonuses, some of which went to senior officials involved in crafting a budget that came up $1.3 billion short and jeopardized veterans' health care. The documents show that 21 of 32 officials who were members of VA performance review boards received more than half a million dollars in payments themselves. Among them: nearly a dozen senior officials who devised the flawed 2005 budget. Also rewarded was the deputy undersecretary for benefits, who manages a system with severe backlogs of veterans waiting for disability benefits. Deputy undersecretaries who sit on the review boards, which are appointed by VA Secretary Jim Nicholson, also had input on bonus recommendations involving themselves, fellow members and spouses that made questionable performance claims and neglected agency problems. The VA, which has defended the bonuses as necessary to retain hardworking senior employees, says board members do not participate in bonus decisions that involve themselves or fellow board members. In those cases, recommendations are made by agency heads in consultation with deputy undersecretaries, who usually serve as supervisors to their fellow board members, the agency says. But government watchdogs were harshly critical, saying the process does little to instill public confidence in the fairness of awards. In its last known report on the issue - one involving NASA - the Government Accountability Office in 1980 urged that performance boards add credibility and objectivity to their decisions by including "one or more impartial members from outside the agency," although agencies are not required to do so. With the exception of a panel tasked with reviewing the VA inspector general's office, all the VA's performance board members come from within the agency. In one case, Michael Walcoff, associate deputy undersecretary for field operations who sits on two of the review boards, and his wife, Kimberly, a VA director, received a package of bonuses totaling $42,000. "This is a scandal in the making," said Paul C. Light, professor of public service at New York University who specializes in government reform. He said the VA bonuses pointed to possible "featherbedding" and other favoritism. Light said given the current problems in veterans care, the department would be best served if Nicholson restricted most performance bonuses for at least a year except in cases of clear improvement. "This is not the time for largesse for the Department of Veterans Affairs," Light said. "They must not make a link between retention and employees, but employees and performance as an incentive to solve these very serious problems." Following reports this month by the AP of the $3.8 million in bonuses, groups such as the Veterans of Foreign Wars and the Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America have called on Nicholson to explain why officials involved in budget foul-ups would be rewarded. Annual bonuses to senior VA officials last year averaged more than $16,000, the highest average in government. Rep. John Hall, D-N.Y., has introduced legislation that would freeze 2007 VA bonuses for "senior politically appointed officers" - such as assistant secretaries or deputy undersecretaries - until the agency pares its disability claims backlog to under 100,000 cases. The VA says deputy undersecretaries are career employees, and a committee spokeswoman acknowledged that was the case. "It is simply unacceptable that veterans are waiting longer and longer for benefits they desperately need while senior staff members in charge of bad policy are rewarded so-called performance bonuses," Hall said. The legislation, originally scheduled for a vote Tuesday, was expected to be considered along with other veterans health care bills later this month, a spokeswoman for Hall said. Under a federal law passed in 1978 to increase government accountability by tying bonuses more closely to performance, agencies are required to appoint performance review boards yearly to guarantee bonus awards are "fair and credible." According to guidance by the U.S. Office of Personnel Management, performance boards must ensure that bonuses are given based not only on individual accomplishments cited by supervisors, but also the department's overall success. However, 2006 bonus proposals obtained by the AP show that senior officials who received top payments of $33,000 were sometimes credited for achievements that were questionable, if not inaccurate. Also, no mention was made of agency-wide problems. -Rita Reed, deputy assistant secretary for budget: "Demonstrated the ability to design and implement strategies that maximize employee potential and foster high ethical standards in meeting the organization's mission and goals." While touting her role in launching programs to "leverage the VA's buying power" as well as collecting $5.1 million in erroneous payments, the proposal does not mention Reed's lead role in crafting the VA's flawed 2005 budget. Months prior to her bonus award, GAO investigators determined the VA had used misleading accounting to justify health cuts, claiming false savings in part by double-counting savings from volume purchasing in government contracts from year to year. -William Feeley, deputy undersecretary for health for operations and management: "Made numerous contributions to veterans and the Veterans Health Administration in his role as deputy undersecretary." It said he also led systemwide improvements that resulted in a 2.2 percent decrease in wait times for primary care. Feeley received a top bonus and is credited for yearlong achievements even though he did not take the job until February 2006, nearly halfway into the fiscal year. Previously, he was a VA regional director who played a role in the flawed 2005 budget. Regarding veterans' wait times to see doctors, a 2005 report from the VA inspector general found that VA schedulers routinely put the wrong requested appointment dates into the system, which made reported wait times appear shorter than they really were. The IG has said problems lingered in 2006 despite VA promises. -Ronald Aument, deputy undersecretary for benefits: "His knowledge of VBA programs and operations and his breadth of experiences across VA have contributed greatly to VBA's progress in improving services to veterans." Aument helps manage a disability claims system that has backlogs of 400,000 to 600,000 veterans. The waits average 177 days, two months short of the VA's strategic goal of 125 days to process claims. Nicholson has called the delays unacceptable. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. Copyright &#169; The Daily Journal. Users of this site agree to the .Build 16: 32 ms (NewsList)
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/W/WALL_STREET?SITE=NJVIN&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	The Daily Journal - www.thedailyjournal.com - Vineland, N.J. Welcome to The Daily Journal - Vineland, N.J. May 15, 6:33 PM EDT Stocks Retreat After Housing Report By JOE BEL BRUNO AP Photo/Henny Ray Abrams AP Money Minute: Gas Prices, Reuters, Homes Reuters Among Wall Street's Big Movers Stocks Retreat After Housing Report Wall St. Awaits Inflation, Housing Data Wal-Mart to Focus on Price After Outlook Home Depot 1Q Profit Drops 29.5 Percent DaimlerChrysler 1st-Quarter Profit Rises Nokia Says Market Share Will Grow in 2Q Hershey Cuts 2007 Earnings Estimate Toll Bros. to Miss Earnings Projections Federal Reserve Details Post-9/11 Effort Wal-Mart to Focus on Price After Outlook Reuters Agrees to $17.6B Thomson Buyout Bill Would Ban Some Credit Card Actions Limited to Sell Most of Express Brand Buy AP Photo Reprints NEW YORK (AP) -- Wall Street gave up a huge advance and closed mixed Tuesday after an unimpressive snapshot of the housing market unsettled investors. The Dow Jones industrials, which surpassed 13,400 early in the session, slipped back but still eked out a record close. Investors who initially bought enthusiastically following a tame reading on inflation decided to cash in some of their gains after the National Association of Homebuilders said its housing index dropped to 30 from 33 in April, indicating a deteriorating housing outlook. The stock market followed a months-long pattern of rising on upbeat economic data only to give back gains on the latest report of a decline in housing. The day's movement also followed the recent pattern of blue-chip stocks performing better than their smaller counterparts. "We've got a real dichotomy going on here," said Stephen Massocca, president of Pacific Growth Equities. "Big corporate America, the staid and stodgy companies, are doing well. They're going up today. Stocks that are riskier, stocks that are smaller, stocks in the emerging market vein or technology vein, those are being sold." The Dow had surged more than 130 points by midday trading, breezing past 13,400 after the inflation data raised hopes that the Federal Reserve might cut interest rates later this year. The Labor Department said prices paid by consumers rose less than expected in April, and indicated that inflation may be easing as the economy continues to cool. The consumer price index rose 0.4 percent after rising 0.6 percent in March, while core prices - which exclude food and energy - rose 0.2 percent after a 0.1 percent gain. The Dow rose 37.06, or 0.28 percent, to 13,383.84, after rising to a new trading high of 13,481.60. The modest climb nudged the blue-chip index to its 22nd record close this year. Broader indexes slipped. The Standard & Poor's 500 index fell 1.96, or 0.13 percent, at 1,501.19. The technology-dominated Nasdaq composite index fell 21.15, or 0.83 percent, to 2,525.29. "I think you've got certainly a slower economy, and companies and people aren't all that keen to spend on new technology," said Scott Wren, senior equity strategist at AG Edwards. "There's also a lot of competition in the market, so the Nasdaq is likely to lag a little." Since the Dow broke through 12,000 for the first time in October, it has become almost routine for the blue chip index to set new records. The overall market advance has also lifted the S&P 500 near its record close of 1,527.46, reached in the spring of 2000. However, the Nasdaq still remains well off its closing high of 5,048.62, also reached during the peak of the dot-com boom; the index was overinflated by investors rushing to buy any high-tech stock. Investors have been driven by optimism that the Fed is done with its campaign of rate hikes, and that it will soon start lowering rates. Still, when new data reminds them of the fragility of the housing markets, they tend to retrench as they did Tuesday. Bond prices finished lower after the mixed data. The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note rose to 4.71 percent from 4.69 percent late Monday. The dollar fell against other major currencies, while gold prices advanced. A barrel of light sweet crude rose 71 cents to $63.17 on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Concerns lingered in the commodities market about refinery problems and uncertainties over whether U.S. gasoline inventories can meet summer driving demand. Investors were mostly undeterred by disappointing first-quarter results from Dow components Home Depot Inc. and Wal-Mart Stores Inc. Both companies are considered to be barometers of consumer spending, and weaker sales were interpreted as another sign of a slowing economy that could also motivate the Fed to cut rates. Home Depot, the nation's largest home improvement chain, posted lower quarterly profit as a sluggish U.S. housing market dented sales. Sales at stores open at least a year, an important measure of how retailers fared, slumped 7.6 percent. Wal-Mart Stores, the world's largest retailer, missed Wall Street projections and warned second-quarter results might be disappointing. Last week, it reported April same-store sales were the weakest its history for April. Shares of Wal-Mart fell 22 cents to $47.62, while Home Depot shed 71 cents to $38.30. Lowe's Cos., the second-largest home improvement chain, fell 10 cents to $30.89. Reuters Group PLC agreed Tuesday to a $17.2 billion takeover by Thomson Corp. that would vault the combined entity ahead of Bloomberg to become the world's largest financial data and news provider. Shares of Reuters rose $2.72, or 3.8 percent, to $74.34; Thomson rose 16 cents to $42.16. Declining issues outnumbered advancers by about 3 to 2 on the New York Stock Exchange, where consolidated volume came to 3.09 billion shares, up from 2.65 billion Friday. The Russell 2000 index of smaller companies fell 8.15, or 0.99 percent, to 814.18. Overseas, Japan's Nikkei stock average closed down 0.93 percent. Britain's FTSE 100 gained 0.20 percent, Germany's DAX index rose 0.61 percent, and France's CAC-40 added 0.39 percent. New York Stock Exchange: &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. Copyright &#169; The Daily Journal. Users of this site agree to the .Build 16: 32 ms (NewsList)
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/B/BRAZIL_MISSIONARY_KILLED?SITE=NJVIN&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	The Daily Journal - www.thedailyjournal.com - Vineland, N.J. Welcome to The Daily Journal - Vineland, N.J. May 15, 6:37 PM EDT Brazil Man Guilty in Killing of U.S. Nun Brazil Man Guilty in Killing of U.S. Nun Pope Assails Marxism and Capitalism Pope News Conference Causes Stir Pope to Canonize First Brazilian Saint Pope Visits Brazil, Church Loses Ground Buy AP Photo Reprints Justice Delayed: Latin America's Dirty Wars Leaning Left: Political Changes in Latin America Brazil Man Guilty in Killing of U.S. Nun Colombia Admits Wiretapping Operation Brazil Indigenous Groups Fault Pope Talk Shake-Up in Colombia's Security Forces Cuba Tries Castro Archenemy in Absentia BELEM, Brazil (AP) -- A Brazilian rancher was convicted Tuesday of ordering the killing of American nun and rain forest defender Dorothy Stang in a case seen an important test of justice in the largely lawless Amazon region. A judge sentenced him to 30 years in prison. Vitalmiro Bastos de Moura was found guilty of masterminding the shooting of 73-year-old Stang on Feb. 12, 2005, along a muddy stretch of road deep in the rain forest. Judge Raymond Moises Alves Flexa sentenced Moura to 30 years in prison, the maximum sentence, in a case seen as a test of whether the government could crack down on lawlessness in the Amazon. Moura "showed a violent personality unsuited to living in society," the judge said, adding that the "killing was carried out in violent and cowardly manner." Stang's brother David, who flew to Brazil for the trial, trembled and cried after the verdict. "Justice was done," he said, adding that he now believed another rancher accused of ordering the killing may be convicted when he goes to trial later this year. The conviction came even though three other men convicted in connection with the killing - a gunman, his accomplice and a go-between - recanted earlier testimony that the rancher had offered them 50,000 reals (US$25,000; euro18,400) to kill the nun. Moura is one of two ranchers accused of ordering Stang's killing in a conflict over land he wanted to log and develop but she wasn't trying to protect. Stang, a naturalized Brazilian originally from Dayton, Ohio, helped build schools and was among the activists who have tried to defend the rights of impoverished and often exploited farmers drawn to the Amazon region. She also attempted to halt the rampant jungle clearing by loggers and ranchers that has already ripped away some 20 percent of the forest cover. Human rights defenders said the trial was a key measure of whether the powerful masterminds behind land-related killings can be held accountable in the Amazon state of Para. Of nearly 800 such killings in Para during the past 30 years, only four masterminds have been convicted and none are behind bars. Shortly after Stang's killing, President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva ordered the army into the region, suspended logging permits, and ordered large swathes of rain forest off-limits to development. Moura in court denied ordering the killing, and his lawyer mounted a lengthy anti-American tirade in his closing argument in an attempt to win freedom for his client. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. Copyright &#169; The Daily Journal. Users of this site agree to the .Build 16: 32 ms (NewsList)
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/E/EAVESDROPPING?SITE=NJVIN&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	The Daily Journal - www.thedailyjournal.com - Vineland, N.J. Welcome to The Daily Journal - Vineland, N.J. May 15, 6:46 PM EDT White House Pressed Ashcroft on Wiretaps AP-Ipsos Poll: Bush and Congress White House Pressed Ashcroft on Wiretaps House Bill Offers Student Loan Incentive House Votes to Restrict Mexican Trucks Senators Aim to Save Kids From Backovers House Increases Money for Police Program The 110th Congress' First 100 Hours Sen. Max Baucus: The AP Interview Mark Foley Scandal Timeline Harry Reid Land Deal Congressional Leadership Financial Disclosure Harry Reid's Ties to Abramoff DeLay and Blunt: Following the Money Congress Goes to Bat for Tribes Buy AP Photo Reprints WASHINGTON (AP) -- A top Justice Department official thought President Bush's no-warrant wiretapping program was so questionable that he refused for a time to reauthorize it, leading to a standoff with White House officials at the bedside of the ailing attorney general, a Senate panel was told Tuesday. Former Deputy Attorney General James Comey told the Senate Judiciary Committee that he refused to recertify the program because Attorney General John Ashcroft had reservations about its legality just before falling ill with pancreatitis in March 2004. The White House, Comey said, recertified the program without the Justice Department's signoff, allowing it to operate for about three weeks without concurrence on whether it was legal. Comey, Ashcroft, FBI Director Robert Mueller and other Justice Department officials at one point considered resigning, Comey said. "I couldn't stay, if the administration was going to engage in conduct that the Department of Justice had said had no legal basis," Comey told the panel. A day after the March 10, 2004, incident at Ashcroft's hospital bedside, President Bush ordered changes to the program to accommodate the department's concerns. Ashcroft signed the presidential order to recertify the program about three weeks later. The dramatic hospital confrontation involved Comey, the acting attorney general during Ashcroft's absence, and a White House team that included Bush's then-counsel, Alberto Gonzales, and White House Chief of Staff Andy Card, Comey said. Gonzales later succeeded Ashcroft as attorney general. Senior government officials had expressed concerns about whether the National Security Agency, which administered the warrantless eavesdropping program, had the proper oversight in place. Other concerns included whether any president possessed the legal and constitutional authority to authorize the program as it operated at the time. Comey testified Tuesday that when he refused to certify the program, Gonzales and Card headed to Ashcroft's sick bed in the intensive care unit at George Washington University Hospital. When Gonzales appealed to Ashcroft, the ailing attorney general lifted his head off the pillow and in straightforward terms described his views of the program, Comey said. Then he pointed out that Comey, not Ashcroft, held the powers of the attorney general at that moment. Gonzales and Card then left the hospital room, Comey said. "I was angry," Comey told the panel. "I thought I had just witnessed an effort to take advantage of a very sick man who did not have the powers of the attorney general." Comey's testimony revived one of the Bush administration's most bitter internal fights just as Gonzales appeared less under siege about the firings of several U.S. attorneys last year. Bush has stood solidly by his longtime counselor's side; calls for Gonzales' resignation have waned in recent weeks. Asked about Comey's testimony, White House press secretary Tony Snow said he didn't know anything about the conversation at Ashcroft's bedside. But he defended the program. "Because he had an appendectomy, his brain didn't work?" Snow said of Ashcroft. "Jim Comey can talk about whatever reservations he may have had. But the fact is that there were strong protections in there, this program has saved lives and it's vital for national security and furthermore has been reformed in a bipartisan way." Dean Boyd, a Justice Department spokesman, said he couldn't comment on "internal discussions that may or may have not taken place concerning classified intelligence activities." But he said the program succeeded in helping detect and prevent terrorist attacks and was always subject to rigorous oversight and review. Democrats cited Comey's testimony as evidence of what they say is Gonzales' tendency to put loyalty to Bush ahead of most everything - including Justice's tradition of independence from the politics of the White House. "What happened in that hospital room crystallized Mr. Gonzales' view about the rule of law: that he holds it in minimum low regard," said Sen. Chuck Schumer, D-N.Y. Under questioning by Sen. Arlen Specter, R-Pa., Comey said he was not threatened by Vice President Dick Cheney or other White House officials who disagreed with him on the legality of the eavesdropping program. Comey recalled that after the bedside incident he started to offer his resignation and was persuaded to wait a few days until Ashcroft could resign with him. "Mr. Ashcroft's chief of staff asked me something that meant a great deal to him, and that is that I not resign until Mr. Ashcroft was well enough to resign with me," Comey said. On March 12 at their daily briefing of the president, Bush asked Comey and Mueller for separate private conversations on Justice's concerns about the eavesdropping program. There, Comey said, Bush agreed to do "the right thing." "We had the president's direction to do what we believed, what the Justice Department believed, was necessary to put this matter on a footing where we could certify to its legality," Comey said of the period after those private meetings. "We did that." Spokesmen for Ashcroft and Mueller refused requests for comment. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. Copyright &#169; The Daily Journal. Users of this site agree to the .Build 16: 32 ms (NewsList)
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/J/JERRY_FALWELL?SITE=NJVIN&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	The Daily Journal - www.thedailyjournal.com - Vineland, N.J. Welcome to The Daily Journal - Vineland, N.J. May 15, 6:42 PM EDT TV Evangelist Jerry Falwell Dies at 73 AP Photo/STEPHANIE KLEIN DAVIS Televangelist Rev. Jerry Falwell Dies at 73 Michael Reagan says he's glad that the Reverend Jerry Falwell got involved in politics. Buy AP Photo Reprints Photos: Jerry Falwell (1933-2007) TV Evangelist Jerry Falwell Dies at 73 A Look at Falwell's Surviving Allies Comments on the Death of Jerry Falwell Falwell Changed U.S. Politics Rev. Jerry Falwell Dies at 73 LYNCHBURG, Va. (AP) -- The Rev. Jerry Falwell was stricken at his campus office and died Tuesday after a career in which the evangelist used the power of television to transform the religious right into a mighty force in American politics. He was 73. The founder of the Moral Majority was discovered without a pulse at Liberty University and pronounced dead at a hospital an hour later. Dr. Carl Moore, Falwell's physician, said he had a heart condition and presumably died of a heart rhythm abnormality. Driven into politics by the 1973 Supreme Court ruling that established the right to an abortion, Falwell founded the Moral Majority in 1979. One of the conservative lobbying group's greatest triumphs came just a year later, when Ronald Reagan was elected president. Falwell credited the Moral Majority with getting millions of conservative voters registered, aiding in Reagan's victory and giving Republicans control of the Senate. "I shudder to think where the country would be right now if the religious right had not evolved," he said when he stepped down as Moral Majority president in 1987. Fellow TV evangelist Pat Robertson, himself a one-time GOP candidate for president, declared Falwell "a tower of strength on many of the moral issues which have confronted our nation." The rise of Christian conservatism - and the Moral Majority's full-throated condemnation of homosexuality, abortion and pornography - made Falwell perhaps the most recognizable figure on the evangelical right, and one of the most controversial ones, too. Over the years, Falwell waged a landmark libel case against Hustler magazine founder Larry Flynt over a raunchy parody ad, and created a furor in 1999 when one of his publications suggested that the purse-carrying "Teletubbies" character Tinky Winky was gay. Matt Foreman, executive director of National Gay and Lesbian Task Force, extended condolences to those close to Falwell, but added: "Unfortunately, we will always remember him as a founder and leader of America's anti-gay industry, someone who exacerbated the nation's appalling response to the onslaught of the AIDS epidemic, someone who demonized and vilified us for political gain and someone who used religion to divide rather than unite our nation." The 1980s marked the religious conservative movement's high-water mark. In more recent years, Falwell had become a problematic figure for the GOP. His remarks a few days after Sept. 11, 2001, essentially blaming feminists, gays and liberals for bringing on the terrorist attacks drew a rebuke from the White House, and he apologized. Falwell's declining political star seemed apparent when he was quietly led in and out of the Republican Party's 2004 national convention. Just four years earlier, he was invited to pray from the rostrum. The big, blue-eyed preacher with a booming voice started a fundamentalist church in an abandoned bottling plant in Lynchburg in 1956 with just 35 members. He built it into a religious empire that included the 24,000-member Thomas Road Baptist Church, the "Old Time Gospel Hour" carried on TV stations around the country and 9,600-student Liberty University, which Falwell founded in 1971 as Lynchburg Baptist College. From his living room, he broadcast his message of salvation and raised the donations that helped his ministry grow. "He was one of the first to come up with ways to use television to expand his ministry," said Robert Alley, a retired University of Richmond religion professor who studied and criticized Falwell's career. Alley died last summer. Falwell had once opposed mixing preaching with politics, but changed his views. The Moral Majority grew to 6.5 million members and raised $69 million as it supported conservative politicians and railed against abortion, homosexuality, pornography and bans on school prayer. Falwell became the face of the religious right, appearing on national magazine covers and on talk shows. In 1983, U.S. News & World Report named him one of 25 most influential people in America. "Jerry's passions and convictions changed the course of our country for the better over the last 20 years," said James Dobson, founder of the conservative Christian Focus on the Family ministry. "It was Jerry who led an entire wing of Christianity, the fundamentalist wing, away from isolation and into a direct confrontation with the culture." "Dr. Falwell was a man of distinguished accomplishment who devoted his life to serving his faith and country," said Sen. John McCain, a GOP presidential contender who during the 2000 primaries referred to Falwell and Robertson as "agents of intolerance." McCain has since distanced himself from those comments. In 1984, Falwell sued Hustler for $45 million, charging that he was libeled by an liquor-ad parody that quoted him as saying he lost his virginity to his mother in an outhouse. A federal jury found the fake ad did not libel him, but awarded him $200,000 for emotional distress. The verdict was overturned in a landmark 1988 U.S. Supreme Court decision that held that even pornographic spoofs about a public figure enjoy First Amendment protection. With Falwell's high profile came frequent criticism, even from fellow ministers. The Rev. Billy Graham once rebuked him for political sermonizing on "non-moral issues." Falwell quit the Moral Majority in 1987, saying he was tired of being "a lightning rod" and wanted to devote his time to his ministry and Liberty University. But he remained outspoken and continued to draw criticism for his remarks. In 1999, he told an evangelical conference that the Antichrist was a male Jew who was probably already alive. Falwell later apologized for the remark but not for holding the belief. A month later, his National Liberty Journal warned parents that Tinky Winky, the children's TV character, was a gay role model and morally damaging to children. Falwell was re-energized after family values proved important in the 2004 presidential election. He formed the Faith and Values Coalition as the "21st Century resurrection of the Moral Majority," to seek anti-abortion judges, a constitutional amendment banning gay marriage and more conservative elected officials. In 1987, Falwell took over the PTL (Praise the Lord) ministry in South Carolina after the Rev. Jim Bakker got caught in a sex and money scandal. Falwell slid fully clothed down a theme park water slide after donors met his fundraising goal to help rescue the rival ministry. He gave it up seven months later after learning the depth of PTL's financial problems. Largely because of the sex scandals involving Bakker and fellow evangelist Jimmy Swaggart, donations to Falwell's ministry dropped from $135 million in 1986 to less than $100 million the following year. Hundreds of workers were laid off and viewers of his television show dwindled. Liberty University was $73 million in debt and on the verge of bankruptcy, and his "Old Time Gospel Hour" was $16 million in debt. By the mid-1990s, two local businessmen with long ties to Falwell began overseeing the finances and helped get companies to forgive debts or write them off. Falwell dreamed that Liberty would grow to 50,000 students and be to fundamentalist Christians what Notre Dame is to Roman Catholics and Brigham Young University is to Mormons. Falwell's father and his grandfather were militant atheists, he wrote in his autobiography. He said his father made a fortune off his businesses - including bootlegging during Prohibition. As a student, Falwell was a star athlete and a prankster who was barred from giving his high school valedictorian's speech after he was caught using counterfeit lunch tickets. He ran with a gang of juvenile delinquents before becoming a born-again Christian at 19. He turned down an offer to play professional baseball and transferred from Lynchburg College to Baptist Bible College in Springfield, Mo. "My heart was burning to serve Christ," he once said in an interview. "I knew nothing would ever be the same again." Falwell had made careful preparations for a transition of his leadership to his two sons, Jerry Falwell, Jr., now vice chancellor of Liberty University, and Jonathan Falwell, executive the pastor of Thomas Road Baptist Church. Falwell is survived by his wife, Macel, his two sons and a daughter, Jeannie Falwell Savas. Funeral arrangements were not immediately known. Former Massachusetts Gov. Mitt Romney, a Mormon whose own faith has become an issue during his run for the presidency, said Falwell "built and led a movement based on strong principles and strong faith," and "the legacy of his important work will continue through his many ministries where he put his faith into action." &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. Copyright &#169; The Daily Journal. Users of this site agree to the .Build 16: 32 ms (NewsList)
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/B/BKN_MVP_MAVERICKS_NOWITZKI?SITE=NJVIN&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	The Daily Journal - www.thedailyjournal.com - Vineland, N.J. Welcome to The Daily Journal - Vineland, N.J. May 15, 6:34 PM EDT Mavs' Nowitzki First European Named MVP Excerpt of 911 call in Artest domestic violence case (mp3) Source: NBA Suspends 2 Suns, 1 Spur Mavs' Nowitzki First European Named MVP Heat's Wade Has Knee, Shoulder Surgery Dirk Nowitzki Wins NBA MVP Honors Suns' Late Run Helps Top Spurs in Game 4 James, Cavs Close in on East Finals Raptors' Colangelo Named Top NBA Exec Jazz Beat Warriors, Take 3-1 Series Lead Missed Free Throws Hurt Warriors at Home Bulls Top Pistons, Avoid Playoff Sweep Buy AP Photo Reprints DALLAS (AP) -- As a teenager in Germany, Dirk Nowitzki stayed up late to watch the NBA finals and got up early to watch All-Star games. He worked on his shot every day and came home to a room with a poster of Scottie Pippen on the wall. Barely 20 when he was drafted, Nowitzki wasn't sure he was ready for the NBA. Even after his rookie season, he wondered "if I had it, if I was going to make it in this league." "I just kept on working, kept learning, kept my confidence up as much as I could," he said. Nowitzki smiled as he shared those memories Tuesday, standing a few feet from an NBA MVP trophy with his name etched into it. Having long since conquered his doubts, Nowitzki put a permanent stamp on his career by winning this award - the first for a European, for someone who didn't go to high school or college in the United States, and for a member of the Dallas Mavericks. It also was the rare instance of the honor going to a player who couldn't get his team out of the playoffs' first round, but commissioner David Stern, Dallas coach Avery Johnson and Mavericks owner Mark Cuban did their best to keep the focus on the things Nowitzki did right this season and throughout his nine-year career. Stern praised Nowitzki as "an iconic, elite athlete from Europe who has not only learned to play our game, he's mastered it." Cuban became emotional talking about his star player's work ethic and desire. "You don't have to encourage him to get into the gym, he's the guy you have to lock out," Cuban said. "He's not the guy who you wonder if he cares, he's the guy who hurts so much when things don't go the way you want. That's what makes him an MVP. He's an example ... that you don't have to fit a certain role, a certain model, but if you work hard enough and care enough, anything is possible." About the only person dragging the mood down was Nowitzki. "Even when I heard I was MVP, I was sad to watch all these playoff games and know that we're not a part of it," Nowitzki said. "It's heartbreaking still to me. I was trying to be positive and be really happy, but it's going to take a while for it to really sink in." Nowitzki led the Mavericks to 67 wins, a total eclipsed by only five teams in NBA history. He was the team's top scorer (24.6 points per game) and rebounder (8.9 per game), and averaged a career-high 3.4 assists. He also was the only player in the league to shoot better than 50 percent from the field, 40 percent on 3-pointers and 90 percent on free throws. He was listed first on 83 of the 129 ballots, garnering a total of 1,138 points, to end the two-year MVP reign of his close friend and former teammate Steve Nash of the Phoenix Suns. "I'm extremely proud of him and happy for him," Nash said. "I think it's really well-deserved. Hopefully he gets a chance to enjoy it regardless of their playoff outcome, because he had a phenomenal year and he really deserves it." Nash finished second with 1,013 points and 44 first-place votes. He could have joined Larry Bird, Wilt Chamberlain and Bill Russell as the only players to be named MVP in three straight years. Kobe Bryant of the Los Angeles Lakers got the remaining two first-place votes. San Antonio's Tim Duncan was fourth and Cleveland's LeBron James was fifth. The vote was based on regular-season play, with ballots due before the playoffs started. The result might have been different, otherwise, because of how poorly Nowitzki played in Dallas' first-round elimination by Golden State, one of the biggest upsets in NBA history. Stern dismissed the idea of Nowitzki's victory prompting a change in voting to include some or all of the playoffs. It's worth noting that five of the previous seven MVPs did not lead their team to the championship; however, it had been 25 years (Houston's Moses Malone in 1981-82) since an MVP failed to win a single playoff series. "It happens," Stern said. "The beauty of sports is you take nothing for granted. Obviously Dirk was disappointed with the way the season ended, but he should feel quite good about his place in history for the season he led the Mavs to." Nowitzki takes a lot of pride in how far he's come in his career. He thanked his first coach, current Warriors coach Don Nelson, for daring to "have a 7-footer dribble up the ball and shoot 3-pointers" and credited Johnson for helping round out his game during the last two years. "Once you're at this stage, I think everything that you've put into it comes through your mind - all the hard work, all the hours you put in," he said. "It's just very fulfilling." Nowitzki started playing basketball when he was 13. A few years later, he began working with Holger Geschwindner, the captain of West Germany's 1972 Olympic team. Their plan to get him into the NBA was creating a 7-footer who could shoot 3s. Once they succeeded, they kept tinkering, adding skills every year. Even after turning Nowitzki into an All-Star and now an MVP, they're still building. He leaves Wednesday for about a month of traveling, then he'll head back into the basketball laboratory. "I still feel like there's a lot I can pick up," said Nowitzki, who turns 29 next month. The one thing he can't change for at least a year is his growing reputation for playoff failure. "I understand there are a lot of stars in history and present who are great players and never really won a championship. As of now, I'm in that category," Nowitzki said. "The only good thing is ... I feel like I'm in the prime of my career. Hopefully I've got a lot of great postseason runs left." AP Sports Writer Bob Baum in Phoenix contributed to this report. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. Copyright &#169; The Daily Journal. Users of this site agree to the .Build 16: 32 ms (NewsList)
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/S/SHOCK_JOCKS_SEX_COMMENT?SITE=NJVIN&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	The Daily Journal - www.thedailyjournal.com - Vineland, N.J. Welcome to The Daily Journal - Vineland, N.J. May 15, 6:35 PM EDT XM Suspends Opie and Anthony for 30 Days Buy AP Photo Reprints McLEAN, Va. (AP) -- XM Satellite Radio suspended shock jocks Opie and Anthony for 30 days Tuesday, one week after they aired crude sex comments about Condoleezza Rice, Laura Bush and Queen Elizabeth II and one day after they made light of the incident in their broadcast. "Comments made by Opie and Anthony on yesterday's broadcast put into question whether they appreciate the seriousness of the matter," Washington-based XM said in a statement. "The management of XM Radio decided to suspend Opie and Anthony to make clear that our on-air talent must take seriously the responsibility that creative freedom requires of them." Opie and Anthony, who last week apologized for the sex comments, struck a more defensive tone on Monday's broadcast. They lamented the state of radio and what they perceived as excessive reactions to comments made by themselves and other radio disc jockeys. "We're under the same scrutiny as (National Public Radio) - it doesn't make sense," they said on Monday's show. The pair also expressed sympathy for Don Imus, saying his career is now "gone, just because he was trying to entertain people." Last month, cable network MSNBC dropped its simulcast of Imus' show, then CBS Radio fired him for using racist and sexist terms to describe the Rutgers women's basketball team. On May 9, Opie and Anthony, whose full names are Greg "Opie" Hughes and Anthony Cumia, aired a segment with a man they call Homeless Charlie. As the names of Rice, Bush and the queen came up, Charlie said in vulgar terms that he would like to have sex with each of them. Opie and Anthony laughed as they imagined Rice's "horror" while describing a violent sexual encounter in which Rice is punched in the face. Opie and Anthony were fired by CBS Radio in 2002 after broadcasting a call from two listeners who said they were having sex in New York's St. Patrick's Cathedral. XM hired the pair in 2004. Because the show airs on satellite radio, its content is not subject to regulation by the Federal Communications Commission. Opie and Anthony also host a syndicated, tamer terrestrial radio program for CBS. Opie and Anthony will be on the air for that program as scheduled Wednesday morning, CBS Radio said Tuesday. A call to Opie and Anthony's agent, Robert Eatman, was not immediately returned Tuesday. A spokesman for XM Satellite Radio Holdings Inc. declined to say whether Opie and Anthony would be paid during their suspension, calling it a contractual matter. Associated Press Writer Larry McShane in New York contributed to this report. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. Copyright &#169; The Daily Journal. Users of this site agree to the .Build 16: 32 ms (NewsList)
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/V/VITAMINS_PROSTATE?SITE=NJVIN&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	The Daily Journal - www.thedailyjournal.com - Vineland, N.J. Welcome to The Daily Journal - Vineland, N.J. May 15, 6:36 PM EDT Study: Vitamins Tied to Prostate Cancer Buy AP Photo Reprints WASHINGTON (AP) -- There's more worrisome news about vitamins: Taking too many may increase men's risk of dying from prostate cancer. The study, being published Wednesday, doesn't settle the issue. But it is the biggest yet to suggest high-dose multivitamins may harm the prostate, and the latest chapter in the confusing quest to tell whether taking various vitamins really helps a variety of conditions - or is a waste of money, or worse. Government scientists turned to a study tracking the diet and health of almost 300,000 men. About a third reported taking a daily multivitamin, and 5 percent were heavy users, swallowing the pills more than seven times a week. Within five years of the study's start, 10,241 men had been diagnosed with prostate cancer. Some 1,476 had advanced cancer; 179 died. Heavy multivitamin users were almost twice as likely to get fatal prostate cancer as men who never took the pills, concludes the study in Wednesday's Journal of the National Cancer Institute. Here's the twist: Overall, the researchers found no link between multivitamin use and early-stage prostate cancer. The researchers speculate that perhaps high-dose vitamins had little effect until a tumor appeared, and then could spur its growth. While similar but smaller studies have suggested a link, too, more rigorous research is needed, caution the National Cancer Institute scientists. This newest study involves men who voluntarily took vitamins, and those most at risk - perhaps because they had a family history of the disease - may have been more likely to take the pills in hopes of avoiding their fate. Still, "the findings lend further credence to the possibility of harm associated with increased use of supplements," Dr. Christian Gluud of Copenhagen University Hospital and Dr. Goran Bjelakovic of Serbia's University of Nis wrote in an accompanying editorial. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. Copyright &#169; The Daily Journal. Users of this site agree to the .Build 16: 32 ms (NewsList)
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/F/FIRED_PROSECUTORS?SITE=NJVIN&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	The Daily Journal - www.thedailyjournal.com - Vineland, N.J. Welcome to The Daily Journal - Vineland, N.J. May 15, 6:43 PM EDT Gonzales: Deputy Was Pointman on Firings By LARA JAKES JORDAN AP Photo/Haraz N. Ghanbari Buy AP Photo Reprints Alberto Gonzales: A Career Timeline The Fired Prosecutors: A Primer List of Sampson Documents Withheld from Congress Part I: Sampson-Miers e-mails Part II: Sampson-Miers e-mails Gonzales: Deputy Was Pointman on Firings Deputy Attorney General to Resign Post Gonzales Deflects Democrats' Criticism Excerpts From Gonzales Hearing WASHINGTON (AP) -- Attorney General Alberto Gonzales said Tuesday he relied heavily on his deputy to oversee the firings of U.S. attorneys, appearing to distance himself from his departing second-in-command. Gonzales' comments came the day after Deputy Attorney General Paul McNulty said he would step down by the end of summer, a decision that people familiar with his plans said was hastened by the controversy over last year's firings of eight prosecutors. "At the end of the day, the recommendations reflected the views of the deputy attorney general. He signed off on the names," Gonzales told reporters after a speech about Justice Department steps to curb rising violent crime. "The one person I would care about would be the views of the deputy attorney general, because the deputy attorney general is the direct supervisor of the United States attorneys," Gonzales said. McNulty, reached in San Antonio after Gonzales' remarks, declined to respond. Gonzales has said he most valued McNulty's opinions about firing the prosecutors, now under investigation by Congress to determine if they were politically motivated. But his remarks Tuesday, on the heels of McNulty's resignation, underscored weeks of strain between the two men and their staffs. It also raised questions of whether McNulty's resignation also was ordered, despite his insistence that it was his own decision to step down. Gonzales, a longtime friend and adviser to President Bush, has so far survived calls for his own resignation. "At the end of the day, that really is a question for the president of the United States," the attorney general said anew Tuesday. "He gets to make that call." On Capitol Hill, lawmakers from both parties defended McNulty and rapped Gonzales' leadership of the Justice Department. Sen. Arlen Specter, top Republican on the Senate Judiciary Committee, called McNulty a "professional" and then added: "It's embarrassing for a professional to work for the Department of Justice today." "It is hard to see how the Department of Justice can function and perform its important duties with Mr. Gonzales remaining where he is," said Specter, R-Pa. House Judiciary Chairman John Conyers, D-Mich., questioned whether McNulty was being made to take the blame for the department's botched handling of the firings. "With this Justice Department, the buck always stops somewhere else, and the fall guy is always the last guy out of the door," said Conyers. McNulty has acknowledged approving, last October, the list of prosecutors who were ordered to leave. But documents released by the Justice Department show he was not closely involved in picking all the U.S. attorneys who were put on the list - a job mostly driven by two Gonzales staffers with little prosecutorial experience. Gonzales ultimately signed off on the list. He said he was reassured by McNulty as recently as March that the firings were justified. Gonzales called McNulty's pending departure "a loss. ... I'm really going to miss him." White House spokesman Tony Snow said McNulty's departure would not affect Gonzales' standing with the president. "Paul also served this country very well and we certainly thank him for his service, but it certainly does not change the way in which we view the attorney general," Snow said. "Instead, what we do is we thank Paul for his service." Former federal terrorism prosecutor Aitan Goelman, who attended Gonzales' speech, said the attorney general seemed intent on highlighting McNulty's role in the controversy. "It clearly seemed deliberate," said Goelman, who was hired to work at Justice Department headquarters during the GOP administration of President George H.W. Bush and continued working for Democratic Attorney General Janet Reno. "He took pains to describe McNulty as someone who was closely consulted and in the loop." Gonzales also disagreed with his former deputy attorney general, Jim Comey, who earlier this month told a House panel that senior Justice aides may have permanently tarnished the department if they, as alleged, hired career prosecutors based on political affiliations. "Sometimes mistakes happen," Gonzales said. "This is a great institution that always recovers from those mistakes." Comey, testifying at a Senate panel at almost the same time, said he had a high opinion of Gonzales - and most of the U.S. attorneys who were fired. "He was smart and engaged," Comey said of Gonzales. "I did not have reason to question his judgment as attorney general." &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. Copyright &#169; The Daily Journal. Users of this site agree to the .Build 16: 32 ms (NewsList)
