http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/09/dining/09mini.html	A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks - New York Times A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Tony Cenicola/The New York Times See a key to the items in this photograph Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 9, 2007 THE question I’m asked more often than any other is, “What kitchen equipment should I buy?” Skip to next paragraph Tony Cenicola/The New York Times 10-inch nonstick frying pan, $12.95. Like cookbooks, kitchen equipment is a talisman; people believe that buying the right kind will make them good cooks. Yet some of the best cooks I’ve known worked with a battered batterie de cuisine: dented pots and pans scarred beyond recognition, an old steak knife turned into an all-purpose tool, a pot lid held just so to strain pasta when the colander was missing, a food processor with a busted switch. They didn’t complain and they didn’t apologize; they just cooked. But famous TV chefs use gorgeous name-brand equipment, you might say. And you’d be right. But a.) they get much of that stuff free, the manufacturers hoping that placing it in the hands of a well-known chef will make you think it’s essential; b.) they want their equipment to be pretty, so you’ll think they’re important; and c.) see above: a costly knife is not a talisman and you are not a TV chef. Finally (and this is crucial), the best chefs may use the best-looking equipment when they are in public view, but when it is time to buy equipment for the people who actually prepare those $200 restaurant meals, they go to a restaurant supply house to shop for the everyday cookware I recommend to people all the time. In fact, I contend that with a bit of savvy, patience and a willingness to forgo steel-handle knives, copper pots and other extravagant items, $200 can equip a basic kitchen that will be adequate for just about any task, and $300 can equip one quite well. To prove my point I put together a list of everything needed for almost any cooking task. I bought most of the equipment at Bowery Restaurant Supply, 183 Bowery Street (Delancey Street), where the bill came to just about $200. Throw in a few items the store didn’t have and a few extras, and the total would be about $300. (New York happens to have scores of restaurant supply shops, but every metropolitan area has at least one.) I started with an eight-inch, plastic-handle stainless alloy chef’s knife for $10. This is probably the most essential tool in the kitchen. People not only obsess about knives (and write entire articles about them), but you can easily spend over $100 on just one. Yet go into any restaurant kitchen and you will see most of the cooks using this same plastic-handle Dexter-Russell tool. (Go to the wrong store and you’ll spend $20 or even $30 on the same knife.) I found an instant-read thermometer, a necessity for beginning cooks and obsessive-compulsives, for $5. Three stainless steel bowls — not gorgeous and maybe a little thin — set me back about $5. You are reading that right. Sturdy tongs, an underappreciated tool: $3.50 (don’t buy them too long, make sure the spring is nice and tight, and don’t shop for them at a “culinary” store, where they’ll cost four times as much). For less than $6 I picked up a sturdy sheet pan. It’s not an ideal cookie sheet but it’s useful for roasting and baking (not a bad tray, either, and one of the more common items in restaurant kitchens). A plastic cutting board was about the same price. For aesthetic purposes I’d rather have wood, but plastic can go into the dishwasher. At $3, a paring knife was so cheap I could replace it every year or two. I splurged on a Japanese mandoline for $25. (It’s not indispensable, but since my knife skills are pathetic, I use mine whenever I want thin, even slices or a real julienne.) You, or the college graduate you are thinking of, might own some of the things I bought: a $4 can opener; a vegetable peeler (I like the U-shaped type, which cost me $3); a colander ($7, and I probably could’ve gotten one cheaper). You are thinking to yourself: “Humph. He’s ignoring pots and pans, the most expensive items of all.” Au contraire, my friend; I bought five, and I could live with four (though I’d rather have six): a small, medium and large cast-aluminum saucepan (total: about $30); a medium nonstick cast aluminum pan (10-inch; $13); and a large steep-sided, heavier duty steel pan (14-inch; $25). I bought a single lid ($5; I often use plates or whatever’s handy for lids because I can never find the right one anyway). Next Article in Dining & Wine (1 of 17) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. HABITATS/Brooklyn Heights; 4-Star Dinners Conjured From A 1-Star Kitchen THE MEDIA EQUATION; Rachael Ray Gives the Gift Of Time Top of the Food Chain Next Article in Dining & Wine (1 of 17) &#x00bb; A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Find home & garden professionals in your area today In Home & Garden: View all Home & Garden Classifieds Post Your Ad Now! Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/business/10flyboy.html	The Real Owner of All Those Planes - New York Times The Real Owner of All Those Planes Axel Koester for The New York Times Steven Udvar-Hazy, head of International Lease Finance, dictates plane design to companies like Boeing and Airbus. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 LOS ANGELES — When Steven Udvar-Hazy was a teenager in New York City, he would often head after school to Idlewild Airport, as Kennedy International was known then, to watch planes take off and land. Skip to next paragraph A Fleet of Airplanes, For Lease Airplanes symbolized freedom to the young Mr. Hazy, whose family moved from Hungary when he was 12. For hours, he would spot different aircraft and pore over timetables to figure out where they were coming from, or headed to. Today, if anyone were to watch planes taking off at Kennedy — or at most airports around the world — they probably would be looking at planes owned by Mr. Hazy, a billionaire three times over and one of the most powerful players in commercial aviation. As founder and chief executive of the Los Angeles-based International Lease Finance Corporation, Mr. Hazy has a fleet of 824 Boeings and Airbuses, with 254 more on order, that dwarfs any airline’s in the world. He owns more planes than the industry leader, American Airlines, which has 679, and more than the combined holdings of (265), Lufthansa (245) and But Mr. Hazy prefers to keep a low profile, a rarity in an industry that has attracted more than its share of big egos. He rarely grants interviews, and is more than happy to let his 157 customers — airlines like Cathay Pacific, Air France and American — paint their names and logos on his jets. “Not to put too fine a point on it, but in our industry, Steve Hazy is God,” said Edmund S. Greenslet, editor of . “No one has more influence than he does. He has an enormous impact on how manufacturers design their planes. He’s the financial engine for airlines around the world.” Airlines lease airplanes for the same reason that cash-short consumers lease cars — they can get new models for lower payments. Nearly half of the airplanes flying today are leased by the airlines, and Mr. Hazy, with his $45 billion portfolio, is the biggest player, as measured by dollar volume, followed by In the 35 years he has been in business, Mr. Hazy has ordered 706 jets and around 600 from Airbus, making him the top customer for both companies. And they are eagerly courting him now in advance of the Paris Air Show, where he is expected to announce a big new order. His personal wealth is measured at $3.1 billion, putting him at No. 83 on the Forbes list of richest Americans. And, Mr. Hazy’s place in aviation history was secure even before a $65 million donation helped get his name on the Smithsonian National Air and Space Museum Center at Dulles Airport. Mr. Hazy became a pioneer in airplane leasing while still in his 20s, and is widely credited with creating an industry now valued at $129 billion. He raised cash from a small group of fellow Hungarian émigrés and started making deals while an economics student at U.C.L.A. As a junior in 1966, he advised Aer Lingus on how to save money by reducing the aircraft types in its fleet, and, as a senior, he brokered the sale of a turboprop from Air New Zealand to Reeve Aleutian Airlines. In 1973, he founded his leasing company with two partners, and invested $150,000 to buy a used DC-8 to lease to Aeroméxico. The group soon switched to the newest models. Mr. Hazy’s two partners, a Hungarian father-and-son team, are today each worth around $1.6 billion, according to the Forbes’ list. For Mr. Hazy, aviation is as much about emotion as business. “For a lot of people, it is hard to understand what it was like to be a child behind the Iron Curtain in the 1950s, when the cold war was burning strong,” said Mr. Hazy, in an interview in his opulent office in Century City, Calif. “As a child, you get a lot of indoctrination. You feel trapped, like a prisoner. So I always associated planes with escape and freedom, and still do.” Mr. Hazy said the idea to lease aircraft came to him when he saw the shift in the late 1960s from turboprops to jet planes. “That transition involved a quantum leap in capital costs,” said Mr. Hazy, who flies his own Gulfstream V and who wore an Hermès tie with airplanes on it, airplane cuff links and an airplane lapel pin. He recounted that he saw that airlines “needed outside financing from someone friendly and catering to the industry, and not just from a bank.” Today, Mr. Hazy has a staff of 170 employees in the top two floors of the MGM Tower (his penthouse office has a working fireplace). Nearly 2,000 models of airplanes decorate his offices. “He lives and breathes the industry,” said John Leahy, the chief Airbus salesman. “When he was dating his wife, Christine, his idea of a exciting date was to go to the end of the runway and tell her about the DC-8 overhead.” His company, I.L.F.C., went public in 1983, when it had a market value of around $100 million. It was acquired by the in 1990 for $1.3 billion. In 2006, I.L.F.C. had pretax earnings of $716 million on revenue of $4.1 billion. Mr. Hazy has shown an uncanny knack for picking winners among aircraft types, and avoiding deals with airlines that went bankrupt. He buys planes with price tags like $40 million for a Boeing 737 and $200 million for a 747 (though he never pays list price, of course, since he buys in bulk and is such an important customer). He then spreads them around to many carriers, a process he calls seeding. “If we buy 50 planes,” said Mr. Hazy, “there could be 75 more sales from us indirectly.” Not surprisingly, his opinions are treated like gospel within the industry, and Boeing, Airbus and leading jet engine makers often seek out his advice. More Articles in Business &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Itineraries; Tax Bites on Travelers Go Deeper SQUARE FEET; Many Private Planes to Store, but Not Enough Hangars Buffett's Baby Is Taking a Bumpy Ride Square Feet; Little by Little, an Overnight Success More Articles in Business &#x00bb; A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/nyregion/10rent.html	New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze - New York Times New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Robert Stolarik for The New York Times Kate Harvey, left, and Rebecca Kotler Wein, lived in an office with seven roommates. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 Like the legions of aspiring poets, tap dancers and musicians who came before her, Nina Rubin, a 29-year-old graduate of , has struggled to find halfway decent housing in New York. Earlier this year, she ended up in her most unusual home yet: an office. Skip to next paragraph After taking a job as an instructor at Outward Bound, Ms. Rubin, along with some of her co-workers, settled into the top floor of the organization’s Long Island City headquarters. She camped out in a bunk bed; others converted nearby office cubicles into sleeping spaces, or pitched tents on the building’s roof. To create some privacy, they hung towels and sheets around their bunks. While Outward Bound officials stress that they view these cubicles and tents as temporary housing solutions, Ms. Rubin, who has since moved to Vermont for a short while, was grateful for a free place. As the apartment-hunting season begins, fueled by college graduates and other new arrivals, real estate brokers say radical solutions among young, well-educated newcomers to the city are becoming more common, because New York’s rental market is the tightest it has been in seven years. High-paid bankers and corporate lawyers snap up the few available apartments, often leading more modestly paid professionals and students to resort to desperate measures to find homes. While young people in New York have always sought roommates to make life more affordable, they are now crowding so tightly into doorman buildings in prime neighborhoods like the Upper East Side that they may violate city codes. They are doing so in part because the vacancy rate for Manhattan rentals is now estimated at 3.7 percent, according to data collected by Property and Portfolio Research, an independent real estate research and advisory firm in Boston. It is expected to shrink to 3.3 percent by the end of this year and to 2.9 percent by 2011. “It’s only going to get more difficult to rent an apartment in ,” said Andy Joynt, a real estate economist with the research firm. “While rents continue to rise, it’s not sending people out of the city. There’s still enough of a cachet,” he said. While New York City has always had a vacancy rate lower than most other cities, rental prices jumped last year by a record 8.3 percent. Some potential buyers, scared by the national slowdown in housing sales, decided to rent instead of buy. The housing crunch has also been exacerbated by the steady growth of newcomers. The relocation division of the brokerage company Prudential Douglas Elliman had found homes for 4,000 families moving to the New York, New Jersey and Connecticut area in 2006, a 15 percent jump from the year before, and many of them wanted to live in Manhattan. Stephen Kotler, executive vice president of the division, said he expected business to increase by 15 percent again this year, based on the requests he has already received from banks, consumer-products companies and media firms. Even though his clients can afford high rents, he said, they do not have many choices. “There’s going to be limited inventory and a lot of demand,” Mr. Kotler said. “There just hasn’t been enough rental product built,” he said, as, developers have said that the price of land and the costs of construction in the last few years have made it impractical to build rental buildings. They have instead focused on condominiums. Renters without high salaries have not been shut out of the market. They are squeezing in extra roommates or making alterations as never before much to the frustration of landlords. The rents for one-bedroom apartments in Manhattan average $2,567 a month, and two-bedrooms average $3,854 a month, according to data from Citi Habitats, a large rental brokerage company, but rents tend to be far higher in coveted neighborhoods like the Upper West Side and TriBeCa. Because landlords typically require renters to earn 40 times their monthly rent in annual income, renters of those average apartments would need to earn at least $102,680, individually or combined, to qualify for a one-bedroom and $154,160 to afford a two-bedroom. Young people making a fraction of those salaries are doubling up in small spaces and creating housing code violations, said Jamie Heiberger-Jacobsen, a real estate lawyer with her own practice. She is representing landlords in 26 cases that claim overcrowding or illegal alterations in elevator buildings in Murray Hill, the Upper East and Upper West Sides and the Lower East Side. A year ago, she handled a half-dozen such cases. More Articles in New York Region &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Board Urges Modest Range for Rises in Stabilized Rents SQUARE FEET; Placing Bets on a Strong Manhattan Market Rexford Tompkins, 90; Helped Shape City's Rent Stabilization City Seeks Broader Power to Fix Troubled Buildings at Landlords' Expense More Articles in New York Region &#x00bb; A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Construction Workers Lunching on a Crossbeam, 1932 Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/business/10flyboy.html?ex=1336449600&en=0736256c5b0943a7&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	The Real Owner of All Those Planes - New York Times The Real Owner of All Those Planes Axel Koester for The New York Times Steven Udvar-Hazy, head of International Lease Finance, dictates plane design to companies like Boeing and Airbus. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 LOS ANGELES — When Steven Udvar-Hazy was a teenager in New York City, he would often head after school to Idlewild Airport, as Kennedy International was known then, to watch planes take off and land. Skip to next paragraph A Fleet of Airplanes, For Lease Airplanes symbolized freedom to the young Mr. Hazy, whose family moved from Hungary when he was 12. For hours, he would spot different aircraft and pore over timetables to figure out where they were coming from, or headed to. Today, if anyone were to watch planes taking off at Kennedy — or at most airports around the world — they probably would be looking at planes owned by Mr. Hazy, a billionaire three times over and one of the most powerful players in commercial aviation. As founder and chief executive of the Los Angeles-based International Lease Finance Corporation, Mr. Hazy has a fleet of 824 Boeings and Airbuses, with 254 more on order, that dwarfs any airline’s in the world. He owns more planes than the industry leader, American Airlines, which has 679, and more than the combined holdings of (265), Lufthansa (245) and But Mr. Hazy prefers to keep a low profile, a rarity in an industry that has attracted more than its share of big egos. He rarely grants interviews, and is more than happy to let his 157 customers — airlines like Cathay Pacific, Air France and American — paint their names and logos on his jets. “Not to put too fine a point on it, but in our industry, Steve Hazy is God,” said Edmund S. Greenslet, editor of . “No one has more influence than he does. He has an enormous impact on how manufacturers design their planes. He’s the financial engine for airlines around the world.” Airlines lease airplanes for the same reason that cash-short consumers lease cars — they can get new models for lower payments. Nearly half of the airplanes flying today are leased by the airlines, and Mr. Hazy, with his $45 billion portfolio, is the biggest player, as measured by dollar volume, followed by In the 35 years he has been in business, Mr. Hazy has ordered 706 jets and around 600 from Airbus, making him the top customer for both companies. And they are eagerly courting him now in advance of the Paris Air Show, where he is expected to announce a big new order. His personal wealth is measured at $3.1 billion, putting him at No. 83 on the Forbes list of richest Americans. And, Mr. Hazy’s place in aviation history was secure even before a $65 million donation helped get his name on the Smithsonian National Air and Space Museum Center at Dulles Airport. Mr. Hazy became a pioneer in airplane leasing while still in his 20s, and is widely credited with creating an industry now valued at $129 billion. He raised cash from a small group of fellow Hungarian émigrés and started making deals while an economics student at U.C.L.A. As a junior in 1966, he advised Aer Lingus on how to save money by reducing the aircraft types in its fleet, and, as a senior, he brokered the sale of a turboprop from Air New Zealand to Reeve Aleutian Airlines. In 1973, he founded his leasing company with two partners, and invested $150,000 to buy a used DC-8 to lease to Aeroméxico. The group soon switched to the newest models. Mr. Hazy’s two partners, a Hungarian father-and-son team, are today each worth around $1.6 billion, according to the Forbes’ list. For Mr. Hazy, aviation is as much about emotion as business. “For a lot of people, it is hard to understand what it was like to be a child behind the Iron Curtain in the 1950s, when the cold war was burning strong,” said Mr. Hazy, in an interview in his opulent office in Century City, Calif. “As a child, you get a lot of indoctrination. You feel trapped, like a prisoner. So I always associated planes with escape and freedom, and still do.” Mr. Hazy said the idea to lease aircraft came to him when he saw the shift in the late 1960s from turboprops to jet planes. “That transition involved a quantum leap in capital costs,” said Mr. Hazy, who flies his own Gulfstream V and who wore an Hermès tie with airplanes on it, airplane cuff links and an airplane lapel pin. He recounted that he saw that airlines “needed outside financing from someone friendly and catering to the industry, and not just from a bank.” Today, Mr. Hazy has a staff of 170 employees in the top two floors of the MGM Tower (his penthouse office has a working fireplace). Nearly 2,000 models of airplanes decorate his offices. “He lives and breathes the industry,” said John Leahy, the chief Airbus salesman. “When he was dating his wife, Christine, his idea of a exciting date was to go to the end of the runway and tell her about the DC-8 overhead.” His company, I.L.F.C., went public in 1983, when it had a market value of around $100 million. It was acquired by the in 1990 for $1.3 billion. In 2006, I.L.F.C. had pretax earnings of $716 million on revenue of $4.1 billion. Mr. Hazy has shown an uncanny knack for picking winners among aircraft types, and avoiding deals with airlines that went bankrupt. He buys planes with price tags like $40 million for a Boeing 737 and $200 million for a 747 (though he never pays list price, of course, since he buys in bulk and is such an important customer). He then spreads them around to many carriers, a process he calls seeding. “If we buy 50 planes,” said Mr. Hazy, “there could be 75 more sales from us indirectly.” Not surprisingly, his opinions are treated like gospel within the industry, and Boeing, Airbus and leading jet engine makers often seek out his advice. More Articles in Business &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Itineraries; Tax Bites on Travelers Go Deeper SQUARE FEET; Many Private Planes to Store, but Not Enough Hangars Buffett's Baby Is Taking a Bumpy Ride Square Feet; Little by Little, an Overnight Success More Articles in Business &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/fashion/10FOREVER.html	Faster Fashion, Cheaper Chic - New York Times Faster Fashion, Cheaper Chic Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 Skip to next paragraph Natasha Calzatti for The New York Times Models at a Forever 21 store in Pasadena, Calif., display trends that appeal to both children and adults. Natasha Calzatti for The New York Times Whether in tidy stores in Southern California, above, or in the hectic setting of Manhattan, merchandise is plentiful. COLIBRI EVANS navigated the aisles of Forever 21 at the Beverly Center last week with a sure step and a shrewd eye. Her mother, Sasha Evans, was more circumspect, offering for Colibri’s approval a string of neo-hippie beads Joss Stone might have coveted. “It’s her job to say ‘Yes, No, Yes, No,’ ” Mrs. Evans said, nodding toward her daughter, a 29-year-old music producer. “She tells me what’s cool and what’s too young for me.” It was Mrs. Evans’s first visit to a store that at first glance seemed to cater exclusively to the sparkle gloss-and-cami set. All the same she was intent on finding “maybe a nice overshirt,” she said, “something summery that hides my questionable areas.” With Mother’s Day just over a week away, a trip to the cavernous fashion bazaar at the uppermost level of the mall promised to cement a bond. “For me it’s a way of our just being together, of spending some quality time with my mom,” Ms. Evans said. Bonding is only part of a larger emotional payoff for recreational shoppers like the Evanses, who throng the store, part of the rapidly expanding Forever 21 chain, giddy at the prospect of daily deliveries of fresh, trend-driven fashions at prices that undercut even those of its competitor H&M, across the corridor. By relentlessly chasing trends and catering to an ever-widening market — young women and matrons, men and toddlers — Forever 21 has positioned itself as a retail powerhouse, the American answer to fast fashion emporiums like the European-based Zara, Mexx and H&M. The privately held company has galloped ahead in recent years, doubling its number of stores to 400 since 2005. Retail analysts estimate sales have grown to more than $1 billion last year from about $640 million in 2005. “They are playing by a different set of rules,” said Howard Davidowitz, a New York retail consultant, partly by catering to entire families rather than focusing on teenagers, but also by rivaling competitors in scale. Forever 21 stores are typically 25,000 square feet, roughly five times that of many Anthropologie or Gap stores. Don and Jin Chang, the founders and owners of the chain, opened their first store on Figueroa Street in downtown Los Angeles in the mid-1980s. The small shop, aimed primarily at schoolgirls, proved successful enough that the Changs, who immigrated from South Korea, were able to add new stores on an average of every six months. By the early ’90s, Forever 21 was a significant mall presence. The purchase of Gadzooks, a Midwest clothing retailer, for about $33 million at auction two years ago placed the chain “in the land of the giants,” Mr. Davidowitz said. Last year the company opened its retail showpiece, a 40,000-square-foot store in Pasadena, Calif., offering women’s, men’s and children’s clothing, accessories and lingerie. Clearly the jewel in the family diadem, it is housed in a former Saks Fifth Avenue with silver candelabra posted at the door. The company also operates a Web site, and, as of this year, 17 free-standing For Love accessories stores. Mrs. Chang, who is in her 50s, cultivates an all-but-invisible profile. She declined to appear for a scheduled interview, dispatching Lisa Boisset, the company’s vice president for merchandise, to speak for her. Ms. Boisset discussed her boss, who appears in photographs as a trim woman with dark hair that swings well past her shoulders, with a born-again zeal. Her eyes appeared to well spontaneously as she talked about the Changs’ deep-rooted spirituality. The Changs’ Christian faith is telegraphed near the bottom of the stores’ trademark yellow shopping bags with the stamp, John 3:16, referring to a biblical passage. Ms. Boisset described the Changs as ever on the prowl for ideas and trends. While it takes a designer like several months to get clothes into stores after their debut on the runways, Forever 21 delivers interpretations of the same looks within six weeks. Among the stores’ hip offerings this month are a club-friendly white cotton corset trimmed in midnight blue lace ($19.80), a scarlet cotton swing jacket cropped well above the waist ($27.80), denim capri pants ($27.80) and a puff-sleeve hoodie sprinkled with tiny hearts ($17.80). The chain says it employs no designers, “just very savvy designer merchants,” Ms. Boisset said. Although these merchants’ skills are at the heart of Forever 21’s success in offering shoppers faithful adaptations of runway hits, the company declined to make them available for an interview. “Our design process is proprietary,” Ms. Boisset said. Next Article in Fashion & Style (1 of 12) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. FRONT ROW; No Hiding From Alice Roi CRITICAL SHOPPER; No Store Is a Hero to Its Valet ONLINE SHOPPER; A Narrow Window Into the Future If There's A Buck In It Somewhere Retail Stores and Trade Trademarks and Trade Names Economic Conditions and Trends Next Article in Fashion & Style (1 of 12) &#x00bb; A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/09/dining/09mini.html?ex=1336363200&en=e39f14d761f1b0bc&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks - New York Times A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Tony Cenicola/The New York Times See a key to the items in this photograph Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 9, 2007 THE question I’m asked more often than any other is, “What kitchen equipment should I buy?” Skip to next paragraph Tony Cenicola/The New York Times 10-inch nonstick frying pan, $12.95. Like cookbooks, kitchen equipment is a talisman; people believe that buying the right kind will make them good cooks. Yet some of the best cooks I’ve known worked with a battered batterie de cuisine: dented pots and pans scarred beyond recognition, an old steak knife turned into an all-purpose tool, a pot lid held just so to strain pasta when the colander was missing, a food processor with a busted switch. They didn’t complain and they didn’t apologize; they just cooked. But famous TV chefs use gorgeous name-brand equipment, you might say. And you’d be right. But a.) they get much of that stuff free, the manufacturers hoping that placing it in the hands of a well-known chef will make you think it’s essential; b.) they want their equipment to be pretty, so you’ll think they’re important; and c.) see above: a costly knife is not a talisman and you are not a TV chef. Finally (and this is crucial), the best chefs may use the best-looking equipment when they are in public view, but when it is time to buy equipment for the people who actually prepare those $200 restaurant meals, they go to a restaurant supply house to shop for the everyday cookware I recommend to people all the time. In fact, I contend that with a bit of savvy, patience and a willingness to forgo steel-handle knives, copper pots and other extravagant items, $200 can equip a basic kitchen that will be adequate for just about any task, and $300 can equip one quite well. To prove my point I put together a list of everything needed for almost any cooking task. I bought most of the equipment at Bowery Restaurant Supply, 183 Bowery Street (Delancey Street), where the bill came to just about $200. Throw in a few items the store didn’t have and a few extras, and the total would be about $300. (New York happens to have scores of restaurant supply shops, but every metropolitan area has at least one.) I started with an eight-inch, plastic-handle stainless alloy chef’s knife for $10. This is probably the most essential tool in the kitchen. People not only obsess about knives (and write entire articles about them), but you can easily spend over $100 on just one. Yet go into any restaurant kitchen and you will see most of the cooks using this same plastic-handle Dexter-Russell tool. (Go to the wrong store and you’ll spend $20 or even $30 on the same knife.) I found an instant-read thermometer, a necessity for beginning cooks and obsessive-compulsives, for $5. Three stainless steel bowls — not gorgeous and maybe a little thin — set me back about $5. You are reading that right. Sturdy tongs, an underappreciated tool: $3.50 (don’t buy them too long, make sure the spring is nice and tight, and don’t shop for them at a “culinary” store, where they’ll cost four times as much). For less than $6 I picked up a sturdy sheet pan. It’s not an ideal cookie sheet but it’s useful for roasting and baking (not a bad tray, either, and one of the more common items in restaurant kitchens). A plastic cutting board was about the same price. For aesthetic purposes I’d rather have wood, but plastic can go into the dishwasher. At $3, a paring knife was so cheap I could replace it every year or two. I splurged on a Japanese mandoline for $25. (It’s not indispensable, but since my knife skills are pathetic, I use mine whenever I want thin, even slices or a real julienne.) You, or the college graduate you are thinking of, might own some of the things I bought: a $4 can opener; a vegetable peeler (I like the U-shaped type, which cost me $3); a colander ($7, and I probably could’ve gotten one cheaper). You are thinking to yourself: “Humph. He’s ignoring pots and pans, the most expensive items of all.” Au contraire, my friend; I bought five, and I could live with four (though I’d rather have six): a small, medium and large cast-aluminum saucepan (total: about $30); a medium nonstick cast aluminum pan (10-inch; $13); and a large steep-sided, heavier duty steel pan (14-inch; $25). I bought a single lid ($5; I often use plates or whatever’s handy for lids because I can never find the right one anyway). Next Article in Dining & Wine (1 of 17) &#x00bb; Gain access to The Archive - get it now with TimesSelect To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. HABITATS/Brooklyn Heights; 4-Star Dinners Conjured From A 1-Star Kitchen THE MEDIA EQUATION; Rachael Ray Gives the Gift Of Time Top of the Food Chain Next Article in Dining & Wine (1 of 17) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Find home & garden professionals in your area today In Home & Garden: View all Home & Garden Classifieds Post Your Ad Now! Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/fashion/10granny.html	The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny - New York Times The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Photographs by Michael Stravato for The New York times Angela Kim&#146;s baby-sitting routine: On Tuesdays her husband, Augustine, drops her off at a Houston airport. She&#146;s met at the curb in Dallas by her daughter, Andrea, and her son, Noah, 2. Then it&#146;s off to the hospital where Andrea works, where Mrs. Kim takes the wheel. She heads for Noah&#146;s preschool and after that, home for a nap. On Wednesday nights she makes the reverse commute. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 ANGELA KIM spends two days a week baby-sitting for her 2-year-old grandson, Noah, while her daughter, Andrea, a doctor, works nine-hour hospital shifts. Only Mrs. Kim, 57, lives in Houston and her daughter and grandson live in Dallas — 250 miles away. This long-distance child care arrangement means that on Tuesdays Mrs. Kim wakes at 4:45 a.m. to catch a 6:30 a.m. Southwest Airlines flight to Dallas Love Airport, where her daughter and Noah pick her up at the curb. At the hospital, her daughter hops out of the car to make her 8 a.m. shift and Mrs. Kim slips into the driver’s seat. Then she and Noah drive to his preschool, and after that, home, where Mrs. Kim fills her grandson’s next two days with brown rice, seaweed and Konglish, a mix of Korean and English. On Wednesday night, Mrs. Kim does the trip in reverse, catching a 7:30 p.m. flight to the Houston airport, where her husband picks her up. Terri P. Tepper of Barrington, Ill., made a similar trek every week for a year to help care for her granddaughter so that her daughter could pursue her career. Beginning in 2001, Ms. Tepper flew to New York on Sundays and returned to Chicago on Thursdays. “It was cheaper than getting a nanny,” said Ms. Tepper, 64. The round-trip tickets, which her daughter paid for, cost between $190 and $230. “I actually saved them a lot of money,” Ms. Tepper said. Her daughter later made partner in her consulting firm. Even at a time when grandparents are more involved than ever in the lives of their children and grandchildren, the efforts of Mrs. Kim and Ms. Tepper are extraordinary. But many grandparents these days are making extreme efforts to help their children bridge the work-life divide. “To me, grandparents are like the family National Guard,” said Andrew J. Cherlin, a sociologist at who studies intergenerational issues. “They are ready to step in when there is a need, and as soon as that need is met, they are ready to leave active duty.” “In low-income families,” he continued, “it may be the grandmother down the street who helps out. In high-income families, it is the grandmother in a neighboring city who helps out.” Intercity commuting is just one way they provide that help. Grandparents are also taking time off from work, retiring early, moving to the United States from overseas or selling their home to be near grandchildren. The greater involvement results from a confluence of factors, including the financial burdens of child care and anxiety over the quality of care. But most notably it is influenced by a generation of grandparents who have the time and the financial wherewithal to pitch in. “This is the first generation where we have so many older people living long enough, being healthy enough and being affluent enough to provide these services on a large scale” since women entered the workplace in large numbers, Dr. Cherlin said. But the involvement cuts across the economic spectrum. According to the census, 19.4 percent of preschool children with working mothers were primarily entrusted to grandparents in 2002, the latest year for which there are statistics. Grandparents took charge more often than fathers (18.2 percent), day care (19 percent) or hired help (9 percent). In 1995, grandparents ranked third behind fathers and day care centers, at 15.9 percent. There are no figures on how many grandparents go to extremes, because they can afford to, to care for their children’s children. “We call them grandboomers,” said Amy Goyer, national coordinator for the Foundation Grandparent Information Center, which has noticed heightened interest in information and services for grandparents. “They have more disposable income. They may have planned better for retirement.” For example, Judy Chen of Seattle could afford to take a year off as a hospital researcher to move to the Bay Area to baby-sit to help her daughter, a corporate lawyer. Her career was better able to absorb the timeout, she said: She was close to retirement, but her daughter was on a fairly strict career track in her firm. “Compared with her job, I have to sacrifice a little bit,” Mrs. Chen said. Besides, she said, echoing a sentiment expressed in similar terms by other Asian and Latino grandparents interviewed, “I am a Chinese mother.” Stepping in — even moving in — is customary in cultures that stress intergenerational familial obligations. In Mrs. Chen’s case, her sense of obligation to her daughter trumps that to her husband, who was left home alone for a year. “He is lonely, but he has a job,” Mrs. Chen said. Mrs. Chen’s daughter and son-in-law were reluctant to hire a nanny, feeling uncomfortable with strangers raising their son. They said they also worry about day care, expressing a widely shared parental anxiety that was only heightened by a National Institutes of Health study published this year that found some evidence of increased behavior problems among sixth graders the more time they had spent in professional day care. Were it not for the help of her mother and mother-in-law, Andrea Kim said, she would have quit her residency rather than put Noah in day care two years ago. “I couldn’t bring myself to do it,” said Andrea Kim, who had already invested nine years in college, medical school and a residency at that point. “I had a lot of guilt.” And so she proposed the flying granny nanny scenario to her mother. “It was a joke when I first mentioned it, then it turned into a plea,” Andrea Kim said. Some weeks, her mother or her father, Augustine, 61, fly to Dallas, scoop Noah up at the airport curbside pickup and take him to Houston on the next flight. “It’s crazy, isn’t it?” said Mrs. Kim, the grandmother. “Somehow it works out.” Next Article in Fashion & Style (3 of 12) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Get Back to Work SHORTCUTS; Too Busy to Notice You're Too Busy Study Finds Rise in Behavior Problems After Significant Time in Day Care Teaching Movie Moguls to Wipe Drool Families and Family Life Next Article in Fashion & Style (3 of 12) &#x00bb; A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/technology/10basics.html	Digital cameras that minimize shutter lag - New York Times Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 DIGITAL cameras are amazing. Even compact digital cameras selling for less than $100 take photographs with great resolution. Skip to next paragraph Illustration by The New York Times The point-and-shoot cameras are great, that is, as long as the subject of the photo is not moving very fast. But if the photographer is trying to catch the moment that the little soccer player kicks in his first goal or when the black Labrador leaps in the air to snag the Frisbee, then he may find a picture of an empty field or a blue sky. The compact digital camera can take so long to react after you snap the shutter release button that the moment has passed and the desired image is never captured. The problem is called shutter lag. “It’s the No. 1 dissatisfier that we hear about,” said Bob Gann, ’s digital imaging systems architect. But avoiding it, or minimizing it in the next camera you buy — well, that is a tricky problem. About 65 percent of camera buyers are buying their second or third digital camera, but this time they probably will not be focusing on the number of megapixels as they did in past purchases. (Anything over 5 megapixels is going to provide the resolution any amateur photographer needs.) Instead, they might want to think about how well that camera takes pictures, including the action shots. The problem is, camera makers do not want to tell consumers too much about that. It is not that they have anything to hide; it is just that shutter lag is too difficult a concept to communicate in ads or marketing materials in stores. “No kidding, I am trying not to geek out,” said Jerry Magee, product manager at It still is much easier to sell consumers on a camera’s price, style, color, image-stabilization abilities, wireless ability or even its many preset shooting modes like fireworks, underwater or dining. “Our emphasis is on finishing their pictures and making them as good as possible right in the camera,” said Steve Heiner, a senior technical manger at That said, “there is a little bit of a war for a camera that can take a picture quicker,” Mr. Magee said. The first problem is that shutter lag is not really shutter lag at all, but processor lag. (Feel your eyes glazing over already?) When the photographer begins to push down the button to snap the picture, sensors in the camera begin to take a series of measurements. The processor calculates the distance to the object, determines the amount of light needed and even does some balancing for color and whiteness. The processor may also have special software to focus on faces, so those calculations are run. In effect, the processor is analyzing a series of images as the button descends. Then the image is captured on the processor and sent into memory. That can take almost as long as one second. So any consumer who wants to buy a fast-acting camera merely has to look at the specification sheets, right? Well, no. Many cameras’ spec sheets do not list any number that would help a consumer make a choice. The S500, which the company said was one of its best performers for action shots, gave no clues. The Hewlett-Packard $230 Photo Smart R837, its best contestant, lists only “shot-to-shot time” of 1.5 seconds. (Some reviews said it had “shutter lag” of 0.37 second.) The Kodak EasyShare Z712 IS has a “click-to-capture” speed of 0.26 second. The specifications surrounding lag are not standardized and can be interpreted in various ways. Indeed, there is not even one standard. For instance, one might measure shutter lag in auto focus and another with manual focus, which will be much less. For example, Nikon brags that its S500 has shutter lag, in “release priority mode” — that is, from the time the button is half-pressed down to the point it is completely depressed — of just 0.005 second. A shopper might find shutter speed listed. But that alone is not very helpful. “Shutter speed is just one element,” said Chuck Westfall, a spokesman for Canon. “As long as it is reasonably fast, it doesn’t make much difference.” Better proxies for estimating shutter lag are autofocus lag and shutter-release lag if you can find that data. A conscientious shopper may find the information in reviews in camera magazines or camera Web sites. (Hint: the camera name and the words “shutter lag.”) (If you already have a camera, a rough do-it-yourself test is available at . But it is influenced by how fast your reflexes are.) Another measurement that plays into catching action shots is ISO. It is a term that was transported over from silver halide film, when it measured the fineness of the grains on the film, hence its sensitivity to light. A higher ISO could capture action better in low-light conditions. So the higher a digital camera’s ISO settings, the more able it is to nail the action shot. The $300 Kodak Z712 IS, for example, goes up to 3200. “It might not be shutter lag, but it could be the camera system may not be robust enough to capture it,” Mr. Magee said. If true, that presents an even bigger problem for consumers: they have to evaluate the quality of the chip inside the camera, a difficult job because information about the type and maker of the processor is not readily available. Some camera magazines refer to the processor, but camera buffs who write for them tend not to be electronic engineers who can describe the advantages of a Texas Instrument chip over a Zoran chip. “I’m not sure the customer needs to know that much about the processor,” Mr. Heiner of Nikon said. The shutter-lag problem is not true of all digital cameras. The digital single-lens-reflex (S.L.R.) cameras do not have a problem with shutter lag. Indeed, if someone takes a lot of action photos and is really bothered by shutter lag, the solution is to spring for a more expensive digital S.L.R. model. The good news is that the lowest end of this category has touched the upper end of the compact camera category. The Nikon D40, that maker’s cheapest digital S.L.R., sells for about $530. A DSCH9/B, a 7-megapixel point-and-shoot, albeit a pretty fancy one, goes for about $480. Photographers offer a few tips on capturing action shots with point-and-shoot cameras. If you can anticipate a shot — for instance, the birthday cake candles about to be blown out — then push the shutter-release button down halfway. Priming the auto-focus gets the process started early. When you push the button down all the way, the camera can process the information more quickly. Another trick is to point the camera to where the action will occur, push halfway, and when the action occurs, push it all the way. That means you do not follow the subject, you follow the event. In other words, if you are tracking a downhill skier slaloming through a series of flags, aim at the flags, not the skier. Camera makers also suggested using the burst mode, which quick-fires a series of photos. Shoot the first one in advance of the event and then you probably will capture the significant moment. Many cameras have a pets or children mode to capture those things that will not stand still when instructed. “It works pretty well when you have enough light,” Mr. Westfall said. As cameras simultaneously drop in price and add more features, concerns about shutter lag will diminish. “Give us a few more years and you won’t be hearing about it,” Mr. Gann of Hewlett-Packard said. “But it adds costs. We know how to make it faster, but it would cost money.” Sphere: Related Blogs & Articles Next Article in Technology (7 of 25) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. British Miscreants Caught on Camera Face Loudspeaker Lectures NOVELTIES; For Chatting Face to Face, Webcams With a Clearer View STATE OF THE ART; Breaking The Myth Of Megapixels CIRCUITS; A Children's Camera That Lets Piglet Say 'Cheese' Computers and the Internet Next Article in Technology (7 of 25) &#x00bb; A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer NYT ESSENTIAL LIBRARY: OPERA Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/us/11debris.html	Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard - New York Times Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Experts say that today&#146;s do-it-yourself mentality, in part, leads many people, like this driver in Burlington, Ontario, to haul large items. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 SAN FRANCISCO, May 9 — It was just another rush hour. On eastbound Interstate 580 near Pleasanton recently, a rocking chair brought traffic to a near-standstill, while on southbound I-680 near Walnut Creek, a trampoline blocked two left lanes, wreaking havoc on the morning commute. Bagged loaves of sourdough bread blocked U.S. 101, near Petaluma. The highway patrol had to be dispatched. Skip to next paragraph An Average Mile of Litter Video: 'City of Trash' Public Service Announcement On the set of a commercial for a &#147;secure your load&#148; campaign in Washington State, staff members photographed an improperly loaded truck. Last month, a plastic sink was on the loose, stretched across two lanes of the San Mateo Bridge. The sink was something of a departure from the mattresses, aluminum ladders, sofas, buckets — with the occasional spilled Napa County grapes thrown in — that snarled traffic and contributed to the state’s daily accumulation of road debris. While by no means unique to California, pickup trucks and other vehicles piled high with improperly secured loads are a fact of life here, contributing — thanks to the laws of physics — to an estimated 140,000 cubic yards of road debris a year. That is enough to fill 8,750 garbage trucks, which would extend for 45 miles, said Tamie McGowen, a spokeswoman for Caltrans, the state transportation department. And it is increasingly hazardous, experts say. In California, 155 people lost their lives in the last two years after accidents involving objects on highways, and states are beginning to address the issue. Next week, a murder trial is set to begin in the death of a Los Angeles county deputy sheriff who was killed when he swerved to avoid a stolen stove that had fallen from a Long Beach man’s truck. In California and across the nation, where some freeway shoulders have come to resemble weekend yard sales, the nature of road debris has changed, and litter anthropologists are now studying the phenomenon. Where “deliberate” litter used to reign — those blithely tossed fast-food wrappers and the like — “unintentional” or “negligent” litter from poorly secured loads is making its presence felt. Steven R. Stein, a litter analyst for R. W. Beck, a waste-consulting firm in Maryland, attributes the change to more trash-hauling vehicles, including recycling trucks, and the ubiquity of pickup trucks on the country’s highways. In 1986, Mr. Stein said, two-thirds of the debris was deliberate, but surveys now show the litter seesaw balanced. He said the two most recent surveys indicated a further increase in unintentional litter. In Georgia, which recently quantified its litter, 66 percent of road debris comes from unintentional litter, largely unsecured loads. A study in Tennessee last year showed that 70 percent of the state’s debris was unintentional. By dint of its climate, size, population, lengthy growing season, increasingly long commutes and, perhaps, its casual lifestyle, California is a road-debris leader. It is also home to the country’s largest number of registered vehicles — 32 million, twice that of No. 2 Texas — and roughly four million pickup trucks, the most of any state, according to the Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers in Washington. No other state spends more on litter removal, in excess of $55 million, said Christine Flowers-Ewing, the executive director of Keep California Beautiful, a nonprofit environmental education organization. Motorists in California can be fined if anything other than feathers from live birds or water should escape. (In Nebraska, the exception is corn stalks; in Kentucky, coal.) Along with mudslides, brush fires and earthquakes, chance encounters with a set of box springs, a chintz cushion or a crate of lettuces are the daily stuff of radio traffic updates, recounted in excruciating detail. When a tractor-trailer full of freeze-dried oriental soup and vegetables spilled onto the I-710 freeway near Los Angeles, for example, “there was one from Column A, and one from Columns B and C,” said Peter Demetriou, a veteran traffic reporter for KFWB radio in Los Angeles. “The only problem was, it was Lane 1, Lane 2 and Lane 3.” Greg Williams, who has worked for the California Highway Patrol in Bakersfield for 27 years, cited a carrot truck spill in the fog on State Highway 84 as his worst case. “In cities, we chase furniture; in rural areas it’s cattle, sheep, horses, buckets and nails,” Mr. Williams said. “There’s nothing slipperier than a crushed carrot.” More Articles in National &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. California: Request to Toughen Truck Drivers&#8217; Rules National Briefing | West: California: Radio Show Pulled After Contest Death Death Rate on Highways Rises, and Motorcycles Are Blamed More Articles in National &#x00bb; A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/09/dining/09curi.html	The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? - New York Times The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 9, 2007 A COUPLE of weeks ago I saw a new scientific paper from that struck me as both pioneering and hilarious. Skip to next paragraph Accompanied by six graphs, two tables and equations whose terms include “bologna” and “carpet,” it’s a thorough microbiological study of the five-second rule: the idea that if you pick up a dropped piece of food before you can count to five, it’s O.K. to eat it. I first heard about the rule from my then-young children and thought it was just a way of having fun at snack time and lunch. My daughter now tells me that fun was part of it, but they knew they were playing with “germs.” We’re reminded about germs on food whenever there’s an outbreak of E. coli or salmonella, and whenever we read the labels on packages of uncooked meat. But we don’t have much occasion to think about the everyday practice of retrieving and eating dropped pieces of food. Microbes are everywhere around us, not just on floors. They thrive in wet kitchen sponges and end up on freshly wiped countertops. As I write this column, on an airplane, I realize that I have removed a chicken sandwich from its protective plastic sleeve and put it down repeatedly on the sleeve’s outer surface, which was meant to protect the sandwich by blocking microbes. What’s on the outer surface? Without the five-second rule on my mind I wouldn’t have thought to wonder. I learned from the Clemson study that the true pioneer of five-second research was Jillian Clarke, a high-school intern at the in 2003. Ms. Clarke conducted a survey and found that slightly more than half of the men and 70 percent of the women knew of the five-second rule, and many said they followed it. She did an experiment by contaminating ceramic tiles with E. coli, placing gummy bears and cookies on the tiles for the statutory five seconds, and then analyzing the foods. They had become contaminated with bacteria. For performing this first test of the five-second rule, Ms. Clarke was recognized by the Annals of Improbable Research with the 2004 Ig Nobel Prize in public health. It’s not surprising that food dropped onto bacteria would collect some bacteria. But how many? Does it collect more as the seconds tick by? Enough to make you sick? Prof. Paul L. Dawson and his colleagues at Clemson have now put some numbers on floor-to-food contamination. Their bacterium of choice was salmonella; the test surfaces were tile, wood flooring and nylon carpet; and the test foods were slices of bread and bologna. First the researchers measured how long bacteria could survive on the surfaces. They applied salmonella broth in doses of several million bacteria per square centimeter, a number typical of badly contaminated food. I had thought that most bacteria were sensitive to drying out, but after 24 hours of exposure to the air, thousands of bacteria per square centimeter had survived on the tile and wood, and tens of thousands on the carpet. Hundreds of salmonella were still alive after 28 days. Professor Dawson and colleagues then placed test food slices onto salmonella-painted surfaces for varying lengths of time, and counted how many live bacteria were transferred to the food. On surfaces that had been contaminated eight hours earlier, slices of bologna and bread left for five seconds took up from 150 to 8,000 bacteria. Left for a full minute, slices collected about 10 times more than that from the tile and carpet, though a lower number from the wood. What do these numbers tell us about the five-second rule? Quick retrieval does mean fewer bacteria, but it’s no guarantee of safety. True, Jillian Clarke found that the number of bacteria on the floor at the University of Illinois was so low it couldn’t be measured, and the Clemson researchers resorted to extremely high contamination levels for their tests. But even if a floor — or a countertop, or wrapper — carried only a thousandth the number of bacteria applied by the researchers, the piece of food would be likely to pick up several bacteria. The infectious dose, the smallest number of bacteria that can actually cause illness, is as few as 10 for some salmonellas, fewer than 100 for the deadly strain of E. coli. Of course we can never know for sure how many harmful microbes there are on any surface. But we know enough now to formulate the five-second rule, version 2.0: If you drop a piece of food, pick it up quickly, take five seconds to recall that just a few bacteria can make you sick, then take a few more to think about where you dropped it and whether or not it’s worth eating. Next Article in Dining & Wine (4 of 17) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. F.D.A. Says Livestock Were Fed Pet Food With Suspect Chemical China Yields To Inquiry On Pet Food Tainted Pet Food Is Said to Be Still on Shelves Some Suspect Chemical Mix In Pet Food Food Contamination and Poisoning Next Article in Dining & Wine (4 of 17) &#x00bb; A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Find home & garden professionals in your area today In Home & Garden: View all Home & Garden Classifieds Post Your Ad Now! Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/gst/mostemailed.html?partner=rssnyt	Most E-Mailed New York Times Articles in the Past 24 Hours - The New York Times Friday, May 11, 2007 SIGN IN TO E-MAIL THIS Updated Every Fifteen Minutes Articles most frequently e-mailed by NYTimes.com readers. Sign In to E-MAIL This The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny By JENNIFER 8. LEE Some affluent retirees don&#8217;t mind dropping in by air to baby-sit. Sign In to E-MAIL This Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role By GARDINER HARRIS, BENEDICT CAREY and JANET ROBERTS The intersection of money and medicine has become one of the most contentious issues in psychiatry. Sign In to E-MAIL This The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Gorgeous, name-brand pots, pans and gadgets sure are nice, but are they necessary? No, and here&#8217;s how a good cook can outfit an entire kitchen for under $300. Sign In to E-MAIL This The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? Is it safe to eat a piece of food that fell to the floor but was picked up in less that five seconds? Scientists recently put the five-second rule through some microbiology paces. Sign In to E-MAIL This New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Real estate brokers say radical solutions for housing among newcomers are becoming more common. Sign In to E-MAIL This Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard By PATRICIA LEIGH BROWN California is beginning to address the issue of deaths caused by accidents involving objects on highways. Sign In to E-MAIL This Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing The company that makes the painkiller OxyContin pleaded guilty to criminal charges that the firm had misled doctors and patients. Sign In to E-MAIL This SPORTS / PRO BASKETBALL Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Utah point guard Derek Fisher put his daughter&#8217;s health before the playoffs Wednesday, missing most of the game. He then returned to seal the win for the Jazz. Sign In to E-MAIL This Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Research into the genetics of obesity indicates that each person has a comfortable weight range to which the body gravitates. Sign In to E-MAIL This Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies By A. O. SCOTT &#8220;28 Weeks Later&#8221; is brutal and almost exhaustingly terrifying. It is also bracingly smart, both in its ideas and in its techniques. Sign In to E-MAIL This INTERNATIONAL / ASIA PACIFIC Pressed by Police, Even Innocent Confess in Japan Recent criminal cases have shown just how far the Japanese authorities will go in securing confessions. Sign In to E-MAIL This Music: Off the Beaten Beat Away from the bright lights of New York&#8217;s music scene, many artists are finding new performance spaces in strange, intimate locales. Sign In to E-MAIL This Basics: Seizing the Moment There are ways to defeat the shutter lag that can mar action shots. Sign In to E-MAIL This The Real Owner of All Those Planes Steven Udvar-Hazy is a pioneer in airplane leasing, owning more airplanes than any airline in the world. Sign In to E-MAIL This Faster Fashion, Cheaper Chic By RUTH LA FERLA Trends are served fresh daily at Forever 21, the clothing retailer growing like a weed near you. Sign In to E-MAIL This ARTS / ART & DESIGN Harlem&#8217;s Cultural Anchor in a Sea of Ideas By FELICIA R. LEE As the Schomburg Center unveils its $11 million facelift, Harlem itself is also undergoing one of its periodic renaissances. Sign In to E-MAIL This Editorial: Mr. Bush Alone President Bush has yet to acknowledge the reality in Iraq that Congressional Republicans and even administration officials like Defense Secretary Robert Gates now seem to tacitly accept. Sign In to E-MAIL This A new federally backed study shows that juveniles who do time as adults later commit more violent crime than those who are handled through the juvenile courts. Sign In to E-MAIL This Op-Ed Contributor: A Nobel for the Sandman The feats that Sandman performs in comic books and in &#8220;Spider-Man 3&#8221; often correctly display the fascinating properties of granular materials. Sign In to E-MAIL This David Brooks: The Human Community Tony Blair&#8217;s decision to support the invasion of Iraq grew out of the essence of who he is. Sign In to E-MAIL This In the Garden: It Takes a Hammer to Grow This Salad A tiny portable garden is the place to raise greens and herbs. Sign In to E-MAIL This GREAT HOMES / GREAT HOMES A Ski Community Where There&#8217;s No Such Thing as Too Much At the Yellowstone Mountain Club in Big Sky, Mont., every home is within a short schuss of a chair lift and the rich and famous will find every possible amenity. Sign In to E-MAIL This A White Tie Kind of Guy So President Bush, it seems, confounded expectations and managed to keep it together for Queen Elizabeth II&acirc;&#128;&#153;s state visit this week. He didn&acirc;&#128;&#153;t slobber, chug-a-lug from an Evian bottle, spew bits of buttered roll or engage in any impromptu shoulder massages. Bully for him. His only slip-up came when he had a bit of a sequencing problem [...] Sign In to E-MAIL This 36 Hours in St. Petersburg, Russia By CLIFFORD J. LEVY The former Russian capital has recaptured much of its glamour and offers an enchanting landscape not only for lovers of culture but for their children as well. Sign In to E-MAIL This Harvard Task Force Calls for New Focus on Teaching and Not Just Research Nine prominent professors are leading an effort to rethink the culture of undergraduate teaching and learning at Harvard. A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/us/11debris.html?ex=1336536000&en=e917b4ee7a21e653&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard - New York Times Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Experts say that today&#146;s do-it-yourself mentality, in part, leads many people, like this driver in Burlington, Ontario, to haul large items. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 SAN FRANCISCO, May 9 — It was just another rush hour. On eastbound Interstate 580 near Pleasanton recently, a rocking chair brought traffic to a near-standstill, while on southbound I-680 near Walnut Creek, a trampoline blocked two left lanes, wreaking havoc on the morning commute. Bagged loaves of sourdough bread blocked U.S. 101, near Petaluma. The highway patrol had to be dispatched. Skip to next paragraph An Average Mile of Litter Video: 'City of Trash' Public Service Announcement On the set of a commercial for a &#147;secure your load&#148; campaign in Washington State, staff members photographed an improperly loaded truck. Last month, a plastic sink was on the loose, stretched across two lanes of the San Mateo Bridge. The sink was something of a departure from the mattresses, aluminum ladders, sofas, buckets — with the occasional spilled Napa County grapes thrown in — that snarled traffic and contributed to the state’s daily accumulation of road debris. While by no means unique to California, pickup trucks and other vehicles piled high with improperly secured loads are a fact of life here, contributing — thanks to the laws of physics — to an estimated 140,000 cubic yards of road debris a year. That is enough to fill 8,750 garbage trucks, which would extend for 45 miles, said Tamie McGowen, a spokeswoman for Caltrans, the state transportation department. And it is increasingly hazardous, experts say. In California, 155 people lost their lives in the last two years after accidents involving objects on highways, and states are beginning to address the issue. Next week, a murder trial is set to begin in the death of a Los Angeles county deputy sheriff who was killed when he swerved to avoid a stolen stove that had fallen from a Long Beach man’s truck. In California and across the nation, where some freeway shoulders have come to resemble weekend yard sales, the nature of road debris has changed, and litter anthropologists are now studying the phenomenon. Where “deliberate” litter used to reign — those blithely tossed fast-food wrappers and the like — “unintentional” or “negligent” litter from poorly secured loads is making its presence felt. Steven R. Stein, a litter analyst for R. W. Beck, a waste-consulting firm in Maryland, attributes the change to more trash-hauling vehicles, including recycling trucks, and the ubiquity of pickup trucks on the country’s highways. In 1986, Mr. Stein said, two-thirds of the debris was deliberate, but surveys now show the litter seesaw balanced. He said the two most recent surveys indicated a further increase in unintentional litter. In Georgia, which recently quantified its litter, 66 percent of road debris comes from unintentional litter, largely unsecured loads. A study in Tennessee last year showed that 70 percent of the state’s debris was unintentional. By dint of its climate, size, population, lengthy growing season, increasingly long commutes and, perhaps, its casual lifestyle, California is a road-debris leader. It is also home to the country’s largest number of registered vehicles — 32 million, twice that of No. 2 Texas — and roughly four million pickup trucks, the most of any state, according to the Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers in Washington. No other state spends more on litter removal, in excess of $55 million, said Christine Flowers-Ewing, the executive director of Keep California Beautiful, a nonprofit environmental education organization. Motorists in California can be fined if anything other than feathers from live birds or water should escape. (In Nebraska, the exception is corn stalks; in Kentucky, coal.) Along with mudslides, brush fires and earthquakes, chance encounters with a set of box springs, a chintz cushion or a crate of lettuces are the daily stuff of radio traffic updates, recounted in excruciating detail. When a tractor-trailer full of freeze-dried oriental soup and vegetables spilled onto the I-710 freeway near Los Angeles, for example, “there was one from Column A, and one from Columns B and C,” said Peter Demetriou, a veteran traffic reporter for KFWB radio in Los Angeles. “The only problem was, it was Lane 1, Lane 2 and Lane 3.” Greg Williams, who has worked for the California Highway Patrol in Bakersfield for 27 years, cited a carrot truck spill in the fog on State Highway 84 as his worst case. “In cities, we chase furniture; in rural areas it’s cattle, sheep, horses, buckets and nails,” Mr. Williams said. “There’s nothing slipperier than a crushed carrot.” More Articles in National &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. California: Request to Toughen Truck Drivers&#8217; Rules National Briefing | West: California: Radio Show Pulled After Contest Death Death Rate on Highways Rises, and Motorcycles Are Blamed More Articles in National &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/technology/10basics.html?ex=1336449600&en=a9198a09c3d2cf48&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Digital cameras that minimize shutter lag - New York Times Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 DIGITAL cameras are amazing. Even compact digital cameras selling for less than $100 take photographs with great resolution. Skip to next paragraph Illustration by The New York Times The point-and-shoot cameras are great, that is, as long as the subject of the photo is not moving very fast. But if the photographer is trying to catch the moment that the little soccer player kicks in his first goal or when the black Labrador leaps in the air to snag the Frisbee, then he may find a picture of an empty field or a blue sky. The compact digital camera can take so long to react after you snap the shutter release button that the moment has passed and the desired image is never captured. The problem is called shutter lag. “It’s the No. 1 dissatisfier that we hear about,” said Bob Gann, ’s digital imaging systems architect. But avoiding it, or minimizing it in the next camera you buy — well, that is a tricky problem. About 65 percent of camera buyers are buying their second or third digital camera, but this time they probably will not be focusing on the number of megapixels as they did in past purchases. (Anything over 5 megapixels is going to provide the resolution any amateur photographer needs.) Instead, they might want to think about how well that camera takes pictures, including the action shots. The problem is, camera makers do not want to tell consumers too much about that. It is not that they have anything to hide; it is just that shutter lag is too difficult a concept to communicate in ads or marketing materials in stores. “No kidding, I am trying not to geek out,” said Jerry Magee, product manager at It still is much easier to sell consumers on a camera’s price, style, color, image-stabilization abilities, wireless ability or even its many preset shooting modes like fireworks, underwater or dining. “Our emphasis is on finishing their pictures and making them as good as possible right in the camera,” said Steve Heiner, a senior technical manger at That said, “there is a little bit of a war for a camera that can take a picture quicker,” Mr. Magee said. The first problem is that shutter lag is not really shutter lag at all, but processor lag. (Feel your eyes glazing over already?) When the photographer begins to push down the button to snap the picture, sensors in the camera begin to take a series of measurements. The processor calculates the distance to the object, determines the amount of light needed and even does some balancing for color and whiteness. The processor may also have special software to focus on faces, so those calculations are run. In effect, the processor is analyzing a series of images as the button descends. Then the image is captured on the processor and sent into memory. That can take almost as long as one second. So any consumer who wants to buy a fast-acting camera merely has to look at the specification sheets, right? Well, no. Many cameras’ spec sheets do not list any number that would help a consumer make a choice. The S500, which the company said was one of its best performers for action shots, gave no clues. The Hewlett-Packard $230 Photo Smart R837, its best contestant, lists only “shot-to-shot time” of 1.5 seconds. (Some reviews said it had “shutter lag” of 0.37 second.) The Kodak EasyShare Z712 IS has a “click-to-capture” speed of 0.26 second. The specifications surrounding lag are not standardized and can be interpreted in various ways. Indeed, there is not even one standard. For instance, one might measure shutter lag in auto focus and another with manual focus, which will be much less. For example, Nikon brags that its S500 has shutter lag, in “release priority mode” — that is, from the time the button is half-pressed down to the point it is completely depressed — of just 0.005 second. A shopper might find shutter speed listed. But that alone is not very helpful. “Shutter speed is just one element,” said Chuck Westfall, a spokesman for Canon. “As long as it is reasonably fast, it doesn’t make much difference.” Better proxies for estimating shutter lag are autofocus lag and shutter-release lag if you can find that data. A conscientious shopper may find the information in reviews in camera magazines or camera Web sites. (Hint: the camera name and the words “shutter lag.”) (If you already have a camera, a rough do-it-yourself test is available at . But it is influenced by how fast your reflexes are.) Another measurement that plays into catching action shots is ISO. It is a term that was transported over from silver halide film, when it measured the fineness of the grains on the film, hence its sensitivity to light. A higher ISO could capture action better in low-light conditions. So the higher a digital camera’s ISO settings, the more able it is to nail the action shot. The $300 Kodak Z712 IS, for example, goes up to 3200. “It might not be shutter lag, but it could be the camera system may not be robust enough to capture it,” Mr. Magee said. If true, that presents an even bigger problem for consumers: they have to evaluate the quality of the chip inside the camera, a difficult job because information about the type and maker of the processor is not readily available. Some camera magazines refer to the processor, but camera buffs who write for them tend not to be electronic engineers who can describe the advantages of a Texas Instrument chip over a Zoran chip. “I’m not sure the customer needs to know that much about the processor,” Mr. Heiner of Nikon said. The shutter-lag problem is not true of all digital cameras. The digital single-lens-reflex (S.L.R.) cameras do not have a problem with shutter lag. Indeed, if someone takes a lot of action photos and is really bothered by shutter lag, the solution is to spring for a more expensive digital S.L.R. model. The good news is that the lowest end of this category has touched the upper end of the compact camera category. The Nikon D40, that maker’s cheapest digital S.L.R., sells for about $530. A DSCH9/B, a 7-megapixel point-and-shoot, albeit a pretty fancy one, goes for about $480. Photographers offer a few tips on capturing action shots with point-and-shoot cameras. If you can anticipate a shot — for instance, the birthday cake candles about to be blown out — then push the shutter-release button down halfway. Priming the auto-focus gets the process started early. When you push the button down all the way, the camera can process the information more quickly. Another trick is to point the camera to where the action will occur, push halfway, and when the action occurs, push it all the way. That means you do not follow the subject, you follow the event. In other words, if you are tracking a downhill skier slaloming through a series of flags, aim at the flags, not the skier. Camera makers also suggested using the burst mode, which quick-fires a series of photos. Shoot the first one in advance of the event and then you probably will capture the significant moment. Many cameras have a pets or children mode to capture those things that will not stand still when instructed. “It works pretty well when you have enough light,” Mr. Westfall said. As cameras simultaneously drop in price and add more features, concerns about shutter lag will diminish. “Give us a few more years and you won’t be hearing about it,” Mr. Gann of Hewlett-Packard said. “But it adds costs. We know how to make it faster, but it would cost money.” Sphere: Related Blogs & Articles Next Article in Technology (7 of 25) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. British Miscreants Caught on Camera Face Loudspeaker Lectures NOVELTIES; For Chatting Face to Face, Webcams With a Clearer View STATE OF THE ART; Breaking The Myth Of Megapixels CIRCUITS; A Children's Camera That Lets Piglet Say 'Cheese' Computers and the Internet Next Article in Technology (7 of 25) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/health/10psyche.html	Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role - New York Times Mental Health & Behavior Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry’s Role Fabrizio Costantini for The New York Times Anya Bailey is among a growing number of children given antipsychotic drugs by doctors who are paid by the makers of those drugs. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This By GARDINER HARRIS, BENEDICT CAREY and JANET ROBERTS Published: May 10, 2007 When Anya Bailey developed an after her 12th birthday, her mother took her to a psychiatrist at the who prescribed a powerful antipsychotic drug called Risperdal. Skip to next paragraph The New York Times , Risperdal is not approved to treat eating disorders, but increased appetite is a common side effect and doctors may prescribe drugs as they see fit. Anya gained weight but within two years developed a crippling knot in her back. She now receives regular injections of Botox to unclench her back muscles. She often awakens crying in pain. Isabella Bailey, Anya’s mother, said she had no idea that children might be especially susceptible to Risperdal’s side effects. Nor did she know that Risperdal and similar medicines were not approved at the time to treat children, or that medical trials often cited to justify the use of such drugs had as few as eight children taking the drug by the end. Just as surprising, Ms. Bailey said, was learning that the university psychiatrist who supervised Anya’s care received more than $7,000 from 2003 to 2004 from Johnson & Johnson, Risperdal’s maker, in return for lectures about one of the company’s drugs. Doctors, including Anya Bailey’s, maintain that payments from drug companies do not influence what they prescribe for patients. But the intersection of money and medicine, and its effect on the well-being of patients, has become one of the most contentious issues in health care. Nowhere is that more true than in psychiatry, where increasing payments to doctors have coincided with the growing use in children of a relatively new class of drugs known as atypical antipsychotics. These best-selling drugs, including Risperdal, Seroquel, Zyprexa, Abilify and Geodon, are now being prescribed to more than half a million children in the United States to help parents deal with behavior problems despite profound risks and almost no approved uses for minors. A New York Times analysis of records in Minnesota, the only state that requires public reports of all drug company marketing payments to doctors, provides rare documentation of how financial relationships between doctors and drug makers correspond to the growing use of atypicals in children. From 2000 to 2005, drug maker payments to Minnesota psychiatrists rose more than sixfold, to $1.6 million. During those same years, prescriptions of antipsychotics for children in Minnesota’s Medicaid program rose more than ninefold. Those who took the most money from makers of atypicals tended to prescribe the drugs to children the most often, the data suggest. On average, Minnesota psychiatrists who received at least $5,000 from atypical makers from 2000 to 2005 appear to have written three times as many atypical prescriptions for children as psychiatrists who received less or no money. The Times analysis focused on prescriptions written for about one-third of Minnesota’s Medicaid population, almost all of whom are disabled. Some doctors were misidentified by pharmacists, but the information provides a rough guide to prescribing patterns in the state. Drug makers underwrite decision makers at every level of care. They pay doctors who prescribe and recommend drugs, teach about the underlying diseases, perform studies and write guidelines that other doctors often feel bound to follow. But studies present strong evidence that financial interests can affect decisions, often without people knowing it. In Minnesota, psychiatrists collected more money from drug makers from 2000 to 2005 than doctors in any other specialty. Total payments to individual psychiatrists ranged from $51 to more than $689,000, with a median of $1,750. Since the records are incomplete, these figures probably underestimate doctors’ actual incomes. Such payments could encourage psychiatrists to use drugs in ways that endanger patients’ physical health, said Dr. Steven E. Hyman, the provost of and former director of the National Institute of Mental Health. The growing use of atypicals in children is the most troubling example of this, Dr. Hyman said. “There’s an irony that psychiatrists ask patients to have insights into themselves, but we don’t connect the wires in our own lives about how money is affecting our profession and putting our patients at risk,” he said. Anya Bailey is a 15-year-old high school freshman from East Grand Forks, Minn., with pictures of the actor Chad Michael Murray on her bedroom wall. She has constant discomfort in her neck that leads her to twist it in a birdlike fashion. Last year, a boy mimicked her in the lunch room. “The first time, I laughed it off,” Anya said. “I said: ‘That’s so funny. I think I’ll laugh with you.’ Then it got annoying, and I decided to hide it. I don’t want to be made fun of.” Now she slumps when seated at school to pressure her clenched muscles, she said. It all began in 2003 when Anya became dangerously thin. “Nothing tasted good to her,” Ms. Bailey said. This article is by Gardiner Harris, Benedict Carey and Janet Roberts. Next Article in Health (3 of 15) &#x00bb; Start your 14-day free trial of TimesSelect now. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Johnson & Johnson Inc Next Article in Health (3 of 15) &#x00bb; Everything you need to know about heart disease Hip resurfacing: is it right for you? The changing attitudes towards "chemo brain" Treating the awkward years Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/09/dining/09curi.html?ex=1336363200&en=241e6d2a12065c24&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? - New York Times The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 9, 2007 A COUPLE of weeks ago I saw a new scientific paper from that struck me as both pioneering and hilarious. Skip to next paragraph Accompanied by six graphs, two tables and equations whose terms include “bologna” and “carpet,” it’s a thorough microbiological study of the five-second rule: the idea that if you pick up a dropped piece of food before you can count to five, it’s O.K. to eat it. I first heard about the rule from my then-young children and thought it was just a way of having fun at snack time and lunch. My daughter now tells me that fun was part of it, but they knew they were playing with “germs.” We’re reminded about germs on food whenever there’s an outbreak of E. coli or salmonella, and whenever we read the labels on packages of uncooked meat. But we don’t have much occasion to think about the everyday practice of retrieving and eating dropped pieces of food. Microbes are everywhere around us, not just on floors. They thrive in wet kitchen sponges and end up on freshly wiped countertops. As I write this column, on an airplane, I realize that I have removed a chicken sandwich from its protective plastic sleeve and put it down repeatedly on the sleeve’s outer surface, which was meant to protect the sandwich by blocking microbes. What’s on the outer surface? Without the five-second rule on my mind I wouldn’t have thought to wonder. I learned from the Clemson study that the true pioneer of five-second research was Jillian Clarke, a high-school intern at the in 2003. Ms. Clarke conducted a survey and found that slightly more than half of the men and 70 percent of the women knew of the five-second rule, and many said they followed it. She did an experiment by contaminating ceramic tiles with E. coli, placing gummy bears and cookies on the tiles for the statutory five seconds, and then analyzing the foods. They had become contaminated with bacteria. For performing this first test of the five-second rule, Ms. Clarke was recognized by the Annals of Improbable Research with the 2004 Ig Nobel Prize in public health. It’s not surprising that food dropped onto bacteria would collect some bacteria. But how many? Does it collect more as the seconds tick by? Enough to make you sick? Prof. Paul L. Dawson and his colleagues at Clemson have now put some numbers on floor-to-food contamination. Their bacterium of choice was salmonella; the test surfaces were tile, wood flooring and nylon carpet; and the test foods were slices of bread and bologna. First the researchers measured how long bacteria could survive on the surfaces. They applied salmonella broth in doses of several million bacteria per square centimeter, a number typical of badly contaminated food. I had thought that most bacteria were sensitive to drying out, but after 24 hours of exposure to the air, thousands of bacteria per square centimeter had survived on the tile and wood, and tens of thousands on the carpet. Hundreds of salmonella were still alive after 28 days. Professor Dawson and colleagues then placed test food slices onto salmonella-painted surfaces for varying lengths of time, and counted how many live bacteria were transferred to the food. On surfaces that had been contaminated eight hours earlier, slices of bologna and bread left for five seconds took up from 150 to 8,000 bacteria. Left for a full minute, slices collected about 10 times more than that from the tile and carpet, though a lower number from the wood. What do these numbers tell us about the five-second rule? Quick retrieval does mean fewer bacteria, but it’s no guarantee of safety. True, Jillian Clarke found that the number of bacteria on the floor at the University of Illinois was so low it couldn’t be measured, and the Clemson researchers resorted to extremely high contamination levels for their tests. But even if a floor — or a countertop, or wrapper — carried only a thousandth the number of bacteria applied by the researchers, the piece of food would be likely to pick up several bacteria. The infectious dose, the smallest number of bacteria that can actually cause illness, is as few as 10 for some salmonellas, fewer than 100 for the deadly strain of E. coli. Of course we can never know for sure how many harmful microbes there are on any surface. But we know enough now to formulate the five-second rule, version 2.0: If you drop a piece of food, pick it up quickly, take five seconds to recall that just a few bacteria can make you sick, then take a few more to think about where you dropped it and whether or not it’s worth eating. Next Article in Dining & Wine (4 of 17) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. F.D.A. Says Livestock Were Fed Pet Food With Suspect Chemical China Yields To Inquiry On Pet Food Tainted Pet Food Is Said to Be Still on Shelves Some Suspect Chemical Mix In Pet Food Food Contamination and Poisoning Next Article in Dining & Wine (4 of 17) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Find home & garden professionals in your area today In Home & Garden: View all Home & Garden Classifieds Post Your Ad Now! Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/nyregion/10rent.html?ex=1336449600&en=7aca77d7c81cfc10&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze - New York Times New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Robert Stolarik for The New York Times Kate Harvey, left, and Rebecca Kotler Wein, lived in an office with seven roommates. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 Like the legions of aspiring poets, tap dancers and musicians who came before her, Nina Rubin, a 29-year-old graduate of , has struggled to find halfway decent housing in New York. Earlier this year, she ended up in her most unusual home yet: an office. Skip to next paragraph After taking a job as an instructor at Outward Bound, Ms. Rubin, along with some of her co-workers, settled into the top floor of the organization’s Long Island City headquarters. She camped out in a bunk bed; others converted nearby office cubicles into sleeping spaces, or pitched tents on the building’s roof. To create some privacy, they hung towels and sheets around their bunks. While Outward Bound officials stress that they view these cubicles and tents as temporary housing solutions, Ms. Rubin, who has since moved to Vermont for a short while, was grateful for a free place. As the apartment-hunting season begins, fueled by college graduates and other new arrivals, real estate brokers say radical solutions among young, well-educated newcomers to the city are becoming more common, because New York’s rental market is the tightest it has been in seven years. High-paid bankers and corporate lawyers snap up the few available apartments, often leading more modestly paid professionals and students to resort to desperate measures to find homes. While young people in New York have always sought roommates to make life more affordable, they are now crowding so tightly into doorman buildings in prime neighborhoods like the Upper East Side that they may violate city codes. They are doing so in part because the vacancy rate for Manhattan rentals is now estimated at 3.7 percent, according to data collected by Property and Portfolio Research, an independent real estate research and advisory firm in Boston. It is expected to shrink to 3.3 percent by the end of this year and to 2.9 percent by 2011. “It’s only going to get more difficult to rent an apartment in ,” said Andy Joynt, a real estate economist with the research firm. “While rents continue to rise, it’s not sending people out of the city. There’s still enough of a cachet,” he said. While New York City has always had a vacancy rate lower than most other cities, rental prices jumped last year by a record 8.3 percent. Some potential buyers, scared by the national slowdown in housing sales, decided to rent instead of buy. The housing crunch has also been exacerbated by the steady growth of newcomers. The relocation division of the brokerage company Prudential Douglas Elliman had found homes for 4,000 families moving to the New York, New Jersey and Connecticut area in 2006, a 15 percent jump from the year before, and many of them wanted to live in Manhattan. Stephen Kotler, executive vice president of the division, said he expected business to increase by 15 percent again this year, based on the requests he has already received from banks, consumer-products companies and media firms. Even though his clients can afford high rents, he said, they do not have many choices. “There’s going to be limited inventory and a lot of demand,” Mr. Kotler said. “There just hasn’t been enough rental product built,” he said, as, developers have said that the price of land and the costs of construction in the last few years have made it impractical to build rental buildings. They have instead focused on condominiums. Renters without high salaries have not been shut out of the market. They are squeezing in extra roommates or making alterations as never before much to the frustration of landlords. The rents for one-bedroom apartments in Manhattan average $2,567 a month, and two-bedrooms average $3,854 a month, according to data from Citi Habitats, a large rental brokerage company, but rents tend to be far higher in coveted neighborhoods like the Upper West Side and TriBeCa. Because landlords typically require renters to earn 40 times their monthly rent in annual income, renters of those average apartments would need to earn at least $102,680, individually or combined, to qualify for a one-bedroom and $154,160 to afford a two-bedroom. Young people making a fraction of those salaries are doubling up in small spaces and creating housing code violations, said Jamie Heiberger-Jacobsen, a real estate lawyer with her own practice. She is representing landlords in 26 cases that claim overcrowding or illegal alterations in elevator buildings in Murray Hill, the Upper East and Upper West Sides and the Lower East Side. A year ago, she handled a half-dozen such cases. More Articles in New York Region &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Board Urges Modest Range for Rises in Stabilized Rents SQUARE FEET; Placing Bets on a Strong Manhattan Market Rexford Tompkins, 90; Helped Shape City's Rent Stabilization City Seeks Broader Power to Fix Troubled Buildings at Landlords' Expense More Articles in New York Region &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/fashion/10FOREVER.html?ex=1336449600&en=794fcef5a0a08a86&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Faster Fashion, Cheaper Chic - New York Times Faster Fashion, Cheaper Chic Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 Skip to next paragraph Natasha Calzatti for The New York Times Models at a Forever 21 store in Pasadena, Calif., display trends that appeal to both children and adults. Natasha Calzatti for The New York Times Whether in tidy stores in Southern California, above, or in the hectic setting of Manhattan, merchandise is plentiful. COLIBRI EVANS navigated the aisles of Forever 21 at the Beverly Center last week with a sure step and a shrewd eye. Her mother, Sasha Evans, was more circumspect, offering for Colibri’s approval a string of neo-hippie beads Joss Stone might have coveted. “It’s her job to say ‘Yes, No, Yes, No,’ ” Mrs. Evans said, nodding toward her daughter, a 29-year-old music producer. “She tells me what’s cool and what’s too young for me.” It was Mrs. Evans’s first visit to a store that at first glance seemed to cater exclusively to the sparkle gloss-and-cami set. All the same she was intent on finding “maybe a nice overshirt,” she said, “something summery that hides my questionable areas.” With Mother’s Day just over a week away, a trip to the cavernous fashion bazaar at the uppermost level of the mall promised to cement a bond. “For me it’s a way of our just being together, of spending some quality time with my mom,” Ms. Evans said. Bonding is only part of a larger emotional payoff for recreational shoppers like the Evanses, who throng the store, part of the rapidly expanding Forever 21 chain, giddy at the prospect of daily deliveries of fresh, trend-driven fashions at prices that undercut even those of its competitor H&M, across the corridor. By relentlessly chasing trends and catering to an ever-widening market — young women and matrons, men and toddlers — Forever 21 has positioned itself as a retail powerhouse, the American answer to fast fashion emporiums like the European-based Zara, Mexx and H&M. The privately held company has galloped ahead in recent years, doubling its number of stores to 400 since 2005. Retail analysts estimate sales have grown to more than $1 billion last year from about $640 million in 2005. “They are playing by a different set of rules,” said Howard Davidowitz, a New York retail consultant, partly by catering to entire families rather than focusing on teenagers, but also by rivaling competitors in scale. Forever 21 stores are typically 25,000 square feet, roughly five times that of many Anthropologie or Gap stores. Don and Jin Chang, the founders and owners of the chain, opened their first store on Figueroa Street in downtown Los Angeles in the mid-1980s. The small shop, aimed primarily at schoolgirls, proved successful enough that the Changs, who immigrated from South Korea, were able to add new stores on an average of every six months. By the early ’90s, Forever 21 was a significant mall presence. The purchase of Gadzooks, a Midwest clothing retailer, for about $33 million at auction two years ago placed the chain “in the land of the giants,” Mr. Davidowitz said. Last year the company opened its retail showpiece, a 40,000-square-foot store in Pasadena, Calif., offering women’s, men’s and children’s clothing, accessories and lingerie. Clearly the jewel in the family diadem, it is housed in a former Saks Fifth Avenue with silver candelabra posted at the door. The company also operates a Web site, and, as of this year, 17 free-standing For Love accessories stores. Mrs. Chang, who is in her 50s, cultivates an all-but-invisible profile. She declined to appear for a scheduled interview, dispatching Lisa Boisset, the company’s vice president for merchandise, to speak for her. Ms. Boisset discussed her boss, who appears in photographs as a trim woman with dark hair that swings well past her shoulders, with a born-again zeal. Her eyes appeared to well spontaneously as she talked about the Changs’ deep-rooted spirituality. The Changs’ Christian faith is telegraphed near the bottom of the stores’ trademark yellow shopping bags with the stamp, John 3:16, referring to a biblical passage. Ms. Boisset described the Changs as ever on the prowl for ideas and trends. While it takes a designer like several months to get clothes into stores after their debut on the runways, Forever 21 delivers interpretations of the same looks within six weeks. Among the stores’ hip offerings this month are a club-friendly white cotton corset trimmed in midnight blue lace ($19.80), a scarlet cotton swing jacket cropped well above the waist ($27.80), denim capri pants ($27.80) and a puff-sleeve hoodie sprinkled with tiny hearts ($17.80). The chain says it employs no designers, “just very savvy designer merchants,” Ms. Boisset said. Although these merchants’ skills are at the heart of Forever 21’s success in offering shoppers faithful adaptations of runway hits, the company declined to make them available for an interview. “Our design process is proprietary,” Ms. Boisset said. Next Article in Fashion & Style (1 of 12) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. FRONT ROW; No Hiding From Alice Roi CRITICAL SHOPPER; No Store Is a Hero to Its Valet ONLINE SHOPPER; A Narrow Window Into the Future If There's A Buck In It Somewhere Retail Stores and Trade Trademarks and Trade Names Economic Conditions and Trends Next Article in Fashion & Style (1 of 12) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/health/10psyche.html?ex=1336449600&en=027f7583aa3fc3c4&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role - New York Times Mental Health & Behavior Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry’s Role Fabrizio Costantini for The New York Times Anya Bailey is among a growing number of children given antipsychotic drugs by doctors who are paid by the makers of those drugs. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This By GARDINER HARRIS, BENEDICT CAREY and JANET ROBERTS Published: May 10, 2007 When Anya Bailey developed an after her 12th birthday, her mother took her to a psychiatrist at the who prescribed a powerful antipsychotic drug called Risperdal. Skip to next paragraph The New York Times , Risperdal is not approved to treat eating disorders, but increased appetite is a common side effect and doctors may prescribe drugs as they see fit. Anya gained weight but within two years developed a crippling knot in her back. She now receives regular injections of Botox to unclench her back muscles. She often awakens crying in pain. Isabella Bailey, Anya’s mother, said she had no idea that children might be especially susceptible to Risperdal’s side effects. Nor did she know that Risperdal and similar medicines were not approved at the time to treat children, or that medical trials often cited to justify the use of such drugs had as few as eight children taking the drug by the end. Just as surprising, Ms. Bailey said, was learning that the university psychiatrist who supervised Anya’s care received more than $7,000 from 2003 to 2004 from Johnson & Johnson, Risperdal’s maker, in return for lectures about one of the company’s drugs. Doctors, including Anya Bailey’s, maintain that payments from drug companies do not influence what they prescribe for patients. But the intersection of money and medicine, and its effect on the well-being of patients, has become one of the most contentious issues in health care. Nowhere is that more true than in psychiatry, where increasing payments to doctors have coincided with the growing use in children of a relatively new class of drugs known as atypical antipsychotics. These best-selling drugs, including Risperdal, Seroquel, Zyprexa, Abilify and Geodon, are now being prescribed to more than half a million children in the United States to help parents deal with behavior problems despite profound risks and almost no approved uses for minors. A New York Times analysis of records in Minnesota, the only state that requires public reports of all drug company marketing payments to doctors, provides rare documentation of how financial relationships between doctors and drug makers correspond to the growing use of atypicals in children. From 2000 to 2005, drug maker payments to Minnesota psychiatrists rose more than sixfold, to $1.6 million. During those same years, prescriptions of antipsychotics for children in Minnesota’s Medicaid program rose more than ninefold. Those who took the most money from makers of atypicals tended to prescribe the drugs to children the most often, the data suggest. On average, Minnesota psychiatrists who received at least $5,000 from atypical makers from 2000 to 2005 appear to have written three times as many atypical prescriptions for children as psychiatrists who received less or no money. The Times analysis focused on prescriptions written for about one-third of Minnesota’s Medicaid population, almost all of whom are disabled. Some doctors were misidentified by pharmacists, but the information provides a rough guide to prescribing patterns in the state. Drug makers underwrite decision makers at every level of care. They pay doctors who prescribe and recommend drugs, teach about the underlying diseases, perform studies and write guidelines that other doctors often feel bound to follow. But studies present strong evidence that financial interests can affect decisions, often without people knowing it. In Minnesota, psychiatrists collected more money from drug makers from 2000 to 2005 than doctors in any other specialty. Total payments to individual psychiatrists ranged from $51 to more than $689,000, with a median of $1,750. Since the records are incomplete, these figures probably underestimate doctors’ actual incomes. Such payments could encourage psychiatrists to use drugs in ways that endanger patients’ physical health, said Dr. Steven E. Hyman, the provost of and former director of the National Institute of Mental Health. The growing use of atypicals in children is the most troubling example of this, Dr. Hyman said. “There’s an irony that psychiatrists ask patients to have insights into themselves, but we don’t connect the wires in our own lives about how money is affecting our profession and putting our patients at risk,” he said. Anya Bailey is a 15-year-old high school freshman from East Grand Forks, Minn., with pictures of the actor Chad Michael Murray on her bedroom wall. She has constant discomfort in her neck that leads her to twist it in a birdlike fashion. Last year, a boy mimicked her in the lunch room. “The first time, I laughed it off,” Anya said. “I said: ‘That’s so funny. I think I’ll laugh with you.’ Then it got annoying, and I decided to hide it. I don’t want to be made fun of.” Now she slumps when seated at school to pressure her clenched muscles, she said. It all began in 2003 when Anya became dangerously thin. “Nothing tasted good to her,” Ms. Bailey said. This article is by Gardiner Harris, Benedict Carey and Janet Roberts. Next Article in Health (3 of 15) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Johnson & Johnson Inc Next Article in Health (3 of 15) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » Everything you need to know about heart disease Hip resurfacing: is it right for you? The changing attitudes towards "chemo brain" Treating the awkward years Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/gst/mostemailed.html	Most E-Mailed New York Times Articles in the Past 24 Hours - The New York Times Friday, May 11, 2007 SIGN IN TO E-MAIL THIS Updated Every Fifteen Minutes Articles most frequently e-mailed by NYTimes.com readers. Sign In to E-MAIL This The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny By JENNIFER 8. LEE Some affluent retirees don&#8217;t mind dropping in by air to baby-sit. Sign In to E-MAIL This Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role By GARDINER HARRIS, BENEDICT CAREY and JANET ROBERTS The intersection of money and medicine has become one of the most contentious issues in psychiatry. Sign In to E-MAIL This The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Gorgeous, name-brand pots, pans and gadgets sure are nice, but are they necessary? No, and here&#8217;s how a good cook can outfit an entire kitchen for under $300. Sign In to E-MAIL This The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? Is it safe to eat a piece of food that fell to the floor but was picked up in less that five seconds? Scientists recently put the five-second rule through some microbiology paces. Sign In to E-MAIL This New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Real estate brokers say radical solutions for housing among newcomers are becoming more common. Sign In to E-MAIL This Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard By PATRICIA LEIGH BROWN California is beginning to address the issue of deaths caused by accidents involving objects on highways. Sign In to E-MAIL This Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing The company that makes the painkiller OxyContin pleaded guilty to criminal charges that the firm had misled doctors and patients. Sign In to E-MAIL This SPORTS / PRO BASKETBALL Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Utah point guard Derek Fisher put his daughter&#8217;s health before the playoffs Wednesday, missing most of the game. He then returned to seal the win for the Jazz. Sign In to E-MAIL This Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Research into the genetics of obesity indicates that each person has a comfortable weight range to which the body gravitates. Sign In to E-MAIL This Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies By A. O. SCOTT &#8220;28 Weeks Later&#8221; is brutal and almost exhaustingly terrifying. It is also bracingly smart, both in its ideas and in its techniques. Sign In to E-MAIL This INTERNATIONAL / ASIA PACIFIC Pressed by Police, Even Innocent Confess in Japan Recent criminal cases have shown just how far the Japanese authorities will go in securing confessions. Sign In to E-MAIL This Music: Off the Beaten Beat Away from the bright lights of New York&#8217;s music scene, many artists are finding new performance spaces in strange, intimate locales. Sign In to E-MAIL This Basics: Seizing the Moment There are ways to defeat the shutter lag that can mar action shots. Sign In to E-MAIL This The Real Owner of All Those Planes Steven Udvar-Hazy is a pioneer in airplane leasing, owning more airplanes than any airline in the world. Sign In to E-MAIL This Faster Fashion, Cheaper Chic By RUTH LA FERLA Trends are served fresh daily at Forever 21, the clothing retailer growing like a weed near you. Sign In to E-MAIL This ARTS / ART & DESIGN Harlem&#8217;s Cultural Anchor in a Sea of Ideas By FELICIA R. LEE As the Schomburg Center unveils its $11 million facelift, Harlem itself is also undergoing one of its periodic renaissances. Sign In to E-MAIL This Editorial: Mr. Bush Alone President Bush has yet to acknowledge the reality in Iraq that Congressional Republicans and even administration officials like Defense Secretary Robert Gates now seem to tacitly accept. Sign In to E-MAIL This A new federally backed study shows that juveniles who do time as adults later commit more violent crime than those who are handled through the juvenile courts. Sign In to E-MAIL This Op-Ed Contributor: A Nobel for the Sandman The feats that Sandman performs in comic books and in &#8220;Spider-Man 3&#8221; often correctly display the fascinating properties of granular materials. Sign In to E-MAIL This David Brooks: The Human Community Tony Blair&#8217;s decision to support the invasion of Iraq grew out of the essence of who he is. Sign In to E-MAIL This In the Garden: It Takes a Hammer to Grow This Salad A tiny portable garden is the place to raise greens and herbs. Sign In to E-MAIL This GREAT HOMES / GREAT HOMES A Ski Community Where There&#8217;s No Such Thing as Too Much At the Yellowstone Mountain Club in Big Sky, Mont., every home is within a short schuss of a chair lift and the rich and famous will find every possible amenity. Sign In to E-MAIL This A White Tie Kind of Guy So President Bush, it seems, confounded expectations and managed to keep it together for Queen Elizabeth II&acirc;&#128;&#153;s state visit this week. He didn&acirc;&#128;&#153;t slobber, chug-a-lug from an Evian bottle, spew bits of buttered roll or engage in any impromptu shoulder massages. Bully for him. His only slip-up came when he had a bit of a sequencing problem [...] Sign In to E-MAIL This 36 Hours in St. Petersburg, Russia By CLIFFORD J. LEVY The former Russian capital has recaptured much of its glamour and offers an enchanting landscape not only for lovers of culture but for their children as well. Sign In to E-MAIL This Harvard Task Force Calls for New Focus on Teaching and Not Just Research Nine prominent professors are leading an effort to rethink the culture of undergraduate teaching and learning at Harvard. A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/fashion/10granny.html?ex=1336449600&en=6f9d640b4f754f2c&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny - New York Times The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Photographs by Michael Stravato for The New York times Angela Kim&#146;s baby-sitting routine: On Tuesdays her husband, Augustine, drops her off at a Houston airport. She&#146;s met at the curb in Dallas by her daughter, Andrea, and her son, Noah, 2. Then it&#146;s off to the hospital where Andrea works, where Mrs. Kim takes the wheel. She heads for Noah&#146;s preschool and after that, home for a nap. On Wednesday nights she makes the reverse commute. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 ANGELA KIM spends two days a week baby-sitting for her 2-year-old grandson, Noah, while her daughter, Andrea, a doctor, works nine-hour hospital shifts. Only Mrs. Kim, 57, lives in Houston and her daughter and grandson live in Dallas — 250 miles away. This long-distance child care arrangement means that on Tuesdays Mrs. Kim wakes at 4:45 a.m. to catch a 6:30 a.m. Southwest Airlines flight to Dallas Love Airport, where her daughter and Noah pick her up at the curb. At the hospital, her daughter hops out of the car to make her 8 a.m. shift and Mrs. Kim slips into the driver’s seat. Then she and Noah drive to his preschool, and after that, home, where Mrs. Kim fills her grandson’s next two days with brown rice, seaweed and Konglish, a mix of Korean and English. On Wednesday night, Mrs. Kim does the trip in reverse, catching a 7:30 p.m. flight to the Houston airport, where her husband picks her up. Terri P. Tepper of Barrington, Ill., made a similar trek every week for a year to help care for her granddaughter so that her daughter could pursue her career. Beginning in 2001, Ms. Tepper flew to New York on Sundays and returned to Chicago on Thursdays. “It was cheaper than getting a nanny,” said Ms. Tepper, 64. The round-trip tickets, which her daughter paid for, cost between $190 and $230. “I actually saved them a lot of money,” Ms. Tepper said. Her daughter later made partner in her consulting firm. Even at a time when grandparents are more involved than ever in the lives of their children and grandchildren, the efforts of Mrs. Kim and Ms. Tepper are extraordinary. But many grandparents these days are making extreme efforts to help their children bridge the work-life divide. “To me, grandparents are like the family National Guard,” said Andrew J. Cherlin, a sociologist at who studies intergenerational issues. “They are ready to step in when there is a need, and as soon as that need is met, they are ready to leave active duty.” “In low-income families,” he continued, “it may be the grandmother down the street who helps out. In high-income families, it is the grandmother in a neighboring city who helps out.” Intercity commuting is just one way they provide that help. Grandparents are also taking time off from work, retiring early, moving to the United States from overseas or selling their home to be near grandchildren. The greater involvement results from a confluence of factors, including the financial burdens of child care and anxiety over the quality of care. But most notably it is influenced by a generation of grandparents who have the time and the financial wherewithal to pitch in. “This is the first generation where we have so many older people living long enough, being healthy enough and being affluent enough to provide these services on a large scale” since women entered the workplace in large numbers, Dr. Cherlin said. But the involvement cuts across the economic spectrum. According to the census, 19.4 percent of preschool children with working mothers were primarily entrusted to grandparents in 2002, the latest year for which there are statistics. Grandparents took charge more often than fathers (18.2 percent), day care (19 percent) or hired help (9 percent). In 1995, grandparents ranked third behind fathers and day care centers, at 15.9 percent. There are no figures on how many grandparents go to extremes, because they can afford to, to care for their children’s children. “We call them grandboomers,” said Amy Goyer, national coordinator for the Foundation Grandparent Information Center, which has noticed heightened interest in information and services for grandparents. “They have more disposable income. They may have planned better for retirement.” For example, Judy Chen of Seattle could afford to take a year off as a hospital researcher to move to the Bay Area to baby-sit to help her daughter, a corporate lawyer. Her career was better able to absorb the timeout, she said: She was close to retirement, but her daughter was on a fairly strict career track in her firm. “Compared with her job, I have to sacrifice a little bit,” Mrs. Chen said. Besides, she said, echoing a sentiment expressed in similar terms by other Asian and Latino grandparents interviewed, “I am a Chinese mother.” Stepping in — even moving in — is customary in cultures that stress intergenerational familial obligations. In Mrs. Chen’s case, her sense of obligation to her daughter trumps that to her husband, who was left home alone for a year. “He is lonely, but he has a job,” Mrs. Chen said. Mrs. Chen’s daughter and son-in-law were reluctant to hire a nanny, feeling uncomfortable with strangers raising their son. They said they also worry about day care, expressing a widely shared parental anxiety that was only heightened by a National Institutes of Health study published this year that found some evidence of increased behavior problems among sixth graders the more time they had spent in professional day care. Were it not for the help of her mother and mother-in-law, Andrea Kim said, she would have quit her residency rather than put Noah in day care two years ago. “I couldn’t bring myself to do it,” said Andrea Kim, who had already invested nine years in college, medical school and a residency at that point. “I had a lot of guilt.” And so she proposed the flying granny nanny scenario to her mother. “It was a joke when I first mentioned it, then it turned into a plea,” Andrea Kim said. Some weeks, her mother or her father, Augustine, 61, fly to Dallas, scoop Noah up at the airport curbside pickup and take him to Houston on the next flight. “It’s crazy, isn’t it?” said Mrs. Kim, the grandmother. “Somehow it works out.” Next Article in Fashion & Style (3 of 12) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Get Back to Work SHORTCUTS; Too Busy to Notice You're Too Busy Study Finds Rise in Behavior Problems After Significant Time in Day Care Teaching Movie Moguls to Wipe Drool Families and Family Life Next Article in Fashion & Style (3 of 12) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/08/health/08fat.html	Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside - New York Times Mental Health & Behavior Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 8, 2007 It was 1959. Jules Hirsch, a research physician at , had gotten curious about weight loss in the obese. He was about to start a simple experiment that would change forever the way scientists think about fat. Skip to next paragraph Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times Jules Hirsch, a research physician at Rockefeller University, conducted a simple but groundbreaking experiment on obesity nearly 50 years ago, changing the way scientists think about fat. Gina Kolata answered readers' questions about this article. Obese people, he knew, had huge fat cells, stuffed with glistening yellow fat. What happened to those cells when people lost weight, he wondered. Did they shrink or did they go away? He decided to find out. It seemed straightforward. Dr. Hirsch found eight people who had been fat since childhood or adolescence and who agreed to live at the Rockefeller University Hospital for eight months while scientists would control their diets, make them lose weight and then examine their fat cells. The study was rigorous and demanding. It began with an agonizing four weeks of a maintenance that assessed the subjects’ metabolism and caloric needs. Then the diet began. The only food permitted was a liquid formula providing 600 calories a day, a regimen that guaranteed they would lose weight. Finally, the subjects spent another four weeks on a diet that maintained them at their new weights, 100 pounds lower than their initial weights, on average. Dr. Hirsch answered his original question — the subjects’ fat cells had shrunk and were now normal in size. And everyone, including Dr. Hirsch, assumed that the subjects would leave the hospital permanently thinner. That did not happen. Instead, Dr. Hirsch says, “they all regained.” He was horrified. The study subjects certainly wanted to be thin, so what went wrong? Maybe, he thought, they had some deep-seated psychological need to be fat. So Dr. Hirsch and his colleagues, including Dr. Rudolph L. Leibel, who is now at , repeated the experiment and repeated it again. Every time the result was the same. The weight, so painstakingly lost, came right back. But since this was a research study, the investigators were also measuring metabolic changes, psychiatric conditions, body temperature and pulse. And that led them to a surprising conclusion: fat people who lost large amounts of weight might look like someone who was never fat, but they were very different. In fact, by every metabolic measurement, they seemed like people who were starving. Before the diet began, the fat subjects’ metabolism was normal — the number of calories burned per square meter of body surface was no different from that of people who had never been fat. But when they lost weight, they were burning as much as 24 percent fewer calories per square meter of their surface area than the calories consumed by those who were naturally thin. The Rockefeller subjects also had a psychiatric syndrome, called semi-starvation neurosis, which had been noticed before in people of normal weight who had been starved. They dreamed of food, they fantasized about food or about breaking their diet. They were anxious and depressed; some had thoughts of . They secreted food in their rooms. And they binged. The Rockefeller researchers explained their observations in one of their papers: “It is entirely possible that weight reduction, instead of resulting in a normal state for obese patients, results in an abnormal state resembling that of starved nonobese individuals.” Eventually, more than 50 people lived at the hospital and lost weight, and every one had physical and psychological signs of starvation. There were a very few who did not get fat again, but they made staying thin their life’s work, becoming Weight Watchers lecturers, for example, and, always, counting calories and maintaining themselves in a permanent state of starvation. “Did those who stayed thin simply have more willpower?” Dr. Hirsch asked. “In a funny way, they did.” One way to interpret Dr. Hirsch and Dr. Leibel’s studies would be to propose that once a person got fat, the body would adjust, making it hopeless to lose weight and keep it off. The issue was important, because if getting fat was the problem, there might be a solution to the epidemic: convince people that any weight gain was a step toward an irreversible condition that they most definitely did not want to have. But another group of studies showed that that hypothesis, too, was wrong. It began with studies that were the inspiration of Dr. Ethan Sims at the , who asked what would happen if thin people who had never had a weight problem deliberately got fat. His subjects were prisoners at a nearby state prison who volunteered to gain weight. With great difficulty, they succeeded, increasing their weight by 20 percent to 25 percent. But it took them four to six months, eating as much as they could every day. Some consumed 10,000 calories a day, an amount so incredible that it would be hard to believe, were it not for the fact that there were attendants present at each meal who dutifully recorded everything the men ate. Once the men were fat, their metabolisms increased by 50 percent. They needed more than 2,700 calories per square meter of their body surface to stay fat but needed just 1,800 calories per square meter to maintain their normal weight. When the study ended, the prisoners had no trouble losing weight. Within months, they were back to normal and effortlessly stayed there. This is an excerpt from Gina Kolata’s new book, “Rethinking Thin: The New Science of Weight Loss — and the Myths and Realities of Dieting” (Farrar, Straus & Giroux). Next Article in Health (7 of 15) &#x00bb; Access 100 articles a month from The Archive - get it now with TimesSelect To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. PERSONAL HEALTH; Weight-Loss Drugs: Hoopla and Hype F.D.A. Approves an Over-the-Counter Version of the Weight-Loss Drug Xenical As Obesity Fight Hits Cafeteria, Many Fear a Note From School Next Article in Health (7 of 15) &#x00bb; Everything you need to know about heart disease Hip resurfacing: is it right for you? The changing attitudes towards "chemo brain" Treating the awkward years Miracle On Ice - 1980 Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/08/health/08fat.html?ex=1336276800&en=111c461ec64ee6f6&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside - New York Times Mental Health & Behavior Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 8, 2007 It was 1959. Jules Hirsch, a research physician at , had gotten curious about weight loss in the obese. He was about to start a simple experiment that would change forever the way scientists think about fat. Skip to next paragraph Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times Jules Hirsch, a research physician at Rockefeller University, conducted a simple but groundbreaking experiment on obesity nearly 50 years ago, changing the way scientists think about fat. Gina Kolata answered readers' questions about this article. Obese people, he knew, had huge fat cells, stuffed with glistening yellow fat. What happened to those cells when people lost weight, he wondered. Did they shrink or did they go away? He decided to find out. It seemed straightforward. Dr. Hirsch found eight people who had been fat since childhood or adolescence and who agreed to live at the Rockefeller University Hospital for eight months while scientists would control their diets, make them lose weight and then examine their fat cells. The study was rigorous and demanding. It began with an agonizing four weeks of a maintenance that assessed the subjects’ metabolism and caloric needs. Then the diet began. The only food permitted was a liquid formula providing 600 calories a day, a regimen that guaranteed they would lose weight. Finally, the subjects spent another four weeks on a diet that maintained them at their new weights, 100 pounds lower than their initial weights, on average. Dr. Hirsch answered his original question — the subjects’ fat cells had shrunk and were now normal in size. And everyone, including Dr. Hirsch, assumed that the subjects would leave the hospital permanently thinner. That did not happen. Instead, Dr. Hirsch says, “they all regained.” He was horrified. The study subjects certainly wanted to be thin, so what went wrong? Maybe, he thought, they had some deep-seated psychological need to be fat. So Dr. Hirsch and his colleagues, including Dr. Rudolph L. Leibel, who is now at , repeated the experiment and repeated it again. Every time the result was the same. The weight, so painstakingly lost, came right back. But since this was a research study, the investigators were also measuring metabolic changes, psychiatric conditions, body temperature and pulse. And that led them to a surprising conclusion: fat people who lost large amounts of weight might look like someone who was never fat, but they were very different. In fact, by every metabolic measurement, they seemed like people who were starving. Before the diet began, the fat subjects’ metabolism was normal — the number of calories burned per square meter of body surface was no different from that of people who had never been fat. But when they lost weight, they were burning as much as 24 percent fewer calories per square meter of their surface area than the calories consumed by those who were naturally thin. The Rockefeller subjects also had a psychiatric syndrome, called semi-starvation neurosis, which had been noticed before in people of normal weight who had been starved. They dreamed of food, they fantasized about food or about breaking their diet. They were anxious and depressed; some had thoughts of . They secreted food in their rooms. And they binged. The Rockefeller researchers explained their observations in one of their papers: “It is entirely possible that weight reduction, instead of resulting in a normal state for obese patients, results in an abnormal state resembling that of starved nonobese individuals.” Eventually, more than 50 people lived at the hospital and lost weight, and every one had physical and psychological signs of starvation. There were a very few who did not get fat again, but they made staying thin their life’s work, becoming Weight Watchers lecturers, for example, and, always, counting calories and maintaining themselves in a permanent state of starvation. “Did those who stayed thin simply have more willpower?” Dr. Hirsch asked. “In a funny way, they did.” One way to interpret Dr. Hirsch and Dr. Leibel’s studies would be to propose that once a person got fat, the body would adjust, making it hopeless to lose weight and keep it off. The issue was important, because if getting fat was the problem, there might be a solution to the epidemic: convince people that any weight gain was a step toward an irreversible condition that they most definitely did not want to have. But another group of studies showed that that hypothesis, too, was wrong. It began with studies that were the inspiration of Dr. Ethan Sims at the , who asked what would happen if thin people who had never had a weight problem deliberately got fat. His subjects were prisoners at a nearby state prison who volunteered to gain weight. With great difficulty, they succeeded, increasing their weight by 20 percent to 25 percent. But it took them four to six months, eating as much as they could every day. Some consumed 10,000 calories a day, an amount so incredible that it would be hard to believe, were it not for the fact that there were attendants present at each meal who dutifully recorded everything the men ate. Once the men were fat, their metabolisms increased by 50 percent. They needed more than 2,700 calories per square meter of their body surface to stay fat but needed just 1,800 calories per square meter to maintain their normal weight. When the study ended, the prisoners had no trouble losing weight. Within months, they were back to normal and effortlessly stayed there. This is an excerpt from Gina Kolata’s new book, “Rethinking Thin: The New Science of Weight Loss — and the Myths and Realities of Dieting” (Farrar, Straus & Giroux). Next Article in Health (7 of 15) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. PERSONAL HEALTH; Weight-Loss Drugs: Hoopla and Hype F.D.A. Approves an Over-the-Counter Version of the Weight-Loss Drug Xenical As Obesity Fight Hits Cafeteria, Many Fear a Note From School Next Article in Health (7 of 15) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » Everything you need to know about heart disease Hip resurfacing: is it right for you? The changing attitudes towards "chemo brain" Treating the awkward years Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/business/11drug.html?ex=1336536000&en=1408963d3a4a8436&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing - New York Times Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Photographs by Don Petersen for The New York Times From left, Howard R. Udell, the top lawyer for Purdue Pharma; Dr. Paul D. Goldenheim, the company&#146;s former medical director; and Michael Friedman, Purdue&#146;s president. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 ABINGDON, Va., May 10 — The company that makes the painkiller and three of its current and former executives pleaded guilty Thursday in federal court here to criminal charges that it had misled doctors and patients when it claimed the drug was less likely to be abused than traditional narcotics. Skip to next paragraph Plea Agreement as to The Purdue Frederick Company Plea Agreement as to Howard R. Udell Plea Agreement as to Michael Friedman Plea Agreement as to Paul D. Goldenheim Back Story With The Times's Barry Meier ( The company, Purdue Pharma, agreed to pay $600 million in fines and other payments to resolve the criminal charge of “misbranding” the product, one of the largest amounts ever paid by a drug company in such a case. The three executives, including its president and its top lawyer, also pleaded guilty to misdemeanor charges of misbranding the drug. Together, they agreed to pay $34.5 million in fines. The guilty plea — by Purdue Frederick, an affiliate of Purdue Pharma — is the latest of a number of cases brought by the Justice Department against pharmaceutical makers that accuse them of misbranding, a broad statute that makes it a crime to put false or misleading information about a drug on its label or in ads, or to promote it for unapproved use. , pleaded guilty Thursday to making false statements to the government involving its anti-clotting medicine Plavix. [Page C3.] The Purdue plea underscores the growing pressure on the drug industry over its marketing. On Wednesday, the Senate passed a bill to give the Food and Drug Administration power to oversee drug advertising and labels, and to restrict the distribution of risky medicines. OxyContin is a powerful, long-acting narcotic that provides relief of serious pain for up to 12 hours. Initially, Purdue Pharma contended that OxyContin, because of its time-release formulation, posed a lower threat of abuse and addiction to patients than traditional, faster-acting painkillers like Percocet or Vicodin. That claim became the linchpin of an aggressive marketing campaign that helped the company sell over $1 billion worth of OxyContin a year. Purdue Pharma, based in Stamford, Conn., heavily promoted OxyContin to doctors like general practitioners, who often had little training in treating serious pain or in recognizing signs of drug abuse. But experienced drug abusers and novices, including teenagers, soon discovered that chewing an OxyContin tablet — or crushing one and then snorting the powder, or injecting it with a needle — produced a high as powerful as heroin. OxyContin is a pure, high-strength version of a long-used narcotic, oxycodone. By 2000, parts of the United States, particularly rural areas, began to see soaring rates of addiction and crime related to use of the drug. At a news conference Thursday in Roanoke, Va., John L. Brownlee, the United States attorney for the Western District of Virginia, said the impact of Purdue’s marketing of OxyContin had resulted in rising crime rates, teenage drug addiction, deaths and other problems. “The results of Purdue’s crimes were staggering,” he said. In a statement, the company said the three executives were not aware of the wrongdoing by other company employees. Misdemeanor charges of “misbranding” can be brought against corporate executives even if they are unaware of such crimes. The three men — Michael Friedman, the president; Howard R. Udell, its top lawyer; and Dr. Paul D. Goldenheim, its former medical director — led Purdue at the time of the crimes. The developments marked a sharp reversal for Purdue Pharma, a privately held company. Its executives had defeated hundreds of lawsuits from patients claiming that they became addicted to OxyContin. They also rebuffed critics, including some in Congress, who said that the company’s aggressive marketing of OxyContin may have spurred its abuse. The company’s defenders included the former New York mayor, , whose firm was hired in 2002 by Purdue Pharma as part of a crisis management strategy and to improve security at its manufacturing plant. More recently, Mr. Giuliani, acting as a lawyer for Purdue, took part in several meetings last year between Justice Department officials and defense lawyers for the company and individual executives. Melanie Hillis, a spokeswoman for the Bracewell & Giuliani law firm, which is based in Houston, said that Purdue Pharma was a client of the firm. She said Mr. Giuliani had not been involved in representing the company for several months. The company and the three executives pleaded guilty at a small courthouse in this small city at the edge of Appalachia, a region where OxyContin abuse became so widespread that the drug was dubbed “hillbilly heroin.” Mr. Brownlee and other prosecutors decided to investigate Purdue Pharma after bringing cases against drug addicts as well as local doctors accused of illegally prescribing the drug. “I think we had a responsibility to bring cases against everyone who was making money,” Mr. Brownlee said. Next Article in Business (8 of 32) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Drug Maker Named in Lawsuits Over OxyContin OxyContin Manufacturer Seeks Delay of Rival Drugs Connecticut to Investigate OxyContin Maker Judge Says Maker Of OxyContin Misled Officials To Win Patents Next Article in Business (8 of 32) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/09/dining/09mini.html	A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks - New York Times A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Tony Cenicola/The New York Times See a key to the items in this photograph Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 9, 2007 THE question I’m asked more often than any other is, “What kitchen equipment should I buy?” Skip to next paragraph Tony Cenicola/The New York Times 10-inch nonstick frying pan, $12.95. Like cookbooks, kitchen equipment is a talisman; people believe that buying the right kind will make them good cooks. Yet some of the best cooks I’ve known worked with a battered batterie de cuisine: dented pots and pans scarred beyond recognition, an old steak knife turned into an all-purpose tool, a pot lid held just so to strain pasta when the colander was missing, a food processor with a busted switch. They didn’t complain and they didn’t apologize; they just cooked. But famous TV chefs use gorgeous name-brand equipment, you might say. And you’d be right. But a.) they get much of that stuff free, the manufacturers hoping that placing it in the hands of a well-known chef will make you think it’s essential; b.) they want their equipment to be pretty, so you’ll think they’re important; and c.) see above: a costly knife is not a talisman and you are not a TV chef. Finally (and this is crucial), the best chefs may use the best-looking equipment when they are in public view, but when it is time to buy equipment for the people who actually prepare those $200 restaurant meals, they go to a restaurant supply house to shop for the everyday cookware I recommend to people all the time. In fact, I contend that with a bit of savvy, patience and a willingness to forgo steel-handle knives, copper pots and other extravagant items, $200 can equip a basic kitchen that will be adequate for just about any task, and $300 can equip one quite well. To prove my point I put together a list of everything needed for almost any cooking task. I bought most of the equipment at Bowery Restaurant Supply, 183 Bowery Street (Delancey Street), where the bill came to just about $200. Throw in a few items the store didn’t have and a few extras, and the total would be about $300. (New York happens to have scores of restaurant supply shops, but every metropolitan area has at least one.) I started with an eight-inch, plastic-handle stainless alloy chef’s knife for $10. This is probably the most essential tool in the kitchen. People not only obsess about knives (and write entire articles about them), but you can easily spend over $100 on just one. Yet go into any restaurant kitchen and you will see most of the cooks using this same plastic-handle Dexter-Russell tool. (Go to the wrong store and you’ll spend $20 or even $30 on the same knife.) I found an instant-read thermometer, a necessity for beginning cooks and obsessive-compulsives, for $5. Three stainless steel bowls — not gorgeous and maybe a little thin — set me back about $5. You are reading that right. Sturdy tongs, an underappreciated tool: $3.50 (don’t buy them too long, make sure the spring is nice and tight, and don’t shop for them at a “culinary” store, where they’ll cost four times as much). For less than $6 I picked up a sturdy sheet pan. It’s not an ideal cookie sheet but it’s useful for roasting and baking (not a bad tray, either, and one of the more common items in restaurant kitchens). A plastic cutting board was about the same price. For aesthetic purposes I’d rather have wood, but plastic can go into the dishwasher. At $3, a paring knife was so cheap I could replace it every year or two. I splurged on a Japanese mandoline for $25. (It’s not indispensable, but since my knife skills are pathetic, I use mine whenever I want thin, even slices or a real julienne.) You, or the college graduate you are thinking of, might own some of the things I bought: a $4 can opener; a vegetable peeler (I like the U-shaped type, which cost me $3); a colander ($7, and I probably could’ve gotten one cheaper). You are thinking to yourself: “Humph. He’s ignoring pots and pans, the most expensive items of all.” Au contraire, my friend; I bought five, and I could live with four (though I’d rather have six): a small, medium and large cast-aluminum saucepan (total: about $30); a medium nonstick cast aluminum pan (10-inch; $13); and a large steep-sided, heavier duty steel pan (14-inch; $25). I bought a single lid ($5; I often use plates or whatever’s handy for lids because I can never find the right one anyway). Next Article in Dining & Wine (1 of 17) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. HABITATS/Brooklyn Heights; 4-Star Dinners Conjured From A 1-Star Kitchen THE MEDIA EQUATION; Rachael Ray Gives the Gift Of Time Top of the Food Chain Next Article in Dining & Wine (1 of 17) &#x00bb; A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Find home & garden professionals in your area today In Home & Garden: View all Home & Garden Classifieds Post Your Ad Now! Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/business/11drug.html	Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing - New York Times Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Photographs by Don Petersen for The New York Times From left, Howard R. Udell, the top lawyer for Purdue Pharma; Dr. Paul D. Goldenheim, the company&#146;s former medical director; and Michael Friedman, Purdue&#146;s president. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 ABINGDON, Va., May 10 — The company that makes the painkiller and three of its current and former executives pleaded guilty Thursday in federal court here to criminal charges that it had misled doctors and patients when it claimed the drug was less likely to be abused than traditional narcotics. Skip to next paragraph Plea Agreement as to The Purdue Frederick Company Plea Agreement as to Howard R. Udell Plea Agreement as to Michael Friedman Plea Agreement as to Paul D. Goldenheim Back Story With The Times's Barry Meier ( The company, Purdue Pharma, agreed to pay $600 million in fines and other payments to resolve the criminal charge of “misbranding” the product, one of the largest amounts ever paid by a drug company in such a case. The three executives, including its president and its top lawyer, also pleaded guilty to misdemeanor charges of misbranding the drug. Together, they agreed to pay $34.5 million in fines. The guilty plea — by Purdue Frederick, an affiliate of Purdue Pharma — is the latest of a number of cases brought by the Justice Department against pharmaceutical makers that accuse them of misbranding, a broad statute that makes it a crime to put false or misleading information about a drug on its label or in ads, or to promote it for unapproved use. , pleaded guilty Thursday to making false statements to the government involving its anti-clotting medicine Plavix. [Page C3.] The Purdue plea underscores the growing pressure on the drug industry over its marketing. On Wednesday, the Senate passed a bill to give the Food and Drug Administration power to oversee drug advertising and labels, and to restrict the distribution of risky medicines. OxyContin is a powerful, long-acting narcotic that provides relief of serious pain for up to 12 hours. Initially, Purdue Pharma contended that OxyContin, because of its time-release formulation, posed a lower threat of abuse and addiction to patients than traditional, faster-acting painkillers like Percocet or Vicodin. That claim became the linchpin of an aggressive marketing campaign that helped the company sell over $1 billion worth of OxyContin a year. Purdue Pharma, based in Stamford, Conn., heavily promoted OxyContin to doctors like general practitioners, who often had little training in treating serious pain or in recognizing signs of drug abuse. But experienced drug abusers and novices, including teenagers, soon discovered that chewing an OxyContin tablet — or crushing one and then snorting the powder, or injecting it with a needle — produced a high as powerful as heroin. OxyContin is a pure, high-strength version of a long-used narcotic, oxycodone. By 2000, parts of the United States, particularly rural areas, began to see soaring rates of addiction and crime related to use of the drug. At a news conference Thursday in Roanoke, Va., John L. Brownlee, the United States attorney for the Western District of Virginia, said the impact of Purdue’s marketing of OxyContin had resulted in rising crime rates, teenage drug addiction, deaths and other problems. “The results of Purdue’s crimes were staggering,” he said. In a statement, the company said the three executives were not aware of the wrongdoing by other company employees. Misdemeanor charges of “misbranding” can be brought against corporate executives even if they are unaware of such crimes. The three men — Michael Friedman, the president; Howard R. Udell, its top lawyer; and Dr. Paul D. Goldenheim, its former medical director — led Purdue at the time of the crimes. The developments marked a sharp reversal for Purdue Pharma, a privately held company. Its executives had defeated hundreds of lawsuits from patients claiming that they became addicted to OxyContin. They also rebuffed critics, including some in Congress, who said that the company’s aggressive marketing of OxyContin may have spurred its abuse. The company’s defenders included the former New York mayor, , whose firm was hired in 2002 by Purdue Pharma as part of a crisis management strategy and to improve security at its manufacturing plant. More recently, Mr. Giuliani, acting as a lawyer for Purdue, took part in several meetings last year between Justice Department officials and defense lawyers for the company and individual executives. Melanie Hillis, a spokeswoman for the Bracewell & Giuliani law firm, which is based in Houston, said that Purdue Pharma was a client of the firm. She said Mr. Giuliani had not been involved in representing the company for several months. The company and the three executives pleaded guilty at a small courthouse in this small city at the edge of Appalachia, a region where OxyContin abuse became so widespread that the drug was dubbed “hillbilly heroin.” Mr. Brownlee and other prosecutors decided to investigate Purdue Pharma after bringing cases against drug addicts as well as local doctors accused of illegally prescribing the drug. “I think we had a responsibility to bring cases against everyone who was making money,” Mr. Brownlee said. Next Article in Business (8 of 32) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Drug Maker Named in Lawsuits Over OxyContin OxyContin Manufacturer Seeks Delay of Rival Drugs Connecticut to Investigate OxyContin Maker Judge Says Maker Of OxyContin Misled Officials To Win Patents Next Article in Business (8 of 32) &#x00bb; A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer LIVE WELL ON LESS THAN YOU THINK Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/sports/basketball/11utah.html?ex=1336536000&en=616d67c5b104b2b3&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later - New York Times Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 OAKLAND, Calif., May 10 — Derek Fisher had 30 minutes Tuesday morning to decide whether to remove his daughter’s left eye. Skip to next paragraph Fisher, a point guard for the , sat in an office at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in New York, across from Dr. David Abramson and Dr. Pierre Gobin, asking them how to cure the cancer that had formed in his baby girl’s retina. “He really had three choices,” Abramson said. “Remove the eye, remove the eye or remove the eye.” Last week in Salt Lake City, an advanced case of retinoblastoma, a cancerous tumor of the retina found in about 300 children a year, was diagnosed in Fisher’s 10-month-old daughter, Tatum. Removing the eye is the most common way to remove the tumor. There was one other option, but it seemed too risky. Last year, Abramson and Gobin developed a procedure called intra-arterial chemotherapy, which allows them to treat the disease without removing an eye. Fisher asked about intra-arterial chemotherapy. “I’m not sure how he knew about it,” Abramson said. “He must have done a lot of homework.” Abramson and Gobin have used intra-arterial chemotherapy on only 14 patients. They have not published anything about the procedure. Abramson planned to present it at a scientific meeting next month in Italy. Their secret is out now. Fisher and his wife, Candace, made a joint decision to go ahead with the procedure. The doctors explained that they would have to inject a high dose of chemotherapy into the artery that leads to Tatum’s left eye. “They wanted to try this new technique,” Gobin said. “Anywhere else in the world, this would not have happened.” The procedure was scheduled for Wednesday morning at , but Abramson knew that the Jazz had a playoff game Wednesday night. Abramson is no basketball fan, but he was an alternate on the 1960 United States Olympic swim team, so he understands the pull of athletic competition. Abramson asked Fisher whether they should try to push the appointment back. “Absolutely not,” Abramson recalls Fisher telling him. “Just do what’s best for my child. How many games I miss in the playoffs is totally irrelevant.” Abramson was still not convinced. “I understand,” he remembered telling Fisher. “But this is the pinnacle of what you do. Maybe we can make some adjustments.” Fisher was unmoved. “Absolutely not,” he said again. The procedure went off as scheduled. Abramson and Gobin said they did not rush, but they were aware of the clock. Gobin, who grew up in France, spent nine years at U.C.L.A. Medical Center, rooting for the when Fisher was their point guard. Abramson and Gobin told Fisher late Wednesday afternoon that the procedure was a success, clearing the whole family to fly back to Salt Lake City. On the Jazz’s private jet, Fisher started to visualize Utah’s opponent, the Golden State Warriors. Fisher had a police escort from the airport to the arena. He got a standing ovation when he walked through the tunnel in the third quarter. Instead of going to the bench, he strode right to the scorer’s table, and then onto the floor. “You’re talking about Willis Reed walking in,” Golden State Coach Don Nelson said. Utah’s starting point guard, Deron Williams, had just picked up his fourth foul. Another Utah point guard, Dee Brown, was at the hospital being treated for a neck injury. Fisher, who skipped Game 1 to be with his daughter, could not miss another minute. It had been four days since Fisher shot a basketball, but he caused a key turnover in the fourth quarter and sank a clutch 3-pointer from the corner in overtime, sealing the victory and putting the Jazz ahead, 2-0, with Game 3 on Friday in Oakland. “Sometimes you don’t want to offend people who don’t believe in the Lord,” Fisher told reporters Thursday. “But I definitely think last night was some form of divine intervention.” The doctors were most interested in what Fisher did after the game, when he stood in front of a national television audience, describing the dangers of retinoblastoma and urging parents everywhere to get their children’s eyes checked. Fisher found a way to make an obscure disease part of the playoff subtext. “We could have lost my little girl if we waited any longer,” Fisher said. It was a vintage moment for a basketball ambassador. Fisher has been in the N.B.A. for 11 years, has won three championships and has served as president of the players union. He spent the past two seasons in Golden State, before being traded to Utah, so even the Warriors seemed a little bit happy for him. “Derek was a great teammate and a great leader,” Golden State’s Jason Richardson said. “Everybody looked up to him, trying to find out how to get to his level.” Fisher has made plenty of momentous shots in his career, most notably a turnaround jumper for the Lakers with .04 of a second left at San Antonio in the 2004 playoffs. But he has always been best known for his poise and decision making. Tatum will return to New York in three weeks for another eye exam. If the tumor is shrinking, as Abramson and Gobin predict, she will undergo another treatment of intra-arterial chemotherapy. Most patients require two or three treatments. Fisher cannot relax just yet. He still has doctors’ appointments to schedule and basketball games to play and one unique new cause to rally around. Howard Beck contributed reporting. Next Article in Sports (4 of 26) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. PRO BASKETBALL; Fisher Completes Deal With Golden State PRO BASKETBALL; Role Players for Lakers Play an Important Role PRO BASKETBALL; The Spurs Win ... No, Wait, the Lakers Win ROUNDUP: N.B.A.; Fisher Has His Hand in Lakers' Victory Next Article in Sports (4 of 26) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/nyregion/10rent.html	New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze - New York Times New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Robert Stolarik for The New York Times Kate Harvey, left, and Rebecca Kotler Wein, lived in an office with seven roommates. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 Like the legions of aspiring poets, tap dancers and musicians who came before her, Nina Rubin, a 29-year-old graduate of , has struggled to find halfway decent housing in New York. Earlier this year, she ended up in her most unusual home yet: an office. Skip to next paragraph After taking a job as an instructor at Outward Bound, Ms. Rubin, along with some of her co-workers, settled into the top floor of the organization’s Long Island City headquarters. She camped out in a bunk bed; others converted nearby office cubicles into sleeping spaces, or pitched tents on the building’s roof. To create some privacy, they hung towels and sheets around their bunks. While Outward Bound officials stress that they view these cubicles and tents as temporary housing solutions, Ms. Rubin, who has since moved to Vermont for a short while, was grateful for a free place. As the apartment-hunting season begins, fueled by college graduates and other new arrivals, real estate brokers say radical solutions among young, well-educated newcomers to the city are becoming more common, because New York’s rental market is the tightest it has been in seven years. High-paid bankers and corporate lawyers snap up the few available apartments, often leading more modestly paid professionals and students to resort to desperate measures to find homes. While young people in New York have always sought roommates to make life more affordable, they are now crowding so tightly into doorman buildings in prime neighborhoods like the Upper East Side that they may violate city codes. They are doing so in part because the vacancy rate for Manhattan rentals is now estimated at 3.7 percent, according to data collected by Property and Portfolio Research, an independent real estate research and advisory firm in Boston. It is expected to shrink to 3.3 percent by the end of this year and to 2.9 percent by 2011. “It’s only going to get more difficult to rent an apartment in ,” said Andy Joynt, a real estate economist with the research firm. “While rents continue to rise, it’s not sending people out of the city. There’s still enough of a cachet,” he said. While New York City has always had a vacancy rate lower than most other cities, rental prices jumped last year by a record 8.3 percent. Some potential buyers, scared by the national slowdown in housing sales, decided to rent instead of buy. The housing crunch has also been exacerbated by the steady growth of newcomers. The relocation division of the brokerage company Prudential Douglas Elliman had found homes for 4,000 families moving to the New York, New Jersey and Connecticut area in 2006, a 15 percent jump from the year before, and many of them wanted to live in Manhattan. Stephen Kotler, executive vice president of the division, said he expected business to increase by 15 percent again this year, based on the requests he has already received from banks, consumer-products companies and media firms. Even though his clients can afford high rents, he said, they do not have many choices. “There’s going to be limited inventory and a lot of demand,” Mr. Kotler said. “There just hasn’t been enough rental product built,” he said, as, developers have said that the price of land and the costs of construction in the last few years have made it impractical to build rental buildings. They have instead focused on condominiums. Renters without high salaries have not been shut out of the market. They are squeezing in extra roommates or making alterations as never before much to the frustration of landlords. The rents for one-bedroom apartments in Manhattan average $2,567 a month, and two-bedrooms average $3,854 a month, according to data from Citi Habitats, a large rental brokerage company, but rents tend to be far higher in coveted neighborhoods like the Upper West Side and TriBeCa. Because landlords typically require renters to earn 40 times their monthly rent in annual income, renters of those average apartments would need to earn at least $102,680, individually or combined, to qualify for a one-bedroom and $154,160 to afford a two-bedroom. Young people making a fraction of those salaries are doubling up in small spaces and creating housing code violations, said Jamie Heiberger-Jacobsen, a real estate lawyer with her own practice. She is representing landlords in 26 cases that claim overcrowding or illegal alterations in elevator buildings in Murray Hill, the Upper East and Upper West Sides and the Lower East Side. A year ago, she handled a half-dozen such cases. More Articles in New York Region &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Board Urges Modest Range for Rises in Stabilized Rents SQUARE FEET; Placing Bets on a Strong Manhattan Market Rexford Tompkins, 90; Helped Shape City's Rent Stabilization City Seeks Broader Power to Fix Troubled Buildings at Landlords' Expense More Articles in New York Region &#x00bb; A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Construction Workers Lunching on a Crossbeam, 1932 Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/09/dining/09mini.html?ex=1336363200&en=e39f14d761f1b0bc&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks - New York Times A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Tony Cenicola/The New York Times See a key to the items in this photograph Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 9, 2007 THE question I’m asked more often than any other is, “What kitchen equipment should I buy?” Skip to next paragraph Tony Cenicola/The New York Times 10-inch nonstick frying pan, $12.95. Like cookbooks, kitchen equipment is a talisman; people believe that buying the right kind will make them good cooks. Yet some of the best cooks I’ve known worked with a battered batterie de cuisine: dented pots and pans scarred beyond recognition, an old steak knife turned into an all-purpose tool, a pot lid held just so to strain pasta when the colander was missing, a food processor with a busted switch. They didn’t complain and they didn’t apologize; they just cooked. But famous TV chefs use gorgeous name-brand equipment, you might say. And you’d be right. But a.) they get much of that stuff free, the manufacturers hoping that placing it in the hands of a well-known chef will make you think it’s essential; b.) they want their equipment to be pretty, so you’ll think they’re important; and c.) see above: a costly knife is not a talisman and you are not a TV chef. Finally (and this is crucial), the best chefs may use the best-looking equipment when they are in public view, but when it is time to buy equipment for the people who actually prepare those $200 restaurant meals, they go to a restaurant supply house to shop for the everyday cookware I recommend to people all the time. In fact, I contend that with a bit of savvy, patience and a willingness to forgo steel-handle knives, copper pots and other extravagant items, $200 can equip a basic kitchen that will be adequate for just about any task, and $300 can equip one quite well. To prove my point I put together a list of everything needed for almost any cooking task. I bought most of the equipment at Bowery Restaurant Supply, 183 Bowery Street (Delancey Street), where the bill came to just about $200. Throw in a few items the store didn’t have and a few extras, and the total would be about $300. (New York happens to have scores of restaurant supply shops, but every metropolitan area has at least one.) I started with an eight-inch, plastic-handle stainless alloy chef’s knife for $10. This is probably the most essential tool in the kitchen. People not only obsess about knives (and write entire articles about them), but you can easily spend over $100 on just one. Yet go into any restaurant kitchen and you will see most of the cooks using this same plastic-handle Dexter-Russell tool. (Go to the wrong store and you’ll spend $20 or even $30 on the same knife.) I found an instant-read thermometer, a necessity for beginning cooks and obsessive-compulsives, for $5. Three stainless steel bowls — not gorgeous and maybe a little thin — set me back about $5. You are reading that right. Sturdy tongs, an underappreciated tool: $3.50 (don’t buy them too long, make sure the spring is nice and tight, and don’t shop for them at a “culinary” store, where they’ll cost four times as much). For less than $6 I picked up a sturdy sheet pan. It’s not an ideal cookie sheet but it’s useful for roasting and baking (not a bad tray, either, and one of the more common items in restaurant kitchens). A plastic cutting board was about the same price. For aesthetic purposes I’d rather have wood, but plastic can go into the dishwasher. At $3, a paring knife was so cheap I could replace it every year or two. I splurged on a Japanese mandoline for $25. (It’s not indispensable, but since my knife skills are pathetic, I use mine whenever I want thin, even slices or a real julienne.) You, or the college graduate you are thinking of, might own some of the things I bought: a $4 can opener; a vegetable peeler (I like the U-shaped type, which cost me $3); a colander ($7, and I probably could’ve gotten one cheaper). You are thinking to yourself: “Humph. He’s ignoring pots and pans, the most expensive items of all.” Au contraire, my friend; I bought five, and I could live with four (though I’d rather have six): a small, medium and large cast-aluminum saucepan (total: about $30); a medium nonstick cast aluminum pan (10-inch; $13); and a large steep-sided, heavier duty steel pan (14-inch; $25). I bought a single lid ($5; I often use plates or whatever’s handy for lids because I can never find the right one anyway). Next Article in Dining & Wine (1 of 17) &#x00bb; Don’t have TimesSelect? What are you waiting for? Try it free for 14 days. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. HABITATS/Brooklyn Heights; 4-Star Dinners Conjured From A 1-Star Kitchen THE MEDIA EQUATION; Rachael Ray Gives the Gift Of Time Top of the Food Chain Next Article in Dining & Wine (1 of 17) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Find home & garden professionals in your area today In Home & Garden: View all Home & Garden Classifieds Post Your Ad Now! Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/fashion/10granny.html	The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny - New York Times The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Photographs by Michael Stravato for The New York times Angela Kim&#146;s baby-sitting routine: On Tuesdays her husband, Augustine, drops her off at a Houston airport. She&#146;s met at the curb in Dallas by her daughter, Andrea, and her son, Noah, 2. Then it&#146;s off to the hospital where Andrea works, where Mrs. Kim takes the wheel. She heads for Noah&#146;s preschool and after that, home for a nap. On Wednesday nights she makes the reverse commute. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 ANGELA KIM spends two days a week baby-sitting for her 2-year-old grandson, Noah, while her daughter, Andrea, a doctor, works nine-hour hospital shifts. Only Mrs. Kim, 57, lives in Houston and her daughter and grandson live in Dallas — 250 miles away. This long-distance child care arrangement means that on Tuesdays Mrs. Kim wakes at 4:45 a.m. to catch a 6:30 a.m. Southwest Airlines flight to Dallas Love Airport, where her daughter and Noah pick her up at the curb. At the hospital, her daughter hops out of the car to make her 8 a.m. shift and Mrs. Kim slips into the driver’s seat. Then she and Noah drive to his preschool, and after that, home, where Mrs. Kim fills her grandson’s next two days with brown rice, seaweed and Konglish, a mix of Korean and English. On Wednesday night, Mrs. Kim does the trip in reverse, catching a 7:30 p.m. flight to the Houston airport, where her husband picks her up. Terri P. Tepper of Barrington, Ill., made a similar trek every week for a year to help care for her granddaughter so that her daughter could pursue her career. Beginning in 2001, Ms. Tepper flew to New York on Sundays and returned to Chicago on Thursdays. “It was cheaper than getting a nanny,” said Ms. Tepper, 64. The round-trip tickets, which her daughter paid for, cost between $190 and $230. “I actually saved them a lot of money,” Ms. Tepper said. Her daughter later made partner in her consulting firm. Even at a time when grandparents are more involved than ever in the lives of their children and grandchildren, the efforts of Mrs. Kim and Ms. Tepper are extraordinary. But many grandparents these days are making extreme efforts to help their children bridge the work-life divide. “To me, grandparents are like the family National Guard,” said Andrew J. Cherlin, a sociologist at who studies intergenerational issues. “They are ready to step in when there is a need, and as soon as that need is met, they are ready to leave active duty.” “In low-income families,” he continued, “it may be the grandmother down the street who helps out. In high-income families, it is the grandmother in a neighboring city who helps out.” Intercity commuting is just one way they provide that help. Grandparents are also taking time off from work, retiring early, moving to the United States from overseas or selling their home to be near grandchildren. The greater involvement results from a confluence of factors, including the financial burdens of child care and anxiety over the quality of care. But most notably it is influenced by a generation of grandparents who have the time and the financial wherewithal to pitch in. “This is the first generation where we have so many older people living long enough, being healthy enough and being affluent enough to provide these services on a large scale” since women entered the workplace in large numbers, Dr. Cherlin said. But the involvement cuts across the economic spectrum. According to the census, 19.4 percent of preschool children with working mothers were primarily entrusted to grandparents in 2002, the latest year for which there are statistics. Grandparents took charge more often than fathers (18.2 percent), day care (19 percent) or hired help (9 percent). In 1995, grandparents ranked third behind fathers and day care centers, at 15.9 percent. There are no figures on how many grandparents go to extremes, because they can afford to, to care for their children’s children. “We call them grandboomers,” said Amy Goyer, national coordinator for the Foundation Grandparent Information Center, which has noticed heightened interest in information and services for grandparents. “They have more disposable income. They may have planned better for retirement.” For example, Judy Chen of Seattle could afford to take a year off as a hospital researcher to move to the Bay Area to baby-sit to help her daughter, a corporate lawyer. Her career was better able to absorb the timeout, she said: She was close to retirement, but her daughter was on a fairly strict career track in her firm. “Compared with her job, I have to sacrifice a little bit,” Mrs. Chen said. Besides, she said, echoing a sentiment expressed in similar terms by other Asian and Latino grandparents interviewed, “I am a Chinese mother.” Stepping in — even moving in — is customary in cultures that stress intergenerational familial obligations. In Mrs. Chen’s case, her sense of obligation to her daughter trumps that to her husband, who was left home alone for a year. “He is lonely, but he has a job,” Mrs. Chen said. Mrs. Chen’s daughter and son-in-law were reluctant to hire a nanny, feeling uncomfortable with strangers raising their son. They said they also worry about day care, expressing a widely shared parental anxiety that was only heightened by a National Institutes of Health study published this year that found some evidence of increased behavior problems among sixth graders the more time they had spent in professional day care. Were it not for the help of her mother and mother-in-law, Andrea Kim said, she would have quit her residency rather than put Noah in day care two years ago. “I couldn’t bring myself to do it,” said Andrea Kim, who had already invested nine years in college, medical school and a residency at that point. “I had a lot of guilt.” And so she proposed the flying granny nanny scenario to her mother. “It was a joke when I first mentioned it, then it turned into a plea,” Andrea Kim said. Some weeks, her mother or her father, Augustine, 61, fly to Dallas, scoop Noah up at the airport curbside pickup and take him to Houston on the next flight. “It’s crazy, isn’t it?” said Mrs. Kim, the grandmother. “Somehow it works out.” Next Article in Fashion & Style (3 of 12) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Get Back to Work SHORTCUTS; Too Busy to Notice You're Too Busy Study Finds Rise in Behavior Problems After Significant Time in Day Care Teaching Movie Moguls to Wipe Drool Families and Family Life Next Article in Fashion & Style (3 of 12) &#x00bb; A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/us/11debris.html	Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard - New York Times Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Experts say that today&#146;s do-it-yourself mentality, in part, leads many people, like this driver in Burlington, Ontario, to haul large items. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 SAN FRANCISCO, May 9 — It was just another rush hour. On eastbound Interstate 580 near Pleasanton recently, a rocking chair brought traffic to a near-standstill, while on southbound I-680 near Walnut Creek, a trampoline blocked two left lanes, wreaking havoc on the morning commute. Bagged loaves of sourdough bread blocked U.S. 101, near Petaluma. The highway patrol had to be dispatched. Skip to next paragraph An Average Mile of Litter Video: 'City of Trash' Public Service Announcement On the set of a commercial for a &#147;secure your load&#148; campaign in Washington State, staff members photographed an improperly loaded truck. Last month, a plastic sink was on the loose, stretched across two lanes of the San Mateo Bridge. The sink was something of a departure from the mattresses, aluminum ladders, sofas, buckets — with the occasional spilled Napa County grapes thrown in — that snarled traffic and contributed to the state’s daily accumulation of road debris. While by no means unique to California, pickup trucks and other vehicles piled high with improperly secured loads are a fact of life here, contributing — thanks to the laws of physics — to an estimated 140,000 cubic yards of road debris a year. That is enough to fill 8,750 garbage trucks, which would extend for 45 miles, said Tamie McGowen, a spokeswoman for Caltrans, the state transportation department. And it is increasingly hazardous, experts say. In California, 155 people lost their lives in the last two years after accidents involving objects on highways, and states are beginning to address the issue. Next week, a murder trial is set to begin in the death of a Los Angeles county deputy sheriff who was killed when he swerved to avoid a stolen stove that had fallen from a Long Beach man’s truck. In California and across the nation, where some freeway shoulders have come to resemble weekend yard sales, the nature of road debris has changed, and litter anthropologists are now studying the phenomenon. Where “deliberate” litter used to reign — those blithely tossed fast-food wrappers and the like — “unintentional” or “negligent” litter from poorly secured loads is making its presence felt. Steven R. Stein, a litter analyst for R. W. Beck, a waste-consulting firm in Maryland, attributes the change to more trash-hauling vehicles, including recycling trucks, and the ubiquity of pickup trucks on the country’s highways. In 1986, Mr. Stein said, two-thirds of the debris was deliberate, but surveys now show the litter seesaw balanced. He said the two most recent surveys indicated a further increase in unintentional litter. In Georgia, which recently quantified its litter, 66 percent of road debris comes from unintentional litter, largely unsecured loads. A study in Tennessee last year showed that 70 percent of the state’s debris was unintentional. By dint of its climate, size, population, lengthy growing season, increasingly long commutes and, perhaps, its casual lifestyle, California is a road-debris leader. It is also home to the country’s largest number of registered vehicles — 32 million, twice that of No. 2 Texas — and roughly four million pickup trucks, the most of any state, according to the Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers in Washington. No other state spends more on litter removal, in excess of $55 million, said Christine Flowers-Ewing, the executive director of Keep California Beautiful, a nonprofit environmental education organization. Motorists in California can be fined if anything other than feathers from live birds or water should escape. (In Nebraska, the exception is corn stalks; in Kentucky, coal.) Along with mudslides, brush fires and earthquakes, chance encounters with a set of box springs, a chintz cushion or a crate of lettuces are the daily stuff of radio traffic updates, recounted in excruciating detail. When a tractor-trailer full of freeze-dried oriental soup and vegetables spilled onto the I-710 freeway near Los Angeles, for example, “there was one from Column A, and one from Columns B and C,” said Peter Demetriou, a veteran traffic reporter for KFWB radio in Los Angeles. “The only problem was, it was Lane 1, Lane 2 and Lane 3.” Greg Williams, who has worked for the California Highway Patrol in Bakersfield for 27 years, cited a carrot truck spill in the fog on State Highway 84 as his worst case. “In cities, we chase furniture; in rural areas it’s cattle, sheep, horses, buckets and nails,” Mr. Williams said. “There’s nothing slipperier than a crushed carrot.” More Articles in National &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. California: Request to Toughen Truck Drivers&#8217; Rules National Briefing | West: California: Radio Show Pulled After Contest Death Death Rate on Highways Rises, and Motorcycles Are Blamed More Articles in National &#x00bb; A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/09/dining/09curi.html	The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? - New York Times The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 9, 2007 A COUPLE of weeks ago I saw a new scientific paper from that struck me as both pioneering and hilarious. Skip to next paragraph Accompanied by six graphs, two tables and equations whose terms include “bologna” and “carpet,” it’s a thorough microbiological study of the five-second rule: the idea that if you pick up a dropped piece of food before you can count to five, it’s O.K. to eat it. I first heard about the rule from my then-young children and thought it was just a way of having fun at snack time and lunch. My daughter now tells me that fun was part of it, but they knew they were playing with “germs.” We’re reminded about germs on food whenever there’s an outbreak of E. coli or salmonella, and whenever we read the labels on packages of uncooked meat. But we don’t have much occasion to think about the everyday practice of retrieving and eating dropped pieces of food. Microbes are everywhere around us, not just on floors. They thrive in wet kitchen sponges and end up on freshly wiped countertops. As I write this column, on an airplane, I realize that I have removed a chicken sandwich from its protective plastic sleeve and put it down repeatedly on the sleeve’s outer surface, which was meant to protect the sandwich by blocking microbes. What’s on the outer surface? Without the five-second rule on my mind I wouldn’t have thought to wonder. I learned from the Clemson study that the true pioneer of five-second research was Jillian Clarke, a high-school intern at the in 2003. Ms. Clarke conducted a survey and found that slightly more than half of the men and 70 percent of the women knew of the five-second rule, and many said they followed it. She did an experiment by contaminating ceramic tiles with E. coli, placing gummy bears and cookies on the tiles for the statutory five seconds, and then analyzing the foods. They had become contaminated with bacteria. For performing this first test of the five-second rule, Ms. Clarke was recognized by the Annals of Improbable Research with the 2004 Ig Nobel Prize in public health. It’s not surprising that food dropped onto bacteria would collect some bacteria. But how many? Does it collect more as the seconds tick by? Enough to make you sick? Prof. Paul L. Dawson and his colleagues at Clemson have now put some numbers on floor-to-food contamination. Their bacterium of choice was salmonella; the test surfaces were tile, wood flooring and nylon carpet; and the test foods were slices of bread and bologna. First the researchers measured how long bacteria could survive on the surfaces. They applied salmonella broth in doses of several million bacteria per square centimeter, a number typical of badly contaminated food. I had thought that most bacteria were sensitive to drying out, but after 24 hours of exposure to the air, thousands of bacteria per square centimeter had survived on the tile and wood, and tens of thousands on the carpet. Hundreds of salmonella were still alive after 28 days. Professor Dawson and colleagues then placed test food slices onto salmonella-painted surfaces for varying lengths of time, and counted how many live bacteria were transferred to the food. On surfaces that had been contaminated eight hours earlier, slices of bologna and bread left for five seconds took up from 150 to 8,000 bacteria. Left for a full minute, slices collected about 10 times more than that from the tile and carpet, though a lower number from the wood. What do these numbers tell us about the five-second rule? Quick retrieval does mean fewer bacteria, but it’s no guarantee of safety. True, Jillian Clarke found that the number of bacteria on the floor at the University of Illinois was so low it couldn’t be measured, and the Clemson researchers resorted to extremely high contamination levels for their tests. But even if a floor — or a countertop, or wrapper — carried only a thousandth the number of bacteria applied by the researchers, the piece of food would be likely to pick up several bacteria. The infectious dose, the smallest number of bacteria that can actually cause illness, is as few as 10 for some salmonellas, fewer than 100 for the deadly strain of E. coli. Of course we can never know for sure how many harmful microbes there are on any surface. But we know enough now to formulate the five-second rule, version 2.0: If you drop a piece of food, pick it up quickly, take five seconds to recall that just a few bacteria can make you sick, then take a few more to think about where you dropped it and whether or not it’s worth eating. Next Article in Dining & Wine (4 of 17) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. F.D.A. Says Livestock Were Fed Pet Food With Suspect Chemical China Yields To Inquiry On Pet Food Tainted Pet Food Is Said to Be Still on Shelves Some Suspect Chemical Mix In Pet Food Food Contamination and Poisoning Next Article in Dining & Wine (4 of 17) &#x00bb; A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Find home & garden professionals in your area today In Home & Garden: View all Home & Garden Classifieds Post Your Ad Now! Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/gst/mostemailed.html?partner=rssnyt	Most E-Mailed New York Times Articles in the Past 24 Hours - The New York Times Friday, May 11, 2007 SIGN IN TO E-MAIL THIS Updated Every Fifteen Minutes Articles most frequently e-mailed by NYTimes.com readers. Sign In to E-MAIL This The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny By JENNIFER 8. LEE Some affluent retirees don&#8217;t mind dropping in by air to baby-sit. Sign In to E-MAIL This Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role By GARDINER HARRIS, BENEDICT CAREY and JANET ROBERTS The intersection of money and medicine has become one of the most contentious issues in psychiatry. Sign In to E-MAIL This The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Gorgeous, name-brand pots, pans and gadgets sure are nice, but are they necessary? No, and here&#8217;s how a good cook can outfit an entire kitchen for under $300. Sign In to E-MAIL This The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? Is it safe to eat a piece of food that fell to the floor but was picked up in less that five seconds? Scientists recently put the five-second rule through some microbiology paces. Sign In to E-MAIL This New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Real estate brokers say radical solutions for housing among newcomers are becoming more common. Sign In to E-MAIL This Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard By PATRICIA LEIGH BROWN California is beginning to address the issue of deaths caused by accidents involving objects on highways. Sign In to E-MAIL This Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing The company that makes the painkiller OxyContin pleaded guilty to criminal charges that the firm had misled doctors and patients. Sign In to E-MAIL This SPORTS / PRO BASKETBALL Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Utah point guard Derek Fisher put his daughter&#8217;s health before the playoffs Wednesday, missing most of the game. He then returned to seal the win for the Jazz. Sign In to E-MAIL This Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Research into the genetics of obesity indicates that each person has a comfortable weight range to which the body gravitates. Sign In to E-MAIL This Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies By A. O. SCOTT &#8220;28 Weeks Later&#8221; is brutal and almost exhaustingly terrifying. It is also bracingly smart, both in its ideas and in its techniques. Sign In to E-MAIL This INTERNATIONAL / ASIA PACIFIC Pressed by Police, Even Innocent Confess in Japan Recent criminal cases have shown just how far the Japanese authorities will go in securing confessions. Sign In to E-MAIL This Music: Off the Beaten Beat Away from the bright lights of New York&#8217;s music scene, many artists are finding new performance spaces in strange, intimate locales. Sign In to E-MAIL This Basics: Seizing the Moment There are ways to defeat the shutter lag that can mar action shots. Sign In to E-MAIL This The Real Owner of All Those Planes Steven Udvar-Hazy is a pioneer in airplane leasing, owning more airplanes than any airline in the world. Sign In to E-MAIL This Faster Fashion, Cheaper Chic By RUTH LA FERLA Trends are served fresh daily at Forever 21, the clothing retailer growing like a weed near you. Sign In to E-MAIL This ARTS / ART & DESIGN Harlem&#8217;s Cultural Anchor in a Sea of Ideas By FELICIA R. LEE As the Schomburg Center unveils its $11 million facelift, Harlem itself is also undergoing one of its periodic renaissances. Sign In to E-MAIL This Editorial: Mr. Bush Alone President Bush has yet to acknowledge the reality in Iraq that Congressional Republicans and even administration officials like Defense Secretary Robert Gates now seem to tacitly accept. Sign In to E-MAIL This A new federally backed study shows that juveniles who do time as adults later commit more violent crime than those who are handled through the juvenile courts. Sign In to E-MAIL This Op-Ed Contributor: A Nobel for the Sandman The feats that Sandman performs in comic books and in &#8220;Spider-Man 3&#8221; often correctly display the fascinating properties of granular materials. Sign In to E-MAIL This David Brooks: The Human Community Tony Blair&#8217;s decision to support the invasion of Iraq grew out of the essence of who he is. Sign In to E-MAIL This In the Garden: It Takes a Hammer to Grow This Salad A tiny portable garden is the place to raise greens and herbs. Sign In to E-MAIL This GREAT HOMES / GREAT HOMES A Ski Community Where There&#8217;s No Such Thing as Too Much At the Yellowstone Mountain Club in Big Sky, Mont., every home is within a short schuss of a chair lift and the rich and famous will find every possible amenity. Sign In to E-MAIL This A White Tie Kind of Guy So President Bush, it seems, confounded expectations and managed to keep it together for Queen Elizabeth II&acirc;&#128;&#153;s state visit this week. He didn&acirc;&#128;&#153;t slobber, chug-a-lug from an Evian bottle, spew bits of buttered roll or engage in any impromptu shoulder massages. Bully for him. His only slip-up came when he had a bit of a sequencing problem [...] Sign In to E-MAIL This 36 Hours in St. Petersburg, Russia By CLIFFORD J. LEVY The former Russian capital has recaptured much of its glamour and offers an enchanting landscape not only for lovers of culture but for their children as well. Sign In to E-MAIL This Harvard Task Force Calls for New Focus on Teaching and Not Just Research Nine prominent professors are leading an effort to rethink the culture of undergraduate teaching and learning at Harvard. A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer The New York Times Company
http://movies2.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/movies/11late.html	28 Weeks Later - Movies - Review - New York Times MOVIE REVIEW | '28 WEEKS LATER' MORE ON '28 Weeks Later' The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Emily Beecham in &#34;28 Weeks Later,&#34; directed by Juan Carlos Fresnadillo. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 Nothing satisfies the appetite for allegory quite like a movie about flesh-eating zombies. Somehow the genre, at least as practiced by its masters, has the capacity to illuminate some brute facts about the human condition and its contemporary dysfunctions. There are not many recent movies that match, for example, the social criticism undertaken by George Romero in his “Living Dead” cycle. Skip to next paragraph Anatomy of a Scene: '28 Weeks Later' Movie Minutes: '28 Weeks Later' A group of Londoners run through a tunnel as London is being firebombed in &#34;28 Weeks Later.&#34; and its new sequel, directed by Juan Carlos Fresnadillo, may not quite be in Mr. Romero’s league, but at their best they come close to his signature blend of grisly horror, emotional impact and biting satire. There is, of course, plenty of literal biting as well, since the virus-crazed creatures known as infecteds crave the flesh and blood of their erstwhile fellow citizens. And also their metaphorical flesh and blood. The first movie, set in the early days of a pandemic that nearly wiped out the population of Britain, followed a small band of strangers who came together to form a makeshift tribe. This time, after the first wave of the virus seems to have run its course, the focus is on families and comrades split apart and set against one another by paranoia, moral confusion and the endless conflict between the survival instinct and the call of duty. If “28 Days Later” was, in part, about the emergence of solidarity in the midst of crisis, “28 Weeks Later” is about the breakdown that occurs in what seems to be the aftermath. The DVD of Mr. Boyle’s film has two alternate endings, one slightly more comforting than the other. The hopeful conclusion (the one originally released in American theaters) turns out to be a slender thread leading to Mr. Fresnadillo’s more hectic and somewhat grimmer sequel. The story (written by Rowan Joffe, Mr. Fresnadillo, E. L. Lavigne and Jesus Olmo, with Mr. Boyle and his frequent collaborator, Alex Garland, on hand as executive producers) begins with a terrible failure of nerve. Fleeing a zombie attack, Don (a gaunt, appropriately anxious ) abandons his wife, Alice ( ), to a gruesome and apparently inevitable fate. A few months later, he is safe in the Green Zone, an island of security in London overseen by occupying American troops led by General Stone (Idris Elba). There, he is reunited with his children, Andy (Mackintosh Muggleton) and Tammy (Imogen Poots), who had been on a school trip to Spain during the initial outbreak. He lies to them about their mother’s fate, and his dishonesty is punished in due course. That bit about American soldiers patrolling the Green Zone — see what I mean about allegory? — may make “28 Weeks Later” sound heavy-handedly topical. But as in any good science fiction fable, the analogies it offers to contemporary reality are speculative rather than obvious. The initial benevolence of the occupation is clear enough: a shattered country needs to be put back together, its remaining population protected and reassured. It is only when things spin out of control that the inherent brutality of the situation becomes clear, but here again the movie poses intractable conundrums rather than scoring easy points. To the soldiers and the survivors alike, there are only bad choices, and doing what seems like the right thing — firebombing an open city or rescuing children from the bombs — can turn out to have horrendous consequences. Mr. Fresnadillo’s first movie, the Spanish-language thriller showed him to be a filmmaker with technical agility and a decidedly philosophical bent. Here the thinking is done on the run, as the collapse of order unfolds through scenes of panic and chaos. These are often too frenetically edited and murkily lighted to be truly scary, and the higher dose of gore — infecteds chopped up by helicopter blades; bodies exploding in blood as bullets fly into them — is not enough to increase the horror. The real terror comes at quieter moments, when aerial shots survey the echoing emptiness of London, or when Tammy and Andy sneak out of the Green Zone into the surrounding desolation. “London’s mine,” Andy exclaims, and the claustrophobic suspense of the film is occasionally leavened by a sense of adventure. The threat of death brings out noble impulses as well as selfish ones. Don’s cowardice stands in contrast to the selflessness of some of the American soldiers: Scarlet (Rose Byrne), a medical officer; Doyle (Jeremy Renner), a sniper whose conscience gets the better of him; and, more reluctantly, Flynn (Harold Perrineau), a chopper pilot with pictures of his kids taped above the windshield. “28 Weeks Later” is not for the faint of heart or the weak of stomach. It is brutal and almost exhaustingly terrifying, as any respectable zombie movie should be. It is also bracingly smart, both in its ideas and in its techniques. The last shot brought a burst of laughter at the screening I attended, a reaction that seemed to me both an acknowledgment of Mr. Fresnadillo’s wit and a defense against his merciless rigor. Anyway, I was glad the person next to me was laughing, rather than chewing through my neck. That level of horror will have to wait for the next sequel. “28 Weeks Later” is rated R (Under 17 requires accompanying parent or adult guardian). Rabid zombies feast on living flesh, which causes their potential victims to utter an occasional obscenity. Directed by Juan Carlos Fresnadillo; written by Rowan Joffe, Mr. Fresnadillo, E. L. Lavigne and Jesus Olmo; director of photography, Enrique Chediak; edited by Chris Gill; music by John Murphy; production designer, Mark Tildesley; produced by Enrique López-Lavigne, Andrew Macdonald and Allon Reich; released by Fox Atomic. Running time: 91 minutes. (Don), Rose Byrne (Scarlet), Jeremy Renner (Doyle), Harold Perrineau (Flynn), (Alice), Mackintosh Muggleton (Andy), Imogen Poots (Tammy), Idris Elba (General Stone) and Emily Beecham (Karen). Next Article in Movies (1 of 66) &#x00bb; Report a Problem Post (4.6 stars, 10 votes) Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. MOVIE SHOWTIMES AND TICKETS The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » Kickin' It Old Skool Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/sports/basketball/11utah.html	Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later - New York Times Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 OAKLAND, Calif., May 10 — Derek Fisher had 30 minutes Tuesday morning to decide whether to remove his daughter’s left eye. Skip to next paragraph Fisher, a point guard for the , sat in an office at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in New York, across from Dr. David Abramson and Dr. Pierre Gobin, asking them how to cure the cancer that had formed in his baby girl’s retina. “He really had three choices,” Abramson said. “Remove the eye, remove the eye or remove the eye.” Last week in Salt Lake City, an advanced case of retinoblastoma, a cancerous tumor of the retina found in about 300 children a year, was diagnosed in Fisher’s 10-month-old daughter, Tatum. Removing the eye is the most common way to remove the tumor. There was one other option, but it seemed too risky. Last year, Abramson and Gobin developed a procedure called intra-arterial chemotherapy, which allows them to treat the disease without removing an eye. Fisher asked about intra-arterial chemotherapy. “I’m not sure how he knew about it,” Abramson said. “He must have done a lot of homework.” Abramson and Gobin have used intra-arterial chemotherapy on only 14 patients. They have not published anything about the procedure. Abramson planned to present it at a scientific meeting next month in Italy. Their secret is out now. Fisher and his wife, Candace, made a joint decision to go ahead with the procedure. The doctors explained that they would have to inject a high dose of chemotherapy into the artery that leads to Tatum’s left eye. “They wanted to try this new technique,” Gobin said. “Anywhere else in the world, this would not have happened.” The procedure was scheduled for Wednesday morning at , but Abramson knew that the Jazz had a playoff game Wednesday night. Abramson is no basketball fan, but he was an alternate on the 1960 United States Olympic swim team, so he understands the pull of athletic competition. Abramson asked Fisher whether they should try to push the appointment back. “Absolutely not,” Abramson recalls Fisher telling him. “Just do what’s best for my child. How many games I miss in the playoffs is totally irrelevant.” Abramson was still not convinced. “I understand,” he remembered telling Fisher. “But this is the pinnacle of what you do. Maybe we can make some adjustments.” Fisher was unmoved. “Absolutely not,” he said again. The procedure went off as scheduled. Abramson and Gobin said they did not rush, but they were aware of the clock. Gobin, who grew up in France, spent nine years at U.C.L.A. Medical Center, rooting for the when Fisher was their point guard. Abramson and Gobin told Fisher late Wednesday afternoon that the procedure was a success, clearing the whole family to fly back to Salt Lake City. On the Jazz’s private jet, Fisher started to visualize Utah’s opponent, the Golden State Warriors. Fisher had a police escort from the airport to the arena. He got a standing ovation when he walked through the tunnel in the third quarter. Instead of going to the bench, he strode right to the scorer’s table, and then onto the floor. “You’re talking about Willis Reed walking in,” Golden State Coach Don Nelson said. Utah’s starting point guard, Deron Williams, had just picked up his fourth foul. Another Utah point guard, Dee Brown, was at the hospital being treated for a neck injury. Fisher, who skipped Game 1 to be with his daughter, could not miss another minute. It had been four days since Fisher shot a basketball, but he caused a key turnover in the fourth quarter and sank a clutch 3-pointer from the corner in overtime, sealing the victory and putting the Jazz ahead, 2-0, with Game 3 on Friday in Oakland. “Sometimes you don’t want to offend people who don’t believe in the Lord,” Fisher told reporters Thursday. “But I definitely think last night was some form of divine intervention.” The doctors were most interested in what Fisher did after the game, when he stood in front of a national television audience, describing the dangers of retinoblastoma and urging parents everywhere to get their children’s eyes checked. Fisher found a way to make an obscure disease part of the playoff subtext. “We could have lost my little girl if we waited any longer,” Fisher said. It was a vintage moment for a basketball ambassador. Fisher has been in the N.B.A. for 11 years, has won three championships and has served as president of the players union. He spent the past two seasons in Golden State, before being traded to Utah, so even the Warriors seemed a little bit happy for him. “Derek was a great teammate and a great leader,” Golden State’s Jason Richardson said. “Everybody looked up to him, trying to find out how to get to his level.” Fisher has made plenty of momentous shots in his career, most notably a turnaround jumper for the Lakers with .04 of a second left at San Antonio in the 2004 playoffs. But he has always been best known for his poise and decision making. Tatum will return to New York in three weeks for another eye exam. If the tumor is shrinking, as Abramson and Gobin predict, she will undergo another treatment of intra-arterial chemotherapy. Most patients require two or three treatments. Fisher cannot relax just yet. He still has doctors’ appointments to schedule and basketball games to play and one unique new cause to rally around. Howard Beck contributed reporting. Next Article in Sports (4 of 26) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. PRO BASKETBALL; Fisher Completes Deal With Golden State PRO BASKETBALL; Role Players for Lakers Play an Important Role PRO BASKETBALL; The Spurs Win ... No, Wait, the Lakers Win ROUNDUP: N.B.A.; Fisher Has His Hand in Lakers' Victory Next Article in Sports (4 of 26) &#x00bb; A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/us/11debris.html?ex=1336536000&en=e917b4ee7a21e653&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard - New York Times Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Experts say that today&#146;s do-it-yourself mentality, in part, leads many people, like this driver in Burlington, Ontario, to haul large items. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 SAN FRANCISCO, May 9 — It was just another rush hour. On eastbound Interstate 580 near Pleasanton recently, a rocking chair brought traffic to a near-standstill, while on southbound I-680 near Walnut Creek, a trampoline blocked two left lanes, wreaking havoc on the morning commute. Bagged loaves of sourdough bread blocked U.S. 101, near Petaluma. The highway patrol had to be dispatched. Skip to next paragraph An Average Mile of Litter Video: 'City of Trash' Public Service Announcement On the set of a commercial for a &#147;secure your load&#148; campaign in Washington State, staff members photographed an improperly loaded truck. Last month, a plastic sink was on the loose, stretched across two lanes of the San Mateo Bridge. The sink was something of a departure from the mattresses, aluminum ladders, sofas, buckets — with the occasional spilled Napa County grapes thrown in — that snarled traffic and contributed to the state’s daily accumulation of road debris. While by no means unique to California, pickup trucks and other vehicles piled high with improperly secured loads are a fact of life here, contributing — thanks to the laws of physics — to an estimated 140,000 cubic yards of road debris a year. That is enough to fill 8,750 garbage trucks, which would extend for 45 miles, said Tamie McGowen, a spokeswoman for Caltrans, the state transportation department. And it is increasingly hazardous, experts say. In California, 155 people lost their lives in the last two years after accidents involving objects on highways, and states are beginning to address the issue. Next week, a murder trial is set to begin in the death of a Los Angeles county deputy sheriff who was killed when he swerved to avoid a stolen stove that had fallen from a Long Beach man’s truck. In California and across the nation, where some freeway shoulders have come to resemble weekend yard sales, the nature of road debris has changed, and litter anthropologists are now studying the phenomenon. Where “deliberate” litter used to reign — those blithely tossed fast-food wrappers and the like — “unintentional” or “negligent” litter from poorly secured loads is making its presence felt. Steven R. Stein, a litter analyst for R. W. Beck, a waste-consulting firm in Maryland, attributes the change to more trash-hauling vehicles, including recycling trucks, and the ubiquity of pickup trucks on the country’s highways. In 1986, Mr. Stein said, two-thirds of the debris was deliberate, but surveys now show the litter seesaw balanced. He said the two most recent surveys indicated a further increase in unintentional litter. In Georgia, which recently quantified its litter, 66 percent of road debris comes from unintentional litter, largely unsecured loads. A study in Tennessee last year showed that 70 percent of the state’s debris was unintentional. By dint of its climate, size, population, lengthy growing season, increasingly long commutes and, perhaps, its casual lifestyle, California is a road-debris leader. It is also home to the country’s largest number of registered vehicles — 32 million, twice that of No. 2 Texas — and roughly four million pickup trucks, the most of any state, according to the Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers in Washington. No other state spends more on litter removal, in excess of $55 million, said Christine Flowers-Ewing, the executive director of Keep California Beautiful, a nonprofit environmental education organization. Motorists in California can be fined if anything other than feathers from live birds or water should escape. (In Nebraska, the exception is corn stalks; in Kentucky, coal.) Along with mudslides, brush fires and earthquakes, chance encounters with a set of box springs, a chintz cushion or a crate of lettuces are the daily stuff of radio traffic updates, recounted in excruciating detail. When a tractor-trailer full of freeze-dried oriental soup and vegetables spilled onto the I-710 freeway near Los Angeles, for example, “there was one from Column A, and one from Columns B and C,” said Peter Demetriou, a veteran traffic reporter for KFWB radio in Los Angeles. “The only problem was, it was Lane 1, Lane 2 and Lane 3.” Greg Williams, who has worked for the California Highway Patrol in Bakersfield for 27 years, cited a carrot truck spill in the fog on State Highway 84 as his worst case. “In cities, we chase furniture; in rural areas it’s cattle, sheep, horses, buckets and nails,” Mr. Williams said. “There’s nothing slipperier than a crushed carrot.” More Articles in National &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. California: Request to Toughen Truck Drivers&#8217; Rules National Briefing | West: California: Radio Show Pulled After Contest Death Death Rate on Highways Rises, and Motorcycles Are Blamed More Articles in National &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/health/10psyche.html	Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role - New York Times Mental Health & Behavior Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry’s Role Fabrizio Costantini for The New York Times Anya Bailey is among a growing number of children given antipsychotic drugs by doctors who are paid by the makers of those drugs. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This By GARDINER HARRIS, BENEDICT CAREY and JANET ROBERTS Published: May 10, 2007 When Anya Bailey developed an after her 12th birthday, her mother took her to a psychiatrist at the who prescribed a powerful antipsychotic drug called Risperdal. Skip to next paragraph The New York Times , Risperdal is not approved to treat eating disorders, but increased appetite is a common side effect and doctors may prescribe drugs as they see fit. Anya gained weight but within two years developed a crippling knot in her back. She now receives regular injections of Botox to unclench her back muscles. She often awakens crying in pain. Isabella Bailey, Anya’s mother, said she had no idea that children might be especially susceptible to Risperdal’s side effects. Nor did she know that Risperdal and similar medicines were not approved at the time to treat children, or that medical trials often cited to justify the use of such drugs had as few as eight children taking the drug by the end. Just as surprising, Ms. Bailey said, was learning that the university psychiatrist who supervised Anya’s care received more than $7,000 from 2003 to 2004 from Johnson & Johnson, Risperdal’s maker, in return for lectures about one of the company’s drugs. Doctors, including Anya Bailey’s, maintain that payments from drug companies do not influence what they prescribe for patients. But the intersection of money and medicine, and its effect on the well-being of patients, has become one of the most contentious issues in health care. Nowhere is that more true than in psychiatry, where increasing payments to doctors have coincided with the growing use in children of a relatively new class of drugs known as atypical antipsychotics. These best-selling drugs, including Risperdal, Seroquel, Zyprexa, Abilify and Geodon, are now being prescribed to more than half a million children in the United States to help parents deal with behavior problems despite profound risks and almost no approved uses for minors. A New York Times analysis of records in Minnesota, the only state that requires public reports of all drug company marketing payments to doctors, provides rare documentation of how financial relationships between doctors and drug makers correspond to the growing use of atypicals in children. From 2000 to 2005, drug maker payments to Minnesota psychiatrists rose more than sixfold, to $1.6 million. During those same years, prescriptions of antipsychotics for children in Minnesota’s Medicaid program rose more than ninefold. Those who took the most money from makers of atypicals tended to prescribe the drugs to children the most often, the data suggest. On average, Minnesota psychiatrists who received at least $5,000 from atypical makers from 2000 to 2005 appear to have written three times as many atypical prescriptions for children as psychiatrists who received less or no money. The Times analysis focused on prescriptions written for about one-third of Minnesota’s Medicaid population, almost all of whom are disabled. Some doctors were misidentified by pharmacists, but the information provides a rough guide to prescribing patterns in the state. Drug makers underwrite decision makers at every level of care. They pay doctors who prescribe and recommend drugs, teach about the underlying diseases, perform studies and write guidelines that other doctors often feel bound to follow. But studies present strong evidence that financial interests can affect decisions, often without people knowing it. In Minnesota, psychiatrists collected more money from drug makers from 2000 to 2005 than doctors in any other specialty. Total payments to individual psychiatrists ranged from $51 to more than $689,000, with a median of $1,750. Since the records are incomplete, these figures probably underestimate doctors’ actual incomes. Such payments could encourage psychiatrists to use drugs in ways that endanger patients’ physical health, said Dr. Steven E. Hyman, the provost of and former director of the National Institute of Mental Health. The growing use of atypicals in children is the most troubling example of this, Dr. Hyman said. “There’s an irony that psychiatrists ask patients to have insights into themselves, but we don’t connect the wires in our own lives about how money is affecting our profession and putting our patients at risk,” he said. Anya Bailey is a 15-year-old high school freshman from East Grand Forks, Minn., with pictures of the actor Chad Michael Murray on her bedroom wall. She has constant discomfort in her neck that leads her to twist it in a birdlike fashion. Last year, a boy mimicked her in the lunch room. “The first time, I laughed it off,” Anya said. “I said: ‘That’s so funny. I think I’ll laugh with you.’ Then it got annoying, and I decided to hide it. I don’t want to be made fun of.” Now she slumps when seated at school to pressure her clenched muscles, she said. It all began in 2003 when Anya became dangerously thin. “Nothing tasted good to her,” Ms. Bailey said. This article is by Gardiner Harris, Benedict Carey and Janet Roberts. Next Article in Health (3 of 15) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Johnson & Johnson Inc Next Article in Health (3 of 15) &#x00bb; Everything you need to know about heart disease Hip resurfacing: is it right for you? The changing attitudes towards "chemo brain" Treating the awkward years Snowy Owl, Plate 121 Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/09/dining/09curi.html?ex=1336363200&en=241e6d2a12065c24&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? - New York Times The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 9, 2007 A COUPLE of weeks ago I saw a new scientific paper from that struck me as both pioneering and hilarious. Skip to next paragraph Accompanied by six graphs, two tables and equations whose terms include “bologna” and “carpet,” it’s a thorough microbiological study of the five-second rule: the idea that if you pick up a dropped piece of food before you can count to five, it’s O.K. to eat it. I first heard about the rule from my then-young children and thought it was just a way of having fun at snack time and lunch. My daughter now tells me that fun was part of it, but they knew they were playing with “germs.” We’re reminded about germs on food whenever there’s an outbreak of E. coli or salmonella, and whenever we read the labels on packages of uncooked meat. But we don’t have much occasion to think about the everyday practice of retrieving and eating dropped pieces of food. Microbes are everywhere around us, not just on floors. They thrive in wet kitchen sponges and end up on freshly wiped countertops. As I write this column, on an airplane, I realize that I have removed a chicken sandwich from its protective plastic sleeve and put it down repeatedly on the sleeve’s outer surface, which was meant to protect the sandwich by blocking microbes. What’s on the outer surface? Without the five-second rule on my mind I wouldn’t have thought to wonder. I learned from the Clemson study that the true pioneer of five-second research was Jillian Clarke, a high-school intern at the in 2003. Ms. Clarke conducted a survey and found that slightly more than half of the men and 70 percent of the women knew of the five-second rule, and many said they followed it. She did an experiment by contaminating ceramic tiles with E. coli, placing gummy bears and cookies on the tiles for the statutory five seconds, and then analyzing the foods. They had become contaminated with bacteria. For performing this first test of the five-second rule, Ms. Clarke was recognized by the Annals of Improbable Research with the 2004 Ig Nobel Prize in public health. It’s not surprising that food dropped onto bacteria would collect some bacteria. But how many? Does it collect more as the seconds tick by? Enough to make you sick? Prof. Paul L. Dawson and his colleagues at Clemson have now put some numbers on floor-to-food contamination. Their bacterium of choice was salmonella; the test surfaces were tile, wood flooring and nylon carpet; and the test foods were slices of bread and bologna. First the researchers measured how long bacteria could survive on the surfaces. They applied salmonella broth in doses of several million bacteria per square centimeter, a number typical of badly contaminated food. I had thought that most bacteria were sensitive to drying out, but after 24 hours of exposure to the air, thousands of bacteria per square centimeter had survived on the tile and wood, and tens of thousands on the carpet. Hundreds of salmonella were still alive after 28 days. Professor Dawson and colleagues then placed test food slices onto salmonella-painted surfaces for varying lengths of time, and counted how many live bacteria were transferred to the food. On surfaces that had been contaminated eight hours earlier, slices of bologna and bread left for five seconds took up from 150 to 8,000 bacteria. Left for a full minute, slices collected about 10 times more than that from the tile and carpet, though a lower number from the wood. What do these numbers tell us about the five-second rule? Quick retrieval does mean fewer bacteria, but it’s no guarantee of safety. True, Jillian Clarke found that the number of bacteria on the floor at the University of Illinois was so low it couldn’t be measured, and the Clemson researchers resorted to extremely high contamination levels for their tests. But even if a floor — or a countertop, or wrapper — carried only a thousandth the number of bacteria applied by the researchers, the piece of food would be likely to pick up several bacteria. The infectious dose, the smallest number of bacteria that can actually cause illness, is as few as 10 for some salmonellas, fewer than 100 for the deadly strain of E. coli. Of course we can never know for sure how many harmful microbes there are on any surface. But we know enough now to formulate the five-second rule, version 2.0: If you drop a piece of food, pick it up quickly, take five seconds to recall that just a few bacteria can make you sick, then take a few more to think about where you dropped it and whether or not it’s worth eating. Next Article in Dining & Wine (4 of 17) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. F.D.A. Says Livestock Were Fed Pet Food With Suspect Chemical China Yields To Inquiry On Pet Food Tainted Pet Food Is Said to Be Still on Shelves Some Suspect Chemical Mix In Pet Food Food Contamination and Poisoning Next Article in Dining & Wine (4 of 17) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Find home & garden professionals in your area today In Home & Garden: View all Home & Garden Classifieds Post Your Ad Now! Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/nyregion/10rent.html?ex=1336449600&en=7aca77d7c81cfc10&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze - New York Times New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Robert Stolarik for The New York Times Kate Harvey, left, and Rebecca Kotler Wein, lived in an office with seven roommates. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 Like the legions of aspiring poets, tap dancers and musicians who came before her, Nina Rubin, a 29-year-old graduate of , has struggled to find halfway decent housing in New York. Earlier this year, she ended up in her most unusual home yet: an office. Skip to next paragraph After taking a job as an instructor at Outward Bound, Ms. Rubin, along with some of her co-workers, settled into the top floor of the organization’s Long Island City headquarters. She camped out in a bunk bed; others converted nearby office cubicles into sleeping spaces, or pitched tents on the building’s roof. To create some privacy, they hung towels and sheets around their bunks. While Outward Bound officials stress that they view these cubicles and tents as temporary housing solutions, Ms. Rubin, who has since moved to Vermont for a short while, was grateful for a free place. As the apartment-hunting season begins, fueled by college graduates and other new arrivals, real estate brokers say radical solutions among young, well-educated newcomers to the city are becoming more common, because New York’s rental market is the tightest it has been in seven years. High-paid bankers and corporate lawyers snap up the few available apartments, often leading more modestly paid professionals and students to resort to desperate measures to find homes. While young people in New York have always sought roommates to make life more affordable, they are now crowding so tightly into doorman buildings in prime neighborhoods like the Upper East Side that they may violate city codes. They are doing so in part because the vacancy rate for Manhattan rentals is now estimated at 3.7 percent, according to data collected by Property and Portfolio Research, an independent real estate research and advisory firm in Boston. It is expected to shrink to 3.3 percent by the end of this year and to 2.9 percent by 2011. “It’s only going to get more difficult to rent an apartment in ,” said Andy Joynt, a real estate economist with the research firm. “While rents continue to rise, it’s not sending people out of the city. There’s still enough of a cachet,” he said. While New York City has always had a vacancy rate lower than most other cities, rental prices jumped last year by a record 8.3 percent. Some potential buyers, scared by the national slowdown in housing sales, decided to rent instead of buy. The housing crunch has also been exacerbated by the steady growth of newcomers. The relocation division of the brokerage company Prudential Douglas Elliman had found homes for 4,000 families moving to the New York, New Jersey and Connecticut area in 2006, a 15 percent jump from the year before, and many of them wanted to live in Manhattan. Stephen Kotler, executive vice president of the division, said he expected business to increase by 15 percent again this year, based on the requests he has already received from banks, consumer-products companies and media firms. Even though his clients can afford high rents, he said, they do not have many choices. “There’s going to be limited inventory and a lot of demand,” Mr. Kotler said. “There just hasn’t been enough rental product built,” he said, as, developers have said that the price of land and the costs of construction in the last few years have made it impractical to build rental buildings. They have instead focused on condominiums. Renters without high salaries have not been shut out of the market. They are squeezing in extra roommates or making alterations as never before much to the frustration of landlords. The rents for one-bedroom apartments in Manhattan average $2,567 a month, and two-bedrooms average $3,854 a month, according to data from Citi Habitats, a large rental brokerage company, but rents tend to be far higher in coveted neighborhoods like the Upper West Side and TriBeCa. Because landlords typically require renters to earn 40 times their monthly rent in annual income, renters of those average apartments would need to earn at least $102,680, individually or combined, to qualify for a one-bedroom and $154,160 to afford a two-bedroom. Young people making a fraction of those salaries are doubling up in small spaces and creating housing code violations, said Jamie Heiberger-Jacobsen, a real estate lawyer with her own practice. She is representing landlords in 26 cases that claim overcrowding or illegal alterations in elevator buildings in Murray Hill, the Upper East and Upper West Sides and the Lower East Side. A year ago, she handled a half-dozen such cases. More Articles in New York Region &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Board Urges Modest Range for Rises in Stabilized Rents SQUARE FEET; Placing Bets on a Strong Manhattan Market Rexford Tompkins, 90; Helped Shape City's Rent Stabilization City Seeks Broader Power to Fix Troubled Buildings at Landlords' Expense More Articles in New York Region &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Yankee Stadium, Opening Day - 1923 Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/health/10psyche.html?ex=1336449600&en=027f7583aa3fc3c4&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role - New York Times Mental Health & Behavior Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry’s Role Fabrizio Costantini for The New York Times Anya Bailey is among a growing number of children given antipsychotic drugs by doctors who are paid by the makers of those drugs. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This By GARDINER HARRIS, BENEDICT CAREY and JANET ROBERTS Published: May 10, 2007 When Anya Bailey developed an after her 12th birthday, her mother took her to a psychiatrist at the who prescribed a powerful antipsychotic drug called Risperdal. Skip to next paragraph The New York Times , Risperdal is not approved to treat eating disorders, but increased appetite is a common side effect and doctors may prescribe drugs as they see fit. Anya gained weight but within two years developed a crippling knot in her back. She now receives regular injections of Botox to unclench her back muscles. She often awakens crying in pain. Isabella Bailey, Anya’s mother, said she had no idea that children might be especially susceptible to Risperdal’s side effects. Nor did she know that Risperdal and similar medicines were not approved at the time to treat children, or that medical trials often cited to justify the use of such drugs had as few as eight children taking the drug by the end. Just as surprising, Ms. Bailey said, was learning that the university psychiatrist who supervised Anya’s care received more than $7,000 from 2003 to 2004 from Johnson & Johnson, Risperdal’s maker, in return for lectures about one of the company’s drugs. Doctors, including Anya Bailey’s, maintain that payments from drug companies do not influence what they prescribe for patients. But the intersection of money and medicine, and its effect on the well-being of patients, has become one of the most contentious issues in health care. Nowhere is that more true than in psychiatry, where increasing payments to doctors have coincided with the growing use in children of a relatively new class of drugs known as atypical antipsychotics. These best-selling drugs, including Risperdal, Seroquel, Zyprexa, Abilify and Geodon, are now being prescribed to more than half a million children in the United States to help parents deal with behavior problems despite profound risks and almost no approved uses for minors. A New York Times analysis of records in Minnesota, the only state that requires public reports of all drug company marketing payments to doctors, provides rare documentation of how financial relationships between doctors and drug makers correspond to the growing use of atypicals in children. From 2000 to 2005, drug maker payments to Minnesota psychiatrists rose more than sixfold, to $1.6 million. During those same years, prescriptions of antipsychotics for children in Minnesota’s Medicaid program rose more than ninefold. Those who took the most money from makers of atypicals tended to prescribe the drugs to children the most often, the data suggest. On average, Minnesota psychiatrists who received at least $5,000 from atypical makers from 2000 to 2005 appear to have written three times as many atypical prescriptions for children as psychiatrists who received less or no money. The Times analysis focused on prescriptions written for about one-third of Minnesota’s Medicaid population, almost all of whom are disabled. Some doctors were misidentified by pharmacists, but the information provides a rough guide to prescribing patterns in the state. Drug makers underwrite decision makers at every level of care. They pay doctors who prescribe and recommend drugs, teach about the underlying diseases, perform studies and write guidelines that other doctors often feel bound to follow. But studies present strong evidence that financial interests can affect decisions, often without people knowing it. In Minnesota, psychiatrists collected more money from drug makers from 2000 to 2005 than doctors in any other specialty. Total payments to individual psychiatrists ranged from $51 to more than $689,000, with a median of $1,750. Since the records are incomplete, these figures probably underestimate doctors’ actual incomes. Such payments could encourage psychiatrists to use drugs in ways that endanger patients’ physical health, said Dr. Steven E. Hyman, the provost of and former director of the National Institute of Mental Health. The growing use of atypicals in children is the most troubling example of this, Dr. Hyman said. “There’s an irony that psychiatrists ask patients to have insights into themselves, but we don’t connect the wires in our own lives about how money is affecting our profession and putting our patients at risk,” he said. Anya Bailey is a 15-year-old high school freshman from East Grand Forks, Minn., with pictures of the actor Chad Michael Murray on her bedroom wall. She has constant discomfort in her neck that leads her to twist it in a birdlike fashion. Last year, a boy mimicked her in the lunch room. “The first time, I laughed it off,” Anya said. “I said: ‘That’s so funny. I think I’ll laugh with you.’ Then it got annoying, and I decided to hide it. I don’t want to be made fun of.” Now she slumps when seated at school to pressure her clenched muscles, she said. It all began in 2003 when Anya became dangerously thin. “Nothing tasted good to her,” Ms. Bailey said. This article is by Gardiner Harris, Benedict Carey and Janet Roberts. Next Article in Health (3 of 15) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Johnson & Johnson Inc Next Article in Health (3 of 15) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » Everything you need to know about heart disease Hip resurfacing: is it right for you? The changing attitudes towards "chemo brain" Treating the awkward years Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://movies2.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/movies/11late.html?ex=1336536000&en=08b42f416e1ef2fc&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	28 Weeks Later - Movies - Review - New York Times MOVIE REVIEW | '28 WEEKS LATER' MORE ON '28 Weeks Later' The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Emily Beecham in &#34;28 Weeks Later,&#34; directed by Juan Carlos Fresnadillo. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 Nothing satisfies the appetite for allegory quite like a movie about flesh-eating zombies. Somehow the genre, at least as practiced by its masters, has the capacity to illuminate some brute facts about the human condition and its contemporary dysfunctions. There are not many recent movies that match, for example, the social criticism undertaken by George Romero in his “Living Dead” cycle. Skip to next paragraph Anatomy of a Scene: '28 Weeks Later' Movie Minutes: '28 Weeks Later' A group of Londoners run through a tunnel as London is being firebombed in &#34;28 Weeks Later.&#34; and its new sequel, directed by Juan Carlos Fresnadillo, may not quite be in Mr. Romero’s league, but at their best they come close to his signature blend of grisly horror, emotional impact and biting satire. There is, of course, plenty of literal biting as well, since the virus-crazed creatures known as infecteds crave the flesh and blood of their erstwhile fellow citizens. And also their metaphorical flesh and blood. The first movie, set in the early days of a pandemic that nearly wiped out the population of Britain, followed a small band of strangers who came together to form a makeshift tribe. This time, after the first wave of the virus seems to have run its course, the focus is on families and comrades split apart and set against one another by paranoia, moral confusion and the endless conflict between the survival instinct and the call of duty. If “28 Days Later” was, in part, about the emergence of solidarity in the midst of crisis, “28 Weeks Later” is about the breakdown that occurs in what seems to be the aftermath. The DVD of Mr. Boyle’s film has two alternate endings, one slightly more comforting than the other. The hopeful conclusion (the one originally released in American theaters) turns out to be a slender thread leading to Mr. Fresnadillo’s more hectic and somewhat grimmer sequel. The story (written by Rowan Joffe, Mr. Fresnadillo, E. L. Lavigne and Jesus Olmo, with Mr. Boyle and his frequent collaborator, Alex Garland, on hand as executive producers) begins with a terrible failure of nerve. Fleeing a zombie attack, Don (a gaunt, appropriately anxious ) abandons his wife, Alice ( ), to a gruesome and apparently inevitable fate. A few months later, he is safe in the Green Zone, an island of security in London overseen by occupying American troops led by General Stone (Idris Elba). There, he is reunited with his children, Andy (Mackintosh Muggleton) and Tammy (Imogen Poots), who had been on a school trip to Spain during the initial outbreak. He lies to them about their mother’s fate, and his dishonesty is punished in due course. That bit about American soldiers patrolling the Green Zone — see what I mean about allegory? — may make “28 Weeks Later” sound heavy-handedly topical. But as in any good science fiction fable, the analogies it offers to contemporary reality are speculative rather than obvious. The initial benevolence of the occupation is clear enough: a shattered country needs to be put back together, its remaining population protected and reassured. It is only when things spin out of control that the inherent brutality of the situation becomes clear, but here again the movie poses intractable conundrums rather than scoring easy points. To the soldiers and the survivors alike, there are only bad choices, and doing what seems like the right thing — firebombing an open city or rescuing children from the bombs — can turn out to have horrendous consequences. Mr. Fresnadillo’s first movie, the Spanish-language thriller showed him to be a filmmaker with technical agility and a decidedly philosophical bent. Here the thinking is done on the run, as the collapse of order unfolds through scenes of panic and chaos. These are often too frenetically edited and murkily lighted to be truly scary, and the higher dose of gore — infecteds chopped up by helicopter blades; bodies exploding in blood as bullets fly into them — is not enough to increase the horror. The real terror comes at quieter moments, when aerial shots survey the echoing emptiness of London, or when Tammy and Andy sneak out of the Green Zone into the surrounding desolation. “London’s mine,” Andy exclaims, and the claustrophobic suspense of the film is occasionally leavened by a sense of adventure. The threat of death brings out noble impulses as well as selfish ones. Don’s cowardice stands in contrast to the selflessness of some of the American soldiers: Scarlet (Rose Byrne), a medical officer; Doyle (Jeremy Renner), a sniper whose conscience gets the better of him; and, more reluctantly, Flynn (Harold Perrineau), a chopper pilot with pictures of his kids taped above the windshield. “28 Weeks Later” is not for the faint of heart or the weak of stomach. It is brutal and almost exhaustingly terrifying, as any respectable zombie movie should be. It is also bracingly smart, both in its ideas and in its techniques. The last shot brought a burst of laughter at the screening I attended, a reaction that seemed to me both an acknowledgment of Mr. Fresnadillo’s wit and a defense against his merciless rigor. Anyway, I was glad the person next to me was laughing, rather than chewing through my neck. That level of horror will have to wait for the next sequel. “28 Weeks Later” is rated R (Under 17 requires accompanying parent or adult guardian). Rabid zombies feast on living flesh, which causes their potential victims to utter an occasional obscenity. Directed by Juan Carlos Fresnadillo; written by Rowan Joffe, Mr. Fresnadillo, E. L. Lavigne and Jesus Olmo; director of photography, Enrique Chediak; edited by Chris Gill; music by John Murphy; production designer, Mark Tildesley; produced by Enrique López-Lavigne, Andrew Macdonald and Allon Reich; released by Fox Atomic. Running time: 91 minutes. (Don), Rose Byrne (Scarlet), Jeremy Renner (Doyle), Harold Perrineau (Flynn), (Alice), Mackintosh Muggleton (Andy), Imogen Poots (Tammy), Idris Elba (General Stone) and Emily Beecham (Karen). Next Article in Movies (1 of 66) &#x00bb; Report a Problem Post (4.6 stars, 10 votes) Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. MOVIE SHOWTIMES AND TICKETS The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » Kickin' It Old Skool Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/gst/mostemailed.html	Most E-Mailed New York Times Articles in the Past 24 Hours - The New York Times Friday, May 11, 2007 SIGN IN TO E-MAIL THIS Updated Every Fifteen Minutes Articles most frequently e-mailed by NYTimes.com readers. Sign In to E-MAIL This The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny By JENNIFER 8. LEE Some affluent retirees don&#8217;t mind dropping in by air to baby-sit. Sign In to E-MAIL This Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role By GARDINER HARRIS, BENEDICT CAREY and JANET ROBERTS The intersection of money and medicine has become one of the most contentious issues in psychiatry. Sign In to E-MAIL This The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Gorgeous, name-brand pots, pans and gadgets sure are nice, but are they necessary? No, and here&#8217;s how a good cook can outfit an entire kitchen for under $300. Sign In to E-MAIL This The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? Is it safe to eat a piece of food that fell to the floor but was picked up in less that five seconds? Scientists recently put the five-second rule through some microbiology paces. Sign In to E-MAIL This New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Real estate brokers say radical solutions for housing among newcomers are becoming more common. Sign In to E-MAIL This Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard By PATRICIA LEIGH BROWN California is beginning to address the issue of deaths caused by accidents involving objects on highways. Sign In to E-MAIL This Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing The company that makes the painkiller OxyContin pleaded guilty to criminal charges that the firm had misled doctors and patients. Sign In to E-MAIL This SPORTS / PRO BASKETBALL Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Utah point guard Derek Fisher put his daughter&#8217;s health before the playoffs Wednesday, missing most of the game. He then returned to seal the win for the Jazz. Sign In to E-MAIL This Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Research into the genetics of obesity indicates that each person has a comfortable weight range to which the body gravitates. Sign In to E-MAIL This Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies By A. O. SCOTT &#8220;28 Weeks Later&#8221; is brutal and almost exhaustingly terrifying. It is also bracingly smart, both in its ideas and in its techniques. Sign In to E-MAIL This INTERNATIONAL / ASIA PACIFIC Pressed by Police, Even Innocent Confess in Japan Recent criminal cases have shown just how far the Japanese authorities will go in securing confessions. Sign In to E-MAIL This Music: Off the Beaten Beat Away from the bright lights of New York&#8217;s music scene, many artists are finding new performance spaces in strange, intimate locales. Sign In to E-MAIL This Basics: Seizing the Moment There are ways to defeat the shutter lag that can mar action shots. Sign In to E-MAIL This The Real Owner of All Those Planes Steven Udvar-Hazy is a pioneer in airplane leasing, owning more airplanes than any airline in the world. Sign In to E-MAIL This Faster Fashion, Cheaper Chic By RUTH LA FERLA Trends are served fresh daily at Forever 21, the clothing retailer growing like a weed near you. Sign In to E-MAIL This ARTS / ART & DESIGN Harlem&#8217;s Cultural Anchor in a Sea of Ideas By FELICIA R. LEE As the Schomburg Center unveils its $11 million facelift, Harlem itself is also undergoing one of its periodic renaissances. Sign In to E-MAIL This Editorial: Mr. Bush Alone President Bush has yet to acknowledge the reality in Iraq that Congressional Republicans and even administration officials like Defense Secretary Robert Gates now seem to tacitly accept. Sign In to E-MAIL This A new federally backed study shows that juveniles who do time as adults later commit more violent crime than those who are handled through the juvenile courts. Sign In to E-MAIL This Op-Ed Contributor: A Nobel for the Sandman The feats that Sandman performs in comic books and in &#8220;Spider-Man 3&#8221; often correctly display the fascinating properties of granular materials. Sign In to E-MAIL This David Brooks: The Human Community Tony Blair&#8217;s decision to support the invasion of Iraq grew out of the essence of who he is. Sign In to E-MAIL This In the Garden: It Takes a Hammer to Grow This Salad A tiny portable garden is the place to raise greens and herbs. Sign In to E-MAIL This GREAT HOMES / GREAT HOMES A Ski Community Where There&#8217;s No Such Thing as Too Much At the Yellowstone Mountain Club in Big Sky, Mont., every home is within a short schuss of a chair lift and the rich and famous will find every possible amenity. Sign In to E-MAIL This A White Tie Kind of Guy So President Bush, it seems, confounded expectations and managed to keep it together for Queen Elizabeth II&acirc;&#128;&#153;s state visit this week. He didn&acirc;&#128;&#153;t slobber, chug-a-lug from an Evian bottle, spew bits of buttered roll or engage in any impromptu shoulder massages. Bully for him. His only slip-up came when he had a bit of a sequencing problem [...] Sign In to E-MAIL This 36 Hours in St. Petersburg, Russia By CLIFFORD J. LEVY The former Russian capital has recaptured much of its glamour and offers an enchanting landscape not only for lovers of culture but for their children as well. Sign In to E-MAIL This Harvard Task Force Calls for New Focus on Teaching and Not Just Research Nine prominent professors are leading an effort to rethink the culture of undergraduate teaching and learning at Harvard. A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/fashion/10granny.html?ex=1336449600&en=6f9d640b4f754f2c&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny - New York Times The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Photographs by Michael Stravato for The New York times Angela Kim&#146;s baby-sitting routine: On Tuesdays her husband, Augustine, drops her off at a Houston airport. She&#146;s met at the curb in Dallas by her daughter, Andrea, and her son, Noah, 2. Then it&#146;s off to the hospital where Andrea works, where Mrs. Kim takes the wheel. She heads for Noah&#146;s preschool and after that, home for a nap. On Wednesday nights she makes the reverse commute. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 ANGELA KIM spends two days a week baby-sitting for her 2-year-old grandson, Noah, while her daughter, Andrea, a doctor, works nine-hour hospital shifts. Only Mrs. Kim, 57, lives in Houston and her daughter and grandson live in Dallas — 250 miles away. This long-distance child care arrangement means that on Tuesdays Mrs. Kim wakes at 4:45 a.m. to catch a 6:30 a.m. Southwest Airlines flight to Dallas Love Airport, where her daughter and Noah pick her up at the curb. At the hospital, her daughter hops out of the car to make her 8 a.m. shift and Mrs. Kim slips into the driver’s seat. Then she and Noah drive to his preschool, and after that, home, where Mrs. Kim fills her grandson’s next two days with brown rice, seaweed and Konglish, a mix of Korean and English. On Wednesday night, Mrs. Kim does the trip in reverse, catching a 7:30 p.m. flight to the Houston airport, where her husband picks her up. Terri P. Tepper of Barrington, Ill., made a similar trek every week for a year to help care for her granddaughter so that her daughter could pursue her career. Beginning in 2001, Ms. Tepper flew to New York on Sundays and returned to Chicago on Thursdays. “It was cheaper than getting a nanny,” said Ms. Tepper, 64. The round-trip tickets, which her daughter paid for, cost between $190 and $230. “I actually saved them a lot of money,” Ms. Tepper said. Her daughter later made partner in her consulting firm. Even at a time when grandparents are more involved than ever in the lives of their children and grandchildren, the efforts of Mrs. Kim and Ms. Tepper are extraordinary. But many grandparents these days are making extreme efforts to help their children bridge the work-life divide. “To me, grandparents are like the family National Guard,” said Andrew J. Cherlin, a sociologist at who studies intergenerational issues. “They are ready to step in when there is a need, and as soon as that need is met, they are ready to leave active duty.” “In low-income families,” he continued, “it may be the grandmother down the street who helps out. In high-income families, it is the grandmother in a neighboring city who helps out.” Intercity commuting is just one way they provide that help. Grandparents are also taking time off from work, retiring early, moving to the United States from overseas or selling their home to be near grandchildren. The greater involvement results from a confluence of factors, including the financial burdens of child care and anxiety over the quality of care. But most notably it is influenced by a generation of grandparents who have the time and the financial wherewithal to pitch in. “This is the first generation where we have so many older people living long enough, being healthy enough and being affluent enough to provide these services on a large scale” since women entered the workplace in large numbers, Dr. Cherlin said. But the involvement cuts across the economic spectrum. According to the census, 19.4 percent of preschool children with working mothers were primarily entrusted to grandparents in 2002, the latest year for which there are statistics. Grandparents took charge more often than fathers (18.2 percent), day care (19 percent) or hired help (9 percent). In 1995, grandparents ranked third behind fathers and day care centers, at 15.9 percent. There are no figures on how many grandparents go to extremes, because they can afford to, to care for their children’s children. “We call them grandboomers,” said Amy Goyer, national coordinator for the Foundation Grandparent Information Center, which has noticed heightened interest in information and services for grandparents. “They have more disposable income. They may have planned better for retirement.” For example, Judy Chen of Seattle could afford to take a year off as a hospital researcher to move to the Bay Area to baby-sit to help her daughter, a corporate lawyer. Her career was better able to absorb the timeout, she said: She was close to retirement, but her daughter was on a fairly strict career track in her firm. “Compared with her job, I have to sacrifice a little bit,” Mrs. Chen said. Besides, she said, echoing a sentiment expressed in similar terms by other Asian and Latino grandparents interviewed, “I am a Chinese mother.” Stepping in — even moving in — is customary in cultures that stress intergenerational familial obligations. In Mrs. Chen’s case, her sense of obligation to her daughter trumps that to her husband, who was left home alone for a year. “He is lonely, but he has a job,” Mrs. Chen said. Mrs. Chen’s daughter and son-in-law were reluctant to hire a nanny, feeling uncomfortable with strangers raising their son. They said they also worry about day care, expressing a widely shared parental anxiety that was only heightened by a National Institutes of Health study published this year that found some evidence of increased behavior problems among sixth graders the more time they had spent in professional day care. Were it not for the help of her mother and mother-in-law, Andrea Kim said, she would have quit her residency rather than put Noah in day care two years ago. “I couldn’t bring myself to do it,” said Andrea Kim, who had already invested nine years in college, medical school and a residency at that point. “I had a lot of guilt.” And so she proposed the flying granny nanny scenario to her mother. “It was a joke when I first mentioned it, then it turned into a plea,” Andrea Kim said. Some weeks, her mother or her father, Augustine, 61, fly to Dallas, scoop Noah up at the airport curbside pickup and take him to Houston on the next flight. “It’s crazy, isn’t it?” said Mrs. Kim, the grandmother. “Somehow it works out.” Next Article in Fashion & Style (3 of 12) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Get Back to Work SHORTCUTS; Too Busy to Notice You're Too Busy Study Finds Rise in Behavior Problems After Significant Time in Day Care Teaching Movie Moguls to Wipe Drool Families and Family Life Next Article in Fashion & Style (3 of 12) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/08/health/08fat.html	Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside - New York Times Mental Health & Behavior Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 8, 2007 It was 1959. Jules Hirsch, a research physician at , had gotten curious about weight loss in the obese. He was about to start a simple experiment that would change forever the way scientists think about fat. Skip to next paragraph Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times Jules Hirsch, a research physician at Rockefeller University, conducted a simple but groundbreaking experiment on obesity nearly 50 years ago, changing the way scientists think about fat. Gina Kolata answered readers' questions about this article. Obese people, he knew, had huge fat cells, stuffed with glistening yellow fat. What happened to those cells when people lost weight, he wondered. Did they shrink or did they go away? He decided to find out. It seemed straightforward. Dr. Hirsch found eight people who had been fat since childhood or adolescence and who agreed to live at the Rockefeller University Hospital for eight months while scientists would control their diets, make them lose weight and then examine their fat cells. The study was rigorous and demanding. It began with an agonizing four weeks of a maintenance that assessed the subjects’ metabolism and caloric needs. Then the diet began. The only food permitted was a liquid formula providing 600 calories a day, a regimen that guaranteed they would lose weight. Finally, the subjects spent another four weeks on a diet that maintained them at their new weights, 100 pounds lower than their initial weights, on average. Dr. Hirsch answered his original question — the subjects’ fat cells had shrunk and were now normal in size. And everyone, including Dr. Hirsch, assumed that the subjects would leave the hospital permanently thinner. That did not happen. Instead, Dr. Hirsch says, “they all regained.” He was horrified. The study subjects certainly wanted to be thin, so what went wrong? Maybe, he thought, they had some deep-seated psychological need to be fat. So Dr. Hirsch and his colleagues, including Dr. Rudolph L. Leibel, who is now at , repeated the experiment and repeated it again. Every time the result was the same. The weight, so painstakingly lost, came right back. But since this was a research study, the investigators were also measuring metabolic changes, psychiatric conditions, body temperature and pulse. And that led them to a surprising conclusion: fat people who lost large amounts of weight might look like someone who was never fat, but they were very different. In fact, by every metabolic measurement, they seemed like people who were starving. Before the diet began, the fat subjects’ metabolism was normal — the number of calories burned per square meter of body surface was no different from that of people who had never been fat. But when they lost weight, they were burning as much as 24 percent fewer calories per square meter of their surface area than the calories consumed by those who were naturally thin. The Rockefeller subjects also had a psychiatric syndrome, called semi-starvation neurosis, which had been noticed before in people of normal weight who had been starved. They dreamed of food, they fantasized about food or about breaking their diet. They were anxious and depressed; some had thoughts of . They secreted food in their rooms. And they binged. The Rockefeller researchers explained their observations in one of their papers: “It is entirely possible that weight reduction, instead of resulting in a normal state for obese patients, results in an abnormal state resembling that of starved nonobese individuals.” Eventually, more than 50 people lived at the hospital and lost weight, and every one had physical and psychological signs of starvation. There were a very few who did not get fat again, but they made staying thin their life’s work, becoming Weight Watchers lecturers, for example, and, always, counting calories and maintaining themselves in a permanent state of starvation. “Did those who stayed thin simply have more willpower?” Dr. Hirsch asked. “In a funny way, they did.” One way to interpret Dr. Hirsch and Dr. Leibel’s studies would be to propose that once a person got fat, the body would adjust, making it hopeless to lose weight and keep it off. The issue was important, because if getting fat was the problem, there might be a solution to the epidemic: convince people that any weight gain was a step toward an irreversible condition that they most definitely did not want to have. But another group of studies showed that that hypothesis, too, was wrong. It began with studies that were the inspiration of Dr. Ethan Sims at the , who asked what would happen if thin people who had never had a weight problem deliberately got fat. His subjects were prisoners at a nearby state prison who volunteered to gain weight. With great difficulty, they succeeded, increasing their weight by 20 percent to 25 percent. But it took them four to six months, eating as much as they could every day. Some consumed 10,000 calories a day, an amount so incredible that it would be hard to believe, were it not for the fact that there were attendants present at each meal who dutifully recorded everything the men ate. Once the men were fat, their metabolisms increased by 50 percent. They needed more than 2,700 calories per square meter of their body surface to stay fat but needed just 1,800 calories per square meter to maintain their normal weight. When the study ended, the prisoners had no trouble losing weight. Within months, they were back to normal and effortlessly stayed there. This is an excerpt from Gina Kolata’s new book, “Rethinking Thin: The New Science of Weight Loss — and the Myths and Realities of Dieting” (Farrar, Straus & Giroux). Next Article in Health (7 of 15) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. PERSONAL HEALTH; Weight-Loss Drugs: Hoopla and Hype F.D.A. Approves an Over-the-Counter Version of the Weight-Loss Drug Xenical As Obesity Fight Hits Cafeteria, Many Fear a Note From School Next Article in Health (7 of 15) &#x00bb; Everything you need to know about heart disease Hip resurfacing: is it right for you? The changing attitudes towards "chemo brain" Treating the awkward years Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/08/health/08fat.html?ex=1336276800&en=111c461ec64ee6f6&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside - New York Times Mental Health & Behavior Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 8, 2007 It was 1959. Jules Hirsch, a research physician at , had gotten curious about weight loss in the obese. He was about to start a simple experiment that would change forever the way scientists think about fat. Skip to next paragraph Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times Jules Hirsch, a research physician at Rockefeller University, conducted a simple but groundbreaking experiment on obesity nearly 50 years ago, changing the way scientists think about fat. Gina Kolata answered readers' questions about this article. Obese people, he knew, had huge fat cells, stuffed with glistening yellow fat. What happened to those cells when people lost weight, he wondered. Did they shrink or did they go away? He decided to find out. It seemed straightforward. Dr. Hirsch found eight people who had been fat since childhood or adolescence and who agreed to live at the Rockefeller University Hospital for eight months while scientists would control their diets, make them lose weight and then examine their fat cells. The study was rigorous and demanding. It began with an agonizing four weeks of a maintenance that assessed the subjects’ metabolism and caloric needs. Then the diet began. The only food permitted was a liquid formula providing 600 calories a day, a regimen that guaranteed they would lose weight. Finally, the subjects spent another four weeks on a diet that maintained them at their new weights, 100 pounds lower than their initial weights, on average. Dr. Hirsch answered his original question — the subjects’ fat cells had shrunk and were now normal in size. And everyone, including Dr. Hirsch, assumed that the subjects would leave the hospital permanently thinner. That did not happen. Instead, Dr. Hirsch says, “they all regained.” He was horrified. The study subjects certainly wanted to be thin, so what went wrong? Maybe, he thought, they had some deep-seated psychological need to be fat. So Dr. Hirsch and his colleagues, including Dr. Rudolph L. Leibel, who is now at , repeated the experiment and repeated it again. Every time the result was the same. The weight, so painstakingly lost, came right back. But since this was a research study, the investigators were also measuring metabolic changes, psychiatric conditions, body temperature and pulse. And that led them to a surprising conclusion: fat people who lost large amounts of weight might look like someone who was never fat, but they were very different. In fact, by every metabolic measurement, they seemed like people who were starving. Before the diet began, the fat subjects’ metabolism was normal — the number of calories burned per square meter of body surface was no different from that of people who had never been fat. But when they lost weight, they were burning as much as 24 percent fewer calories per square meter of their surface area than the calories consumed by those who were naturally thin. The Rockefeller subjects also had a psychiatric syndrome, called semi-starvation neurosis, which had been noticed before in people of normal weight who had been starved. They dreamed of food, they fantasized about food or about breaking their diet. They were anxious and depressed; some had thoughts of . They secreted food in their rooms. And they binged. The Rockefeller researchers explained their observations in one of their papers: “It is entirely possible that weight reduction, instead of resulting in a normal state for obese patients, results in an abnormal state resembling that of starved nonobese individuals.” Eventually, more than 50 people lived at the hospital and lost weight, and every one had physical and psychological signs of starvation. There were a very few who did not get fat again, but they made staying thin their life’s work, becoming Weight Watchers lecturers, for example, and, always, counting calories and maintaining themselves in a permanent state of starvation. “Did those who stayed thin simply have more willpower?” Dr. Hirsch asked. “In a funny way, they did.” One way to interpret Dr. Hirsch and Dr. Leibel’s studies would be to propose that once a person got fat, the body would adjust, making it hopeless to lose weight and keep it off. The issue was important, because if getting fat was the problem, there might be a solution to the epidemic: convince people that any weight gain was a step toward an irreversible condition that they most definitely did not want to have. But another group of studies showed that that hypothesis, too, was wrong. It began with studies that were the inspiration of Dr. Ethan Sims at the , who asked what would happen if thin people who had never had a weight problem deliberately got fat. His subjects were prisoners at a nearby state prison who volunteered to gain weight. With great difficulty, they succeeded, increasing their weight by 20 percent to 25 percent. But it took them four to six months, eating as much as they could every day. Some consumed 10,000 calories a day, an amount so incredible that it would be hard to believe, were it not for the fact that there were attendants present at each meal who dutifully recorded everything the men ate. Once the men were fat, their metabolisms increased by 50 percent. They needed more than 2,700 calories per square meter of their body surface to stay fat but needed just 1,800 calories per square meter to maintain their normal weight. When the study ended, the prisoners had no trouble losing weight. Within months, they were back to normal and effortlessly stayed there. This is an excerpt from Gina Kolata’s new book, “Rethinking Thin: The New Science of Weight Loss — and the Myths and Realities of Dieting” (Farrar, Straus & Giroux). Next Article in Health (7 of 15) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. PERSONAL HEALTH; Weight-Loss Drugs: Hoopla and Hype F.D.A. Approves an Over-the-Counter Version of the Weight-Loss Drug Xenical As Obesity Fight Hits Cafeteria, Many Fear a Note From School Next Article in Health (7 of 15) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » Everything you need to know about heart disease Hip resurfacing: is it right for you? The changing attitudes towards "chemo brain" Treating the awkward years Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
