http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/world/south_asia/6643953.stm	BBC NEWS | World | South Asia | Uttar Pradesh low caste landslide Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 17:13 GMT 18:13 UK E-mail this to a friend Uttar Pradesh low caste landslide BSP supporters see their party set for government India's low-caste Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) has swept to a historic victory in assembly elections in the key northern state of Uttar Pradesh. With all but a handful of results declared, the BSP had won 202 of the 403 seats to allow it to form its own government, Indian media reports said. It is the first time since 1991 that any party in the state has done so. Uttar Pradesh is India's most populous state and has long been its most politically influential. I thank people of all castes and communities who supported my party Blow to economic reform? The BBC's Sanjoy Majumder in Delhi says the result represents a major setback for India's mainstream political parties who faired poorly in polls which observers believe could help determine India's political future. He says many believe it is significant that BSP leader Ms Mayawati - a fiery politician from the poor, deprived Dalit (formerly untouchable) caste - has managed to spread her political appeal and that it may not be long before India votes in a lower caste prime minister. Jubilant, flag-waving BSP supporters gathered on Friday outside Ms Mayawati's residence in Lucknow, the capital of Uttar Pradesh. Mayawati is a Dalit, at the bottom of the caste system Dancing party supporters set off fire crackers and celebrated with sweets. Ms Mayawati now begins her fourth term in office, but hers will not this time be a coalition government. "I thank people of all castes and communities who supported my party to achieve this overwhelming victory," she told a news conference. Outgoing chief minister Mulayam Singh Yadav had earlier admitted defeat and resigned. His Samajwadi Party came a poor second, far behind the BSP. India's two main political parties - the governing Congress and the main opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) - also did very badly. Both have been on the decline in Uttar Pradesh in recent years. The poor Congress showing came despite a high-profile campaign by Rahul Gandhi - the fourth generation of the famous dynasty. Former Chief Minister Mulayam Singh Yadav has admitted defeat Ms Mayawati's support base is mostly with the lower caste and poor communities who form a significant percentage of the Uttar Pradesh electorate. The elections were held in seven phases over a month for logistical reasons. None of the phases had a turnout higher than 50%. The vote will also be remembered for having seen no significant violence, unlike in the past. Caste and religion have been dominant factors in politics over the past two decades in Uttar Pradesh, one of India's poorest states. Uttar Pradesh is also plagued by corruption, and lags behind other parts of India in areas like development and health. Because of its sheer size and numbers, Uttar Pradesh, commonly called UP, holds an important place in the Indian political system. More than 49 million people were eligible to vote at nearly 50,000 polling stations in Uttar Pradesh, watched over by thousands of police and paramilitary troops. The state has more than 175 million inhabitants. It sends 80 MPs - the highest number in India - to the federal parliament, more than any other state. It has produced most of India's prime ministers, including the Nehru-Gandhi dynasty. E-mail this to a friend 11 May 07 | South Asia India's reform programme suffers a blow 11 May 07 | South Asia Politics and the barrel of the gun 07 May 07 | South Asia Summer of discontent in Uttar Pradesh 17 Apr 07 | South Asia BJP protests in campaign CD row 09 Apr 07 | South Asia Muslim minority ruling suspended 06 Apr 07 | South Asia Hoping against hope in Uttar Pradesh 06 Apr 07 | South Asia India politician's wealth probed 01 Mar 07 | South Asia Election Commission of India The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites TOP SOUTH ASIA STORIES Uttar Pradesh low caste landslide US admits Afghan civilians killed Karachi braced for judge protests MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/world/asia-pacific/6641329.stm	BBC NEWS | World | Asia-Pacific | Ramos-Horta 'wins E Timor poll' Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 12:22 GMT 13:22 UK E-mail this to a friend Ramos-Horta 'wins E Timor poll' Mr Ramos-Horta (r) is an ally of the outgoing president (l) Nobel prize winner Jose Ramos-Horta is on course to be East Timor's next president, bringing congratulations from Australia and New Zealand. Election officials said Mr Ramos-Horta had won nearly 70% of the vote, but the official result has yet to be declared. His rival, Francisco "Lu Olo" Guterres, has conceded defeat. Although Mr Ramos-Horta has not yet formally declared victory, he has already made a speech vowing to heal the wounds of the troubled nation. Australian Prime Minister John Howard was among the first to offer his congratulations to Mr Ramos-Horta, whom he called "a person of great dedication and... a good friend of Australia". New Zealand's Foreign Minister Winston Peters said he hoped to work with Mr Ramos-Horta "in the difficult task of strengthening [East Timor's] young and fragile democracy". Mr Ramos-Horta, the current prime minister, is widely seen as more friendly with the West than Mr Guterres, of the ruling Fretilin party, who often takes a more leftist, nationalist line. The election commission said on Friday that, with all the ballots counted, Mr Ramos-Horta had taken 69% of the vote and Mr Guterres 31%. Founder of East Timor's independence movement Spent 24 years in exile after Indonesia invaded Won Nobel Peace Prize in 1996 Former journalist, fluent in five languages The final result is expected to be officially released later after it has been given court approval, a commission spokeswoman said. Mr Ramos-Horta said the result was not a cause of celebration, but the start of five years of hard work ahead. "I will honour what I told the people in the campaign: I will work for the poor, with the entire country, to unite it, and heal its wounds," he said. Mr Guterres conceded defeat, telling reporters he would "bow to the will of the people" and "do everything possible to support Ramos-Horta". The result is a blow to the left-wing Fretilin party, which has been a major force in East Timor politics. Fretilin appears to have fallen out of favour with voters since last year's violence between rival security forces, which resulted in street battles that left more than 30 dead and tens of thousands homeless. The party will have a fight on its hands to stay in government in next month's parliamentary elections, a correspondent in Jakarta says. The outgoing president Xanana Gusmao - an ally of Mr Ramos-Horta who has led the nation since it won independence five years ago, after breaking free from decades of Indonesian rule in 1999 - plans to run for the more powerful position of prime minister in the election. Observers hailed Wednesday's run-off as peaceful and free of intimidation - in contrast to the first round, which was marred by irregularities and fighting between rival supporters. This has raised hopes that the vote may prove to be a turning point for the impoverished and violence-wracked nation. E-mail this to a friend VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS Jose Ramos-Horta on healing rifts in East Timor Vote for new president Tears of East Timor's youth Optimism as East Timor votes Embattled E Timor PM resigns No happy ending forecast Emergency rule for E Timor East Timorese speak of the challenges facing their troubled young nation Refugees tell of torment Rocky path to nationhood The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Koreas agree cross-border train 'New proof' of Japan sex slaves Ramos-Horta 'wins E Timor poll' MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/business/6646865.stm	BBC NEWS | Business | Spanish law targets house prices Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 13:14 GMT 14:14 UK E-mail this to a friend Spanish law targets house prices Spanish real estate prices have risen more than 150% in 10 years The Spanish Parliament has passed a law aimed at controlling property speculators whom the government blames for spiralling house prices. Official documents will list everybody who has owned any piece of land in the five years before its development. Senior local government officials will also have to declare their assets. A number of local officials have been arrested recently on allegations of fraud, money laundering and corruption linked to housing projects. In one of the biggest cases, nearly 60 people were arrested in the southern resort of Marbella, including a former mayor, several councillors, developers, art dealers and even a well-known singer. The government hopes that reducing the number of speculators and the degree of corruption will bring down prices. "With the instruments of this law we should put the brakes on exorbitant house prices," said Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero. The new law also reserves 30% of future property development for social housing and allows for planning decisions taken over the past two years to be reviewed under certain circumstances. It will come into force on 1 July, a few days after municipal and regional elections are held in Spain. E-mail this to a friend Spanish homeowners face tricky times 27 Apr 07 | Business Spain hit by property crash fears 25 Apr 07 | Business Ex-pat retirees told 'think ahead' 11 Dec 06 | UK Sunset for Spanish property dreams 08 Aug 05 | Real Story Brits abroad 'shun local culture' 26 Jun 05 | UK Inflation 'pushing up pay deals' People 'pay less into pensions' Postal workers to vote on strikes MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/world/middle_east/6645777.stm	BBC NEWS | World | Middle East | New Jerusalem settlement planned Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 09:25 GMT 10:25 UK E-mail this to a friend New Jerusalem settlement planned Settlements cut off East Jerusalem from the occupied West Bank The Israeli authorities are planning to build three new Jewish neighbourhoods in East Jerusalem, an area regarded as occupied land under international law. The plan, which has yet to receive final approval, would involve building about 20,000 homes. The Palestinian chief negotiator, Saeb Erekat, said the plan destroyed efforts to re-start the peace process. He said Israel had to choose between settlements or peace, but could not have both. Yehoshua Pollak, Jerusalem's deputy mayor, said the intention was to create a contiguous Jewish residential area linking East Jerusalem with major West Bank settlement blocs. Israel has occupied East Jerusalem since 1967. It annexed the area in 1981 and sees it as its exclusive domain. This has not been recognised by the international community. Palestinians hope to establish the capital of their future state in the East Jerusalem. E-mail this to a friend Rival groups join forces in Gaza BBC's Johnston wins press award Hamas told to axe children's show MPs back beleaguered Israeli PM Israelis across the political spectrum unite at an anti-Olmert rally in Tel Aviv Wave of discontent in Israel Gulf in Mid-East narratives Timeline: Alan Johnston missing Israeli views on Halutz TOP MIDDLE EAST STORIES Clashes follow new Gaza operation Iraq leader says troops must stay New Jerusalem settlement planned MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/programmes/from_our_own_correspondent/6639385.stm	BBC NEWS | Programmes | From Our Own Correspondent | A letter from Iraq to Tony Blair Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Thursday, 10 May 2007, 13:59 GMT 14:59 UK E-mail this to a friend A letter from Iraq to Tony Blair One issue threatens to overshadow Tony Blair's legacy, affecting his image and standing at home and abroad, the decision to go to war in Iraq. Even at the time of Saddam's fall, people were wary of the future I have never written to a politician in my life. But I very nearly made an exception for Tony Blair. It was towards the end of 2002, when it was already clear that the invasion of Iraq was only a matter of time. I found myself deeply torn. I had no illusions about the nature of Saddam Hussein. I had followed his brutal antics for years. I had been to his Iraq, and felt the all-pervasive fear instilled by his vigilant and ruthless police state. What a relief it was to get on the plane and feel that oppressive weight lifted off your shoulders, an experience that most Iraqis were denied. But when Saddam's excesses were at their worst, during the war with Iran in the 1980s, he was actually being discreetly supported by the Americans. Washington was turning a blind eye to human rights reports from its own State Department detailing how Iraqi children were being tortured in front of their parents to get them to confess or inform. In 1988, when the Iraqi air force dropped chemical bombs which killed thousands of Kurds at Halabja, I remember phoning the Pentagon, and being told: "We think it was the Iranians who did it." So on a personal level, I would be glad to see the end of Saddam Hussein and his harsh dictatorship. It was clear, long before it happened, that this was going to be a terrible mess. It had to be But the impending invasion was clearly not about to happen because he was a bad man. It might be the right thing, but it was being done for the wrong reasons - reasons that had more to do with the global ambitions of the ascendant neo-conservatives in Washington, and their desire to engineer a New Order in the Middle East. The chosen pretexts for the war - Saddam's alleged weapons of mass destruction and links with international terror - turned out to be simply invalid. I have often thought, over these past four years, of that regular cartoon slot in the satirical magazine Private Eye, entitled "Things We Seldom See". It features situations which would be blindingly logical, but just never happen. I wanted to propose one where President Bush addresses Saddam Hussein and says: "Mr Hussein, you were right. There were no weapons of mass destruction, and no links with terrorism. We'd like to apologise, and give you your country back." Apart from misgivings about Washington's real motives and objectives, it was clear, long before it happened, that this was going to be a terrible mess. It had to be. Iraq is a patchwork country, an ethnic and confessional cocktail, of Arabs and Kurds, Turkomans and Chaldaeans, Sunnis and Shiites. Iraq has been plagued with civil unrest and violence Such countries are usually held together by a strong centralised dictatorship, which could be benign or tyrannical. As soon as you admit the concept of democracy and take the lid off, it is bound to be difficult and chaotic in the best of conditions, in a place with no democratic traditions or culture. To blow the regime and all its control mechanisms away virtually overnight, through the massive use of force by people from halfway around the world, would inevitably plunge the country and the region into a long period of chaos, whatever exact form it would take. That is why I lay sleepless in my bed in Tehran, mentally composing that letter to Tony Blair that I never wrote. I was going to tell him, on the basis of three decades living and working in the region, that he was on the brink of a massive historical blunder. I never sent it, because I knew of course that it would not make a blind bit of difference, apart from perhaps salving my own conscience, and allowing me to say: "I told you so" - something that would bring no satisfaction at all. And so, four years on, look at what a terrible mess Mr Blair can now say goodbye to, and hand on to Gordon Brown. Where there used to be tight state control, there is massive terrorism on a daily basis. The Americans have been bombing Baghdad again, to quell Sunni militants and Shiite militias. At the end of the day, the British are minor players, politically important partners brought in on the coat-tails of the Americans They are building walls to separate districts, euphemistically calling them "gated communities". Millions of Iraqis have fled the country. In the south, British troops are trying to stifle Shiite militias which know they only have to wait, because the British will be gone before long. A transition of leadership in London is not going to make much difference on the ground in Iraq. Gordon Brown will be locked into a situation which he might or might not have chosen to get into in the first place, but will now be stuck with, and his options will be limited. At the end of the day, the British are minor players, politically important partners brought in on the coat-tails of the Americans. It is the outcome of their last-ditch struggle to control Baghdad and central Iraq that is crucial to the country's future. If it does not work, the coalition troops may start pulling out and we may find that Iraq's long nightmare has only just begun. From Our Own Correspondent was broadcast on Thursday, 10 May, 2007 at 1100 GMT on BBC Radio 4. Please check the for World Service transmission times. E-mail this to a friend Personal reflections by BBC correspondents around the world SEARCH FROM OUR OWN CORRESPONDENT: Three Ways to Listen From Our Own Correspondent THE STRUGGLE FOR IRAQ US House passes Iraq funding bill Cheney addresses troops in Iraq US Marine 'shot unarmed Iraqis' Bush 'would veto new Iraq bill' Car bomb explodes in Iraqi city The Iraq summit was a limited success for US contacts with Iran and Syria Despair as Baghdad plan falters Massacre fuels northern tensions Baghdad: Mapping the violence Iraq violence in figures Baker's sweet smell of success Your views: Iraq four years on TV reports on Iraq MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/uk/6646537.stm	BBC NEWS | UK | 11 Menezes police face no action Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 13:57 GMT 14:57 UK E-mail this to a friend 11 Menezes police face no action Mr Menezes was mistaken for a suicide bomber Eleven officers involved in the shooting of Brazilian Jean Charles de Menezes will not face disciplinary action, the police watchdog has said. They were among 15 Metropolitan Police officers interviewed by the Independent Police Complaints Commission (IPCC). Decisions have not been made on the four most senior officers investigated. The family of Mr Menezes - shot eight times at Stockwell Tube station after being mistaken for a suicide bomber - said the decision was "disgraceful". The 27-year-old was killed on 22 July 2005, one day after the failed London bombings. The IPCC said a surveillance officer, one of the 11 not facing disciplinary action, would be given "management advice" in relation to action he took after the shooting. It is a travesty of justice and another slap in the face for our family Patricia da Silva Armani, Mr Menezes' cousin It said a decision on whether the four commanders and tactical advisers investigated should be disciplined would be made after the end of court proceedings. The Crown Prosecution Service previously found no evidence to warrant the prosecution of any individual over the shooting of Mr Menezes, an electrician. However, Scotland Yard is facing prosecution under health and safety laws over the incident. The trial is due to start in October. Patricia da Silva Armani, Mr Menezes' cousin, said: "It is a travesty of justice and another slap in the face for our family. "The police officers' lives go on as normal while we exist in turmoil, fighting to get the answers and justice we deserve." The Justice4Jean Campaign questioned the decision to clear the officers before the health and safety case is brought. "This is entirely premature and, worse still, may potentially prejudice any future criminal proceedings," a spokesman said. The grief and anger of his family is entirely understandable and - as I have been powerfully reminded - remains unassuaged IPCC chairman Nick Hardwick "This sends out the signal that no action against officers will ever be taken in this case, which is devastating for the family." The Menezes family said they believed there were grounds for gross negligence manslaughter criminal charges against the four senior officers. A spokeswoman, speaking on their behalf, said: "We hope ultimately that all the officers about whom evidence emerges of wrongdoing that led to this wrongful death are ultimately rendered fully accountable," the spokeswoman added. The IPCC's chairman, Nick Hardwick, said he understood the feelings of Mr Menezes' family. "The grief and anger of his family is entirely understandable and - as I have been powerfully reminded - remains unassuaged," he said. "I would not do anything lightly that adds to that grief or anger." But he said although Mr Menezes was "entirely innocent" there was "no realistic prospect" of disciplinary charges being upheld against the firearms or surveillance officers involved, including the two officers directly responsible for the fatal shooting . They were facing the "challenge" of the wake of the 7/7 London bombings, he added. The human rights group, Liberty, condemned the delay in deciding whether the more senior officers should be punished. The Metropolitan Police welcomed the IPCC recommendation but said the shooting of Mr Menezes was "a matter of very deep regret" to the service and said its thoughts were "with his family". A spokesman added: "There is no doubt that the events of July 2005 brought significant challenges to the Met and during this time many officers operated under difficult and dangerous conditions to protect London and Londoners." E-mail this to a friend VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS The Menezes' family solicitor on their "shock" Get the latest breaking news delivered to your desktop or mobile device Met not guilty plea over Menezes Menezes inquest will be delayed Police delay plea in Menezes case Vigil to mark anniversary No charges for Menezes officers Clickable guide to the shooting Mr Menezes' relatives protest at decision against charges Anger in Brazilian hometown Profile: Jean Charles de Menezes Young Brazilians fleeing poverty Profile: Sir Ian Blair Menezes decision: Your reaction Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Madeleine parents 'won't give up' 11 Menezes police face no action MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/south_asia/6647517.stm	BBC NEWS | World | South Asia | Kidnapped French aid worker freed Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 16:10 GMT 17:10 UK E-mail this to a friend Kidnapped French aid worker freed The two French hostages have now been released A French aid worker kidnapped by the Taleban in Afghanistan on 3 April has been released in Kandahar province, a Taleban spokesman has told the BBC. The Red Cross has confirmed the news, saying Eric Damfreville was handed over to them on Friday evening. There is no news on the fate of three Afghans also abducted by the Taleban in south-west Afghanistan. A French woman, Celine Cordelier, who was kidnapped at the same time, was released on 28 April. The aid workers were employed by the French group Terre d'enfance (A World for our Children). Taleban spokesman Qari Mohammad Yousuf told the BBC Pashto service that the French man was freed in the Maiwand district of Kandahar, the same area where Ms Cordelier was freed. Mr Yousuf said the Taleban had freed Mr Damfreville because French President-elect Nicolas Sarkozy intended to withdraw French troops from Afghanistan. Mr Sarkozy indicated in April he was not committed to keeping French troops in Afghanistan. "It was certainly useful that we sent (the troops) in the context of the war against terrorism, but the long-term presence of French troops in that part of the world does not seem to me to be decisive," he said, Reuters news agency reports. The group of five were abducted in Nimroz province. E-mail this to a friend VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS Red Cross gives details of Mr Damfreville's release Get the latest breaking news delivered to your desktop or mobile device President Karzai's Afghanistan still faces daunting challenges, writes Lyse Doucet. Herat: A city reborn In pictures: Ordinary lives Pain of suicide women In graphics: Harsh realities Who are the militants? Travelling with the Taleban Views on foreign troops Should Nato boost presence? One Day in Afghanistan The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites TOP SOUTH ASIA STORIES Uttar Pradesh low caste landslide US admits Afghan civilians killed Karachi braced for judge protests MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/world/south_asia/6647517.stm	BBC NEWS | World | South Asia | Kidnapped French aid worker freed Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 16:10 GMT 17:10 UK E-mail this to a friend Kidnapped French aid worker freed The two French hostages have now been released A French aid worker kidnapped by the Taleban in Afghanistan on 3 April has been released in Kandahar province, a Taleban spokesman has told the BBC. The Red Cross has confirmed the news, saying Eric Damfreville was handed over to them on Friday evening. There is no news on the fate of three Afghans also abducted by the Taleban in south-west Afghanistan. A French woman, Celine Cordelier, who was kidnapped at the same time, was released on 28 April. The aid workers were employed by the French group Terre d'enfance (A World for our Children). Taleban spokesman Qari Mohammad Yousuf told the BBC Pashto service that the French man was freed in the Maiwand district of Kandahar, the same area where Ms Cordelier was freed. Mr Yousuf said the Taleban had freed Mr Damfreville because French President-elect Nicolas Sarkozy intended to withdraw French troops from Afghanistan. Mr Sarkozy indicated in April he was not committed to keeping French troops in Afghanistan. "It was certainly useful that we sent (the troops) in the context of the war against terrorism, but the long-term presence of French troops in that part of the world does not seem to me to be decisive," he said, Reuters news agency reports. The group of five were abducted in Nimroz province. E-mail this to a friend VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS Red Cross gives details of Mr Damfreville's release Get the latest breaking news delivered to your desktop or mobile device President Karzai's Afghanistan still faces daunting challenges, writes Lyse Doucet. Herat: A city reborn In pictures: Ordinary lives Pain of suicide women In graphics: Harsh realities Who are the militants? Travelling with the Taleban Views on foreign troops Should Nato boost presence? One Day in Afghanistan The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites TOP SOUTH ASIA STORIES Uttar Pradesh low caste landslide US admits Afghan civilians killed Karachi braced for judge protests MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/americas/6645555.stm	BBC NEWS | World | Americas | Pope names Brazil's first saint Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 17:53 GMT 18:53 UK E-mail this to a friend Pope names Brazil's first saint Believers from across Latin America cheered and waved flags Pope Benedict XVI has canonised Brazil's first native-born saint, Friar Galvao, to the cheers of up to a million faithful gathered in Sao Paulo. The Pope announced the sainthood from a throne flanked by bishops and choirs, and overlooked by a giant wooden cross. The Church has attributed two miracles to Friar Galvao, an 18th Century monk who is still seen as influential. The open-air Mass marks the highlight of the Pope's five-day visit to the world's most populous Catholic nation. Hundreds of thousands of believers from across Latin America cheered and waved flags at Sao Paulo's Campo de Marte airfield. Many had spent the night there. The BBC's Gary Duffy in Sao Paulo says the Catholic Church in Brazil is hoping that the Pope's visit and the canonisation will help reinvigorate the local church, which has lost millions of faithful in recent years to evangelical churches. Brazil's first native-born saint Lived from 1739 to 1822 Credited by church with 5,000 miracle cures Founded monasteries and convents in Brazil Profile: Saint Antonio Galvao Pope visit: Reporter's diary During the Mass, the 80-year-old pontiff encouraged his listeners to follow the example of the new saint by helping the needy "in an age so full of hedonism". He lauded Friar Galvao as a model of rectitude and humility, and went on to criticise the elements of the media that ridiculed the sanctity of marriage and virginity before marriage. After canonising Friar Galvao, the Pope also hugged Sandra Grossi de Almeida and her seven-year-old son, Enzo. She is one of two Brazilian females who the Church says are evidence of divinely inspired miracles that justify Friar Galvao's sainthood. Friar Galvao is remembered for producing Latin prayers written on tiny balls of paper that, when swallowed, had the apparent effect of curing a range of ailments. After taking one of these pills, Ms Almeida, who had a uterine malformation that should have made it impossible for her to carry a child for more than four months, gave birth to Enzo. Friar Galvao is also certified by the Church as healing a four-year-old girl said to have been considered incurable by doctors. I hope Pope Benedict XVI can help to resurrect our Brazilian Catholic identity Philippe Gebara, Rio de Janeiro Send us your comments Following the Mass, the Pope met some 430 Brazilian bishops at a Sao Paulo cathedral. Another highlight of the Pope's trip comes on Sunday, when a crowd of at least 350,000 people is expected to celebrate Mass in Aparecida, where the Pope will also take part in a conference of Latin American bishops. The forum, the first for 15 years, will bring together nearly 200 bishops and cardinals from Latin America and the Caribbean to set out the Church's agenda and future policies in the region. 'Sheep without a shepherd' On Thursday, the Pope received a rapturous reception from an audience of tens of thousands of young people gathered at a Sao Paulo stadium. Brazilians give their views on the Pope's stance on abortion and contraception His address focused on what he called the "snares of evil" - pre-marital sex, drug use, corruption, violence and the temptations of wealth and power. He urged the young to avoid these and asked them to "be promoters of life, from its beginning to its natural end". The Pope sparked controversy as soon as he arrived in Brazil on Wednesday by stressing his strong opposition to abortion, the subject of intense debate in the country, where some Brazilians are pushing for the legalisation of terminations. The World Health Organisation estimates that illegal abortions numbered more than a million in Brazil last year alone. E-mail this to a friend VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS Images from the open-air Mass in Sao Paulo Pope's Brazil tour: Diary Day Three 11 May 07 | Americas In pictures: Pope names Brazil saint 11 May 07 | In Pictures Catholic Church tested in Brazil 09 May 07 | Americas Wartime Pope on path to sainthood 09 May 07 | Europe Call for Brazil abortion debate 09 Apr 07 | Americas Factfile: Roman Catholics around the world 01 Apr 05 | World The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Pope names Brazil's first saint UK police face no action on shooting Virginia Tech students graduating MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/help/rss/4498287.stm	BBC NEWS | Help | RSS | BBC RSS Feed: Standard Licence Terms Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it BBC RSS Feed: Standard Licence Terms By downloading a BBC RSS Feed ( "BBC Feed") from the British Broadcasting Corporation ("BBC") you agree to be bound by the terms set out below (the "Standard Licence Terms"). These Standard Licence Terms may be updated by the BBC from time to time. Please review these Standard Licence Terms each time you download a BBC Feed. Your download and/or use of a BBC Feed indicates your agreement to these Standard Licence Terms. 1.1 Subject to the terms of this Agreement the BBC grants you a non-transferrable, non-sublicensable, royalty free non-exclusive licence to display on your website ("Site") the headlines, active links or other source identifiers and other information or materials that you specifically select to receive from the BBC via the BBC Feed ("BBC Content"). 1.2 All title, ownership rights and intellectual property rights in and to the BBC Feed shall remain the property of the BBC. 1.3 Nothing in these Standard Licence Terms grants you any right to use the BBC trade mark on your Site or elsewhere. 2. Use of BBC Content 2.1 You may not use the Feed or display any BBC Content on any Site that is a web site that is excluded by the BBC (scroll down for the list of Excluded Websites as may be amended by the BBC from time to time). 2.2 YOU MUST ENSURE THAT ALL BBC CONTENT ON YOUR SITE HAS AN ACCREDITATION TO THE BBC IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE BBC ACCREDITATION GUIDELINES FROM TIME TO TIME (SCROLL DOWN FOR THE BBC ACCREDITATION GUIDELINES AS MAY BE AMENDED BY THE BBC FROM TIME TO TIME). 2.3 YOU MAY NOT DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY CHARGE USERS SPECIFICALLY FOR ACCESSING BBC CONTENT OR OTHERWISE COMMERCIALISE SUCH CONTENT, NOR ATTEMPT TO RE-SELL THE BBC CONTENT IN ANY WAY. 2.4 Where possible you must create a functional link back to the BBC News story(ies) summarised by the BBC Content . If you are displaying the BBC Feed where a functional link back to the BBC is not possible, you must display on-screen the URL from which the BBC Content can be obtained (scroll down to the accreditation section below.) You may not directly or indirectly change, edit, add to or produce summaries of the BBC Content or any content on the BBC website nor place any full-story BBC content in an HTML frame-set. 2.5 You may not directly or indirectly suggest any endorsement or approval by the BBC of your Site or any non-BBC entity, product or content or any views expressed within your site or service. 2.6 You acknowledge that the BBC has absolute editorial control over all BBC Content and you accept that the BBC is editorially independent and that the editorial integrity of the BBC Content is the sole responsibility of the BBC. 2.7 Should you receive any enquiries which relate to the BBC or the BBC Content you should promptly refer such enquiries to www.bbc.co.uk/info/contactus. 3. Warranties & Liability 3.1 You warrant to the BBC that: (i) you have fully complied with, and shall continue to comply fully with, all applicable laws and regulations; (ii) the Site shall contain no material which is libellous, defamatory, pornographic, obscene or which brings the BBC into disrepute, or which is in breach of any third party intellectual property rights; and (iii) users of the Site shall be required to comply with terms that are equivalent to the Standard Licence Terms in relation to their use of BBC Content. 3.2 The BBC Feed is made available by the BBC on an "as is" and "as available" basis and the BBC gives no warranty of any kind in relation to the BBC Feed, the BBC Content, or any content on the BBC website. The BBC disclaims all implied warranties, including but not limited to the implied warranties of satisfactory quality, fitness for a particular purpose, non-infringement, compatibility, and accuracy regarding the BBC Content, the BBC Feed and the BBC website and any content thereon. 3.3 TO THE MAXIMUM EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW THE BBC EXCLUDES ALL LIABILITY TO YOU FOR ANY LOSS OR DAMAGE HOWSOEVER ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THIS AGREEMENT, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO ANY LIABILITY ARISING IN RELATION TO THE BBC FEED, THE BBC CONTENT OR ANY CONTENT ON THE BBC WEBSITE, ANY VIRUS OR OTHER CONTAMINATION OR ANY UNAVAILABILITY OF BBC CONTENT. 3.4 Each provision of this Clause 3 operates separately in itself and survives independently of the others. 4.1 You hereby agree to indemnify, hold harmless and defend the BBC in respect of all damages, costs and expenses, including reasonable legal fees and litigation expenses, arising out of or as a result of any breach of the Standard Licence Terms or otherwise in connection with your use of the BBC Feed (including the BBC Content). 5.1 You may terminate this Agreement and the licence granted herein at any time by destroying or removing all copies of the BBC Feed (including the BBC Content) from your Site, all hard drives, networks and other storage media. 5.2 The BBC may restrict, suspend or terminate the BBC Feed, this Agreement, the licence granted herein or your access to the BBC Feed at any time without liability. You agree to destroy all copies of the BBC Feed (including the BBC Content) upon receiving notice of termination from the BBC. 5.3 Clauses 3, 4 and 6 shall survive termination of this Agreement. 6.1 Neither party may assign, charge, sublicense or otherwise deal with its rights or obligations in this Agreement in whole or in part to any third party. 6.2 This Agreement supersedes all prior agreements, arrangements and understandings between the parties concerning its subject matter. Each of the parties acknowledges that it has not relied on any statement made by the other in the course of entering into this Agreement. 6.3 Any failure or delay by either party in exercising its rights under any provisions of this Agreement shall not be construed as a waiver of those rights at any time now or in the future. 6.4 This Agreement shall be governed by, construed and take effect in accordance with English law and the English courts shall have exclusive jurisdiction to settle any claim or dispute which may arise out of or in connection with this Agreement. The BBC's RSS feeds and any BBC content contained in the BBC RSS feeds may only be displayed on websites that do not fall into any one or more of the categories listed below. A site will be deemed to fall within one of the following categories where there is a material and prominent section of the Site that falls within such category. 1. Sites that incite hatred whether based on race, religion, gender, sexuality or otherwise, or promote encourage or facilitate anti-social behaviour 2. Sites that promote, encourage or facilitate violence 3. Sites that promote, encourage or facilitate terrorism or other activities that risk UK national security 4. Sites that discriminate against any specific social group or otherwise exploit vulnerable sections of society 5. Sites that promote, facilitate or encourage illegal activity 6. Sites which are misleading, pornographic, defamatory, or that contain illegal, or otherwise actionable content under UK law 7. Sites which infringe individual privacy (based on the parameters laid down in the "Privacy" chapter of the BBC's Any BBC RSS feed or BBC content on your site must incorporate an attribution (credit) to the BBC in one of the following forms: "From BBC News / BBC Sport / bbc.co.uk" (delete as applicable), or "This content / article is from BBC News / BBC Sport/ the BBC News website / the BBC Sport website / bbc.co.uk" (delete as applicable) If you are displaying a BBC RSS feed in a context where a functional link back to the article on the BBC's website is not possible then you use the following attribution (credit) From bbc.co.uk/news or bbc.co.uk/sport (delete as applicable) If used as part of the BBC BackStage project, then the following wording needs to be added: You may not use any BBC logo or other BBC trade mark without signing a BBC trade mark licence agreement. MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/world/default.stm	BBC NEWS | World Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Radio 4's Midnight News Friday, 11 May 2007, 23:02 GMT 00:02 UK Pope names Brazil's first saint Pope Benedict XVI canonises Brazil's first saint before a crowd of a million people in the city of Sao Paulo. Reporter's diary: Day three UN to decide on Zimbabwe key role Zimbabwe is expected to be chosen to head a key UN body, as its ambassador rejects Western objections. Polish court strikes down spy law Poland's highest court rules that parts of a controversial vetting law violate the country's constitution. 'Hostages' held at Russia mission Iraq leader says troops must stay Serbian parties in coalition deal Taleban free French aid worker Virginia Tech students graduating Last goodbye for Blair and Chirac ALSO IN THE NEWS Paris Hilton jail sentence could be halved, LA officials say The confused penguin who strayed 5,000km from home Tennis: Nadal powers into semi F1: Alonso bounces back Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Hard bargaining as Democrats and White House seek Iraq deal Cold War workers challenge Denmark over B52 crash VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS Thousands flee California wildfires Brazil's first saint honoured Taleban free French aid man More Video / Audio News WORLD SERVICE RADIO PROGRAMMES MOST POPULAR VIDEO AND AUDIO Did You See? The week's highlights Boy hatches supermarket egg Brazil's first saint honoured Battle on Haifa Street Computer security threat guide AROUND THE WORLD NOW Guinea soldiers suspend protest Africa air staff 'being poached' UK police face no action on shooting US general warns against torture Koreas agree cross-border train 'New proof' of Japan sex slaves Galileo firms miss key deadline Scholar defends Pope Pius' record Clashes follow new Gaza operation New Jerusalem settlement planned Uttar Pradesh low caste landslide US admits Afghan civilians killed MORE FROM BBC NEWS FROM OUR OWN CORRESPONDENT A letter from Iraq to Tony Blair Blair passes on his African vision Making a public splash in Saudi As a French person, I'm surprised the UK's leader can be swapped so easily without the British people majority's agreement 'New leads' in Madeleine search Hilton backs online pardon appeal Police 'unsure' Madeleine alive Mother in plea over missing girl Sarkozy takes French presidency The potential winners and losers at the Eurovision final Send us your questions for the Libyan leader Missing for 61 days Two ways you can show support for BBC's Alan Johnston ELSEWHERE ON THE BBC Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/asia-pacific/6641329.stm	BBC NEWS | World | Asia-Pacific | Ramos-Horta 'wins E Timor poll' Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 12:22 GMT 13:22 UK E-mail this to a friend Ramos-Horta 'wins E Timor poll' Mr Ramos-Horta (r) is an ally of the outgoing president (l) Nobel prize winner Jose Ramos-Horta is on course to be East Timor's next president, bringing congratulations from Australia and New Zealand. Election officials said Mr Ramos-Horta had won nearly 70% of the vote, but the official result has yet to be declared. His rival, Francisco "Lu Olo" Guterres, has conceded defeat. Although Mr Ramos-Horta has not yet formally declared victory, he has already made a speech vowing to heal the wounds of the troubled nation. Australian Prime Minister John Howard was among the first to offer his congratulations to Mr Ramos-Horta, whom he called "a person of great dedication and... a good friend of Australia". New Zealand's Foreign Minister Winston Peters said he hoped to work with Mr Ramos-Horta "in the difficult task of strengthening [East Timor's] young and fragile democracy". Mr Ramos-Horta, the current prime minister, is widely seen as more friendly with the West than Mr Guterres, of the ruling Fretilin party, who often takes a more leftist, nationalist line. The election commission said on Friday that, with all the ballots counted, Mr Ramos-Horta had taken 69% of the vote and Mr Guterres 31%. Founder of East Timor's independence movement Spent 24 years in exile after Indonesia invaded Won Nobel Peace Prize in 1996 Former journalist, fluent in five languages The final result is expected to be officially released later after it has been given court approval, a commission spokeswoman said. Mr Ramos-Horta said the result was not a cause of celebration, but the start of five years of hard work ahead. "I will honour what I told the people in the campaign: I will work for the poor, with the entire country, to unite it, and heal its wounds," he said. Mr Guterres conceded defeat, telling reporters he would "bow to the will of the people" and "do everything possible to support Ramos-Horta". The result is a blow to the left-wing Fretilin party, which has been a major force in East Timor politics. Fretilin appears to have fallen out of favour with voters since last year's violence between rival security forces, which resulted in street battles that left more than 30 dead and tens of thousands homeless. The party will have a fight on its hands to stay in government in next month's parliamentary elections, a correspondent in Jakarta says. The outgoing president Xanana Gusmao - an ally of Mr Ramos-Horta who has led the nation since it won independence five years ago, after breaking free from decades of Indonesian rule in 1999 - plans to run for the more powerful position of prime minister in the election. Observers hailed Wednesday's run-off as peaceful and free of intimidation - in contrast to the first round, which was marred by irregularities and fighting between rival supporters. This has raised hopes that the vote may prove to be a turning point for the impoverished and violence-wracked nation. E-mail this to a friend VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS Jose Ramos-Horta on healing rifts in East Timor Vote for new president Tears of East Timor's youth Optimism as East Timor votes Embattled E Timor PM resigns No happy ending forecast Emergency rule for E Timor East Timorese speak of the challenges facing their troubled young nation Refugees tell of torment Rocky path to nationhood The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Koreas agree cross-border train 'New proof' of Japan sex slaves Ramos-Horta 'wins E Timor poll' MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/business/6645625.stm	BBC NEWS | Business | Yukos final assets fetch $3.9bn Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 11:28 GMT 12:28 UK E-mail this to a friend Yukos final assets fetch $3.9bn The sale price of the headquarters exceeded expectations The last assets of Russia's bankrupt oil company Yukos, including its HQ, have been sold to little-known firm Paran for 100bn roubles ($3.9bn; £2bn). The company outbid state-run Rosneft - the expected winner - by offering four times the opening bid. The move marks the end of once-dominant Yukos, whose assets are being sold to pay off $26bn in tax bills imposed after fraud investigations. On Thursday, an offshoot of Rosneft bought Yukos' last production assets. Rosneft bought the last outstanding refining and production asset of Yukos - Samaraneftegaz - at auction for 165.5bn roubles. The starting price at Friday's auction which included the 22-storey Moscow headquarters, as well as various subsidiary outfits, had been 22bn roubles. It had been widely thought Rosneft - which has been buying up Yukos assets for several years - would buy the headquarters. By buying Yukos assets including its three main production units -Yuganskneftegaz, Tomskneft and Samaraneftegaz - Rosneft now owns more than 40% of Russia's oil production. Thursday also saw 537 Yukos petrol stations sold at an auction, to energy firm Yuniteks. As well as facing huge debts, Yukos former chief executive and founder Mikhail Khodorkovsky was jailed for tax evasion. Yukos has argued that the tax demands made by the government were tied to a political campaign against Mr Khodorkovsky, who is currently serving an eight-year prison sentence in Siberia. Russia's government started breaking up Yukos in 2003 after Mr Khodorkovsky was sent to prison. E-mail this to a friend VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS Bankruptcy supervisor speaks of surprise at the auction THE BATTLE OVER YUKOS Rosneft wins first Yukos auction Court imprisons Yukos duo Yukos auction date set for March Yukos loses its bankruptcy appeal Russian probe into Yukos bosses Yukos declared bankrupt by court Boss quits post at troubled Yukos Creditors vote to bankrupt Yukos Rosneft earnings up on Yukos oil Russian tycoon in Siberian jail Yukos and the geopolitics of oil Russia's richest man has fallen foul of the Kremlin and politics. Their risky routes to riches Q&A: The battle for Yukos A blessing in disguise? Timeline: Yukos' rise and fall In Siberia with Yukos The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Inflation 'pushing up pay deals' People 'pay less into pensions' Postal workers to vote on strikes MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/south_asia/6647799.stm	BBC NEWS | World | South Asia | Karachi braced for judge protests Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 16:27 GMT 17:27 UK E-mail this to a friend Karachi braced for judge protests Thousands of security personnel are deployed in the city At least one person has been killed and more than 100 arrested ahead of rallies over Pakistan's continuing judicial crisis in the southern city of Karachi. Demonstrations are planned for Saturday when Pakistan's ousted top judge is due to address his supporters in the city. Chief Justice Iftikhar Chaudhry was suspended by President Musharraf in March. He denies abuse of power. The suspension triggered protests by lawyers and the opposition which have grown into an anti-government campaign. Observers say anger over the judge's suspension poses the biggest challenge to Gen Musharraf's rule since he seized power in 1999. The BBC's Syed Shoaib Hasan in Karachi, capital of Sindh province, says lawyers there plan a massive reception for the chief justice on Saturday. I assure you the MQM will follow the law to the letter Lawyer's house shot at Opposition political parties - including the six-party MMA Islamic alliance and the country's largest party, the Pakistan People's Party - are also expected to participate. The ruling party in Sindh, the Muttahida Qaumi Movement (MQM), has said it will hold rival demonstrations in support of President Musharraf's government on the same day. More than 15,000 security personnel have been deployed in the city to prevent violence. Late on Friday morning, a security guard was shot dead by armed men forcibly closing down a shopping centre on Karachi's main thoroughfare, Shahrah-e-Faisal. Mr Chaudhry was suspended from his post in March Earlier, police arrested scores of political activists and raided homes across the city. "We have detained over 100 people who are a risk to security on 12 May," Azhar Farooqi, the city police chief, told the BBC. "We are monitoring the situation and there may be more arrests required." The city and provincial police are controlled by the home department which is headed by a minister from the MQM. But the party leadership denies that it has used the state machinery to help keep the opposition in line. "I assure you the MQM will follow the law to the letter and never indulge in such tactics," Dr Farooq Sattar, a senior MQM leader, told the BBC. He described such suggestions as "last resort propaganda". Both sides have refused to reschedule their rallies, and the lawyers have accused the provincial government of using intimidatory tactics. Ahead of the 12 May rallies, Munir Malik, a leader of the lawyers' campaign to have the chief justice reinstated, had his offices sealed by local building officials. The courts later suspended the move. Hours later, his home was attacked by unidentified gunmen. Since then there has been a visible increase in tensions in Karachi, which has a long history of political violence, our correspondent says. Both government and opposition politicians have called for restraint. E-mail this to a friend How the Taleban and their supporters are moving eastwards in Pakistan. The judge and democracy Profile: PM Shaukat Aziz The scientist who confessed International Commission of Jurists The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites TOP SOUTH ASIA STORIES Uttar Pradesh low caste landslide US admits Afghan civilians killed Karachi braced for judge protests MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/europe/6646239.stm	BBC NEWS | World | Europe | Serbian parties in coalition deal Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 19:46 GMT 20:46 UK E-mail this to a friend Serbian parties in coalition deal Vojislav Kostunica will stay on as prime minister Serbia's main pro-reform parties have agreed to form a government, keeping out the largest party in parliament, the hardline nationalist Radicals. The coalition was agreed more than three months after the general election, and four days before a deadline for new polls expired. Serbian President Boris Tadic said caretaker Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica would stay on in the post. Radical parliamentary speaker Tomislav Nikolic has said he will resign. A parliamentary session will be held on Sunday to approve the new government. The deal was reached after hours of negotiations between President Tadic, leader of the Democratic Party, and Mr Kostunica, from the Democratic Party of Serbia (DSS). It has been reported that the ministries of defence and interior will be divided between these two parties. Democratic Party of Serbia (DSS) Earlier this week, Mr Nikolic was elected parliamentary speaker, prompting fears that Serbia could abandon the road to reform. The nationalist Radicals became the largest party in parliament in the January election. But no party has enough seats to govern alone. Reports said President Tadic, whose party is the most pro-Western, would take charge of the national security council, responsible for the hunt for the fugitive Bosnian Serb wartime leaders Ratko Mladic and Radovan Karadzic. The agreement involves the Democratic Party, the DSS, G-17 and New Serbia. The BBC's Nick Hawton in Belgrade says the deal marks an end to the immediate political crisis facing Serbia. But he says an even greater challenge lies ahead. The UN Security Council is currently discussing a plan to give Kosovo its independence, something demanded by its majority Albanian population. Serbia strongly opposes the plan and has vowed never to accept it. E-mail this to a friend VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS Moves to end months of political deadlock in Serbia 08 May 07 | Country profiles Political uncertainty stalks Serbia 08 May 07 | Europe Serbian media gloom at Radical's election 08 May 07 | Europe Serbian coalition struggle begins 22 Jan 07 | Europe Serbia nationalists claim victory 22 Jan 07 | Europe Kosovo looms large in Serb poll 18 Jan 07 | Europe Serbian Radical Party (in Serbian) The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Polish court strikes down spy law Serbian parties in coalition deal Last goodbye for Blair and Chirac MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/south_asia/6647005.stm	BBC NEWS | World | South Asia | US admits Afghan civilians killed Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 16:44 GMT 17:44 UK E-mail this to a friend US admits Afghan civilians killed US forces said they called in air support US-led forces have admitted civilians were killed in fighting with Taleban insurgents this week in the southern Afghan province of Helmand. Local officials say at least 21 people died when US-led forces called in air strikes against militants near Sangin. In turn, a local elder ordered the killing of a Taleban commander for ambushing the US-led ground forces and triggering the air strikes. The fighting, near the town of Sangin, has been continuing. One child, who was evacuated to a Coalition medical treatment facility nearby, later died of wounds "There are confirmed reports of civilian casualties; however, it is unknown... how many," a statement from US-led coalition troops said. It said up to 20 wounded villagers had been treated by coalition forces. It is the third time in recent months that US special forces, who operate outside Nato remit, have been accused of causing significant civilian casualties. Public discontent in Afghanistan is growing over the rising number of civilian casualties and the government's failure to improve the lives of most Afghans. The US military say they called in air strikes on Tuesday night after US special forces and Afghan troops came under mortar, rocket and small arms fire while on patrol 25km (15 miles) north of Sangin. Senate urges Taleban talks Civilian deaths 'shame' US The aircraft destroyed "three enemy command and control compounds", spokesmen said on Wednesday. They said troops had killed a "significant" number of militants. Locals said villages had been hit, and children and women were among the dead. One villager quoted by Reuters news agency denied Taleban fighters had used them as "human shields". However, in the aftermath of the battle, a Taleban commander, Haji Wali Mohammad, was killed at the orders of a local elder who criticised his men for using local people's homes to fight from. The elder said that by ambushing the Americans, the Taleban had brought the bombs to the villages. The elder was then killed in retaliation by other Taleban fighters, according to reports from local people. There are more than 11,000 US troops in Afghanistan outside of the Nato mandate who are involved in counter terrorism and training the Afghan security forces. The US-led coalition statement on Friday said a joint inquiry into the incident was being conducted with the Afghan army. It said a wounded child had died after being evacuated by the coalition for treatment. Foreign forces and Afghan troops are trying to drive militants from the lawless, opium-producing region of Sangin. The rising number of civilian casualties there and elsewhere in the country is putting President Hamid Karzai under increasing pressure. On Tuesday, the Afghan Senate urged him to open direct talks with local Taleban militants, and for attacks on them to stop. Earlier that day, the US military had said it was "deeply ashamed" over the killings of 19 Afghan civilians by US Marines in early March. Correspondents say that casualties in remote battle sites in Afghanistan are almost impossible to verify. Taleban fighters are often accused of seeking shelter in peoples' homes, leading to civilian casualties, and it is often difficult to determine if people killed in such air strikes were militants or civilians. E-mail this to a friend President Karzai's Afghanistan still faces daunting challenges, writes Lyse Doucet. Herat: A city reborn In pictures: Ordinary lives Pain of suicide women In graphics: Harsh realities Who are the militants? Travelling with the Taleban Views on foreign troops Should Nato boost presence? One Day in Afghanistan The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites TOP SOUTH ASIA STORIES Uttar Pradesh low caste landslide US admits Afghan civilians killed Karachi braced for judge protests MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/sport1/hi/motorsport/formula_one/6646055.stm	BBC SPORT | Motorsport | Formula One | Alonso bounces back to set pace Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation F1 on Five Live>> Friday, 11 May 2007, 13:42 GMT 14:42 UK E-mail this to a friend Alonso bounces back to set pace Alonso is determined to win his home Grand Prix Fernando Alonso underlined how much he wants to win his home Spanish Grand Prix with the fastest time in practice. The world champion bounced back after being beaten by team-mate Lewis Hamilton in Friday's first session to dominate practice in the afternoon. Alonso set a best lap of one minute 21.397 seconds to beat Hamilton, who was fifth, by 0.791secs. The Renaults of Giancarlo Fisichella and Heikki Kovalainen were second and third, ahead of Ferrari's Felipe Massa. Hamilton improved by only 0.1secs over his morning time, while Alonso found nearly 0.9secs. Your views on the Spanish Grand Prix In the morning session, Alonso, who was outpaced by his rookie team-mate at the last race in Bahrain, set the early pace in 1:22.449, with Hamilton just behind. Both drivers improved their times on their second series of laps, but this time Hamilton was just over 0.1secs faster than the world champion. The 22-year-old improved his time again, by nearly 0.3secs on his third run, whereas Alonso did not go any faster, but the Spaniard was still clear of the Ferraris. Schumacher is attending his first GP since his retirement By the end of the afternoon Hamilton was sandwiched between the two Ferraris, with Kimi Raikkonen in sixth place, suggesting another close battle between F1's two dominant teams. The pace of the Renaults appears not to be indicative of a major step forward after their disappointing start to the season, according to Fisichella. "My feeling is that we are possibly a little bit closer to the cars in front of us," the Italian said, "even if we are clearly not fast enough to be second in the times on speed alone." Kovalainen added: "The target has to be to qualify in the top 10 but, just like at the last three races, it is going to be tough." Jenson Button continued to struggle in the Honda, managing only the 13th fastest time in the afternoon, just ahead of team-mate Rubens Barrichello. Button was 10th fastest in the morning, when he was nearly half a second down on Anthony Davidson's Super Aguri, which is effectively Honda's 2006 car. Button said: "We have made some small steps with the stability of the car since the last race but the outright pace has not yet improved a lot." Davidson dropped to 20th in the second session. Times from first practice at the Spanish Grand Prix: 1. Lewis Hamilton (GB) McLaren-Mercedes one minute 21.880 seconds 2. Fernando Alonso (Spa) McLaren-Mercedes 1:22.268 3. Kimi Raikkonen (Fin) Ferrari 1:22.291 4. Robert Kubica (Pol) BMW Sauber 1:22.446 5. Felipe Massa (Brz) Ferrari 1:22.565 6. Anthony Davidson (GB) Super Aguri-Honda 1:22.665 7. Jarno Trulli (Ita) Toyota 1:22.740 8. Ralf Schumacher (Ger) Toyota 1:22.843 9. Nico Rosberg (Ger) Williams-Toyota 1:23.048 10. Jenson Button (GB) Honda 1:23.114 11. Alexander Wurz (Aut) Williams-Toyota 1:23.131 12. Nick Heidfeld (Ger) BMW Sauber 1:23.170 13. Takuma Sato (Jpn) Super Aguri-Honda 1:23.316 14. Heikki Kovalainen (Fin) Renault 1:23.322 15. Giancarlo Fisichella (Ita) Renault 1:23.397 16. David Coulthard (GB) Red Bull-Renault 1:23.428 17. Mark Webber (Aus) Red Bull-Renault 1:23.444 18. Rubens Barrichello (Brz) Honda 1:23.479 19. Adrian Sutil (Ger) Spyker-Ferrari 1:23.954 20. Vitantonio Liuzzi (Ita) Toro Rosso-Ferrari 1:24.104 21. Scott Speed (USA) Toro Rosso-Ferrari 1:24.179 22. Christijan Albers (Ned) Spyker-Ferrari 1:24.396 Times from the second practice session: 18. Jarno Trulli, Italy, Toyota, 1:23.307 Follow live coverage of the Spainsh Grand Prix on BBC Five Live and this website. Qualifying starts at 1300 BST on Saturday, with the race at the same time on Sunday. Schumi hails precocious Hamilton 11 May 07 | Formula One Singapore to stage F1 night race 11 May 07 | Formula One Renault expect tough Spanish test 08 May 07 | Formula One Schumacher to attend Spanish GP 09 May 07 | Formula One Valencia streets to host F1 GP 10 May 07 | Formula One Ralf expects F1 drive next season 11 May 07 | Formula One Your say on Formula One - 606 Five Live Formula One The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites BBC PRODUCTS AND SERVICES Daily and weekly e-mails Back to top ^^ Privacy & Cookies Policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/south_asia/6645457.stm	BBC NEWS | World | South Asia | Indians mark revolt anniversary Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 09:02 GMT 10:02 UK E-mail this to a friend Indians mark revolt anniversary In pictures: Uprising celebrations A ceremony has been held in India to mark the 150th anniversary of the landmark revolt against the British. Hundreds of gaily-dressed performers enacted scenes from the 1857 uprising to recreate a sense of history at the Red Fort in the capital, Delhi. Prime Minister Manmohan Singh told the crowd that the revolt was "a shining example of our national unity". It is known in India as the first war of India's independence, while in the UK it is usually called a mutiny. At the majestic 17th Century Red Fort, the celebrations began early on Friday morning. Scenes from the uprising were enacted before an audience that comprised the entire Indian leadership, including the president and the prime minister. Some historians say the rebellion was the first war of independence "There is no doubt that 1857 was a shining example of our national unity," Prime Minister Singh said, addressing the crowds from the Red Fort. "Our war of independence was based on unity in diversity and today our national unity is also based on this. "This is our strength and this is our destiny." It was in Delhi 150 years ago that hundreds of Indian soldiers breached the city walls and swore allegiance to the last Mogul emperor, setting off a brutal uprising that lasted for months. The BBC's Sanjoy Majumder in Delhi says the government is projecting the event as one of unity, an occasion when Hindus and Muslims rose as one against the British. But he says that many of Friday's performers were drawn from parts of India that had nothing to do with the uprising, such as the south and the north-east. Our correspondent says it is an illustration of the ambiguity that surrounds the event, with some arguing that it was far too localised to be characterised as a war of independence. Others say it was too violent in a country that eventually won its independence after a non-violent struggle. Security has been tight across the city. Thousands of policemen and soldiers were deployed to ensure the event passed off peacefully. Schools, colleges and many offices were closed for the occasion and traffic on the streets was thin. Thousands of people, who have been retracing the steps of the Indian soldiers who marched from Meerut town to Delhi 150 years ago, reached the capital on Thursday night. Speaking in parliament on Thursday, Prime Minister Manmohan Singh urged India to honour the memory of the rebels. "As a nation inspired by Mahatma Gandhi's message of non-violence, India has consciously abjured violence as an instrument of social and political change," Mr Singh said. "Yet we cannot forget those inspired revolutionaries - many of them anonymous to history - who sacrificed their lives in 1857 to free the country from foreign yoke," he said. The uprising began when native Hindu and Muslim soldiers, known as sepoys, revolted against the British East India Company over fears that new gun cartridges were greased with animal fat forbidden by their religions. The rebellion was eventually crushed by the British. On Monday, thousands of people began marching towards the capital in a colourful procession. Around 10,000 people retraced the march that dozens of mutinous Indian soldiers undertook from the garrison town of Meerut in a bid to capture Delhi. Many of the marchers were dressed like Indian soldiers and British officers and staged mock fights with swords and muskets on top of colourful floats. They carried huge banners and posters with messages referring to the revolt, which left many British and Indians dead. Although the uprising was crushed, historians say it laid the seeds of a popular revolt against British occupation which culminated in full independence. After suppressing the revolt, the British captured Delhi and exiled the last Mughal emperor, Bahadur Shah Zafar, to Rangoon in Burma. He died in captivity five years later. The revolt ended the British East India Company's rule in India, making way for direct rule by the British government until 1947, when the country gained independence. E-mail this to a friend VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS Performers re-enact the uprising India marks uprising anniversary 07 May 07 | South Asia School history 'must diversify' 13 Oct 06 | Education British Empire lessons proposed 30 Jun 06 | Education 'Teach more about British Empire' 11 Jul 04 | Education History exams 'seriously flawed' 01 Mar 05 | Education The (British) Empire strikes back 13 Jul 04 | Magazine Indian Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites TOP SOUTH ASIA STORIES Uttar Pradesh low caste landslide US admits Afghan civilians killed Karachi braced for judge protests MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/uk/6647865.stm	BBC NEWS | UK | Iraq leader says troops must stay Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 18:09 GMT 19:09 UK E-mail this to a friend Iraq leader says troops must stay Jalal Talabani (right) also met Tony Blair at Downing Street US and British troops will need to stay another one or two years in Iraq, Iraqi President Jalal Talabani has said. Mr Talabani was addressing students during a visit to Cambridge University. Asked when the UK and US should leave, he said: "I think in one or two years we will be able to recruit our own army forces and say goodbye to our friends." He added that he considered Prime Minister Tony Blair to be a "hero" and said he hoped Gordon Brown would continue his work. In the latest violence in Iraq, twin suicide bombings in south-eastern Baghdad have killed 22 people and injured 60. The victims include police officers, Iraqi soldiers and civilians. The attacks happened on two bridges in the capital which form a key route out of the south of the city. After a meeting with Mr Blair at 10 Downing Street, Mr Talabani said Mr Blair was a "dear friend" and a "great leader". I think it was a very noble job that your army and your people did in Iraq The Iraqi president expressed his sympathy towards the families of British forces killed in his country, who he said had died for a just cause. He said: "I am very, very sorry for the lives lost in Iraq." "I think it was a very noble job that your army and your people did in Iraq." Mr Talabani urged US politicians to reconsider plans to begin withdrawing their forces from his country. On Thursday, the US House of Representatives passed a draft bill that would provide funding for troops in Iraq only until July. Mr Talabani told reporters: "We are concerned. We hope that Congress will review this decision and help the American army to stay until the Iraqi army will be able to replace them and to protect the security of Iraq." E-mail this to a friend THE STRUGGLE FOR IRAQ US House passes Iraq funding bill Cheney addresses troops in Iraq US Marine 'shot unarmed Iraqis' Bush 'would veto new Iraq bill' Car bomb explodes in Iraqi city The Iraq summit was a limited success for US contacts with Iran and Syria Despair as Baghdad plan falters Massacre fuels northern tensions Baghdad: Mapping the violence Iraq violence in figures Baker's sweet smell of success Your views: Iraq four years on TV reports on Iraq Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Madeleine parents 'won't give up' 11 Menezes police face no action MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/world/south_asia/6647005.stm	BBC NEWS | World | South Asia | US admits Afghan civilians killed Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 16:44 GMT 17:44 UK E-mail this to a friend US admits Afghan civilians killed US forces said they called in air support US-led forces have admitted civilians were killed in fighting with Taleban insurgents this week in the southern Afghan province of Helmand. Local officials say at least 21 people died when US-led forces called in air strikes against militants near Sangin. In turn, a local elder ordered the killing of a Taleban commander for ambushing the US-led ground forces and triggering the air strikes. The fighting, near the town of Sangin, has been continuing. One child, who was evacuated to a Coalition medical treatment facility nearby, later died of wounds "There are confirmed reports of civilian casualties; however, it is unknown... how many," a statement from US-led coalition troops said. It said up to 20 wounded villagers had been treated by coalition forces. It is the third time in recent months that US special forces, who operate outside Nato remit, have been accused of causing significant civilian casualties. Public discontent in Afghanistan is growing over the rising number of civilian casualties and the government's failure to improve the lives of most Afghans. The US military say they called in air strikes on Tuesday night after US special forces and Afghan troops came under mortar, rocket and small arms fire while on patrol 25km (15 miles) north of Sangin. Senate urges Taleban talks Civilian deaths 'shame' US The aircraft destroyed "three enemy command and control compounds", spokesmen said on Wednesday. They said troops had killed a "significant" number of militants. Locals said villages had been hit, and children and women were among the dead. One villager quoted by Reuters news agency denied Taleban fighters had used them as "human shields". However, in the aftermath of the battle, a Taleban commander, Haji Wali Mohammad, was killed at the orders of a local elder who criticised his men for using local people's homes to fight from. The elder said that by ambushing the Americans, the Taleban had brought the bombs to the villages. The elder was then killed in retaliation by other Taleban fighters, according to reports from local people. There are more than 11,000 US troops in Afghanistan outside of the Nato mandate who are involved in counter terrorism and training the Afghan security forces. The US-led coalition statement on Friday said a joint inquiry into the incident was being conducted with the Afghan army. It said a wounded child had died after being evacuated by the coalition for treatment. Foreign forces and Afghan troops are trying to drive militants from the lawless, opium-producing region of Sangin. The rising number of civilian casualties there and elsewhere in the country is putting President Hamid Karzai under increasing pressure. On Tuesday, the Afghan Senate urged him to open direct talks with local Taleban militants, and for attacks on them to stop. Earlier that day, the US military had said it was "deeply ashamed" over the killings of 19 Afghan civilians by US Marines in early March. Correspondents say that casualties in remote battle sites in Afghanistan are almost impossible to verify. Taleban fighters are often accused of seeking shelter in peoples' homes, leading to civilian casualties, and it is often difficult to determine if people killed in such air strikes were militants or civilians. E-mail this to a friend President Karzai's Afghanistan still faces daunting challenges, writes Lyse Doucet. Herat: A city reborn In pictures: Ordinary lives Pain of suicide women In graphics: Harsh realities Who are the militants? Travelling with the Taleban Views on foreign troops Should Nato boost presence? One Day in Afghanistan The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites TOP SOUTH ASIA STORIES Uttar Pradesh low caste landslide US admits Afghan civilians killed Karachi braced for judge protests MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/uk_politics/6645465.stm	BBC NEWS | Politics | Last goodbye for Blair and Chirac Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 19:32 GMT 20:32 UK E-mail this to a friend Last goodbye for Blair and Chirac Mr Blair met Jacques Chirac and his successor Nicolas Sarkozy Outgoing British Prime Minister Tony Blair has visited Paris to say farewell to outgoing French president and political adversary, Jacques Chirac. Mr Blair and Mr Chirac have disagreed regularly on EU matters over the years but greeted each other warmly on the Elysee Palace steps. Their biggest falling out came when Mr Blair allied with Washington over Iraq. Mr Blair also held talks with French President-elect Nicolas Sarkozy, who takes power on 16 May. The meeting was Mr Sarkozy's first with a foreign leader and was followed by a private dinner. During the talks they were joined by Francois Fillon, expected to be named next week as Mr Sarkozy's prime minister, and British ambassador to France, Peter Westmacott. Speaking after the meeting Mr Sarkozy said he had been "very impressed" by Mr Blair's decade in office. He said it was not the length of his time in office which was impressive but what he had achieved. On one of his last visits to Britain, Mr Sarkozy visited a job centre to see how the UK dealt with unemployment. I am tempted to say that Sarkozy is currently the most successful Blairite around BBC Europe editor Mark Mardell Europe diary: Blair's friends He has made the fight against joblessness his top priority for France. The main subject of Mr Blair and Mr Sarkozy's talks was Europe and the future of the EU Constitutional Treaty - which France scuppered by voting against, in its referendum two years ago. Mr Sarkozy wants, instead, a pragmatic form of mini-treaty, pared down to its bare essentials, to be voted through national parliaments rather than risk another referendum. However, Britain and France still disagree on some areas, not least over Turkish membership of the EU, which Britain favours and Mr Sarkozy remains firmly against. A government official said there had been "common ground" between the two men during the talks. The German Chancellor, Angela Merkel, is working on a roadmap towards a new treaty to be discussed at the European Council meeting in late June. She is not expected to meet the new French president for talks until after 16 May. E-mail this to a friend Nick Assinder on what Gordon Brown might do in the top job Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Deputy contenders woo MPs Brown rivals delay bid decision Blair will stand down on 27 June Prescott quits as deputy leader Q&A: What happens now? In depth: Blair's legacy From rebellious schoolboy to global statesman. Would Brown be right for PM? Who would make the best leader of the Labour Party? None of the above Results are indicative and may not reflect public opinion Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Labour deputy hopefuls woo MPs SNP and Greens sign working deal MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/sport1/hi/cricket/other_international/australia/6645531.stm	BBC SPORT | Cricket | International Teams | Australia | ICC pressed for Zimbabwe action Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Friday, 11 May 2007, 07:06 GMT 08:06 UK E-mail this to a friend ICC pressed for Zimbabwe action Australia last played Zimbabwe in a World Cup warm-up game in St Vincent Australian prime minister John Howard has stepped up his campaign to persuade the International Cricket Council to take action against Zimbabwe. Cricket Australia is facing a US $2m fine if it pulls out of a one-day series in Zimbabwe later this year. But Howard said: "Our over-riding objective is the tour not take place. "How long can the international cricket community go on doing things that give aid and comfort to someone who has been totally impervious to any entreaties?" The prime minister described Zimbabwe president Robert Mugabe as a "grubby dictator" who had sanctioned violence to try and silence his political opponents. "I am jammed between my distaste for the government getting involved in something like this and my even greater distaste for giving a propaganda victory to Robert Mugabe," he added. The Australian team is due to play three one-day internationals in Zimbabwe in September and the only way their governing body could escape a financial penalty for cancelling the tour would be if the decision was taken because of security concerns. The government is, however, investigating whether there would be a legal basis for it to intervene and prohibit the tour. Foreign minister Alexander Downer met officials from Cricket Australia and the players' union, the ACA, in Melbourne on Thursday. Afterwards, Cricket Australia chief James Sutherland said they understood "very clearly" the government's preference for the team not to undertake the tour. But he added: "Cricket Australia is also conscious of world cricket's requirements that each country visit all other nations regularly as part of the ICC's Future Tours Program. Cricket Australia is strongly committed to the global development of cricket." Australia last played in Zimbabwe in 2004, a tour which was boycotted by spin bowler Stuart MacGill, and he has already spoken out about this year's proposed series. The ICC, meanwhile, issued a statement earlier this week in which it claimed it was "not a party" to the Future Tours Program Agreement between the 10 full member countries. "A member that does not comply with its obligation to tour another member is subject to a penalty of a minimum of US $2m or such greater amount that the host member can prove to have lost as a result of the failure to tour. "This is not an ICC fine. It is a contractual obligation between the respective members and if a member fails to fulfil that obligation, then it would have to pay the member against which it is defaulting," the statement continued. TEST MATCH SPECIAL BLOG Yorkshire back on front foot England look to Flower to bloom Referral rule needs close scrutiny Australia may scrap Zimbabwe tour 04 May 07 | Australia Your say on Australian cricket - 606 ICC statement on tours to Zimbabwe The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites BBC PRODUCTS AND SERVICES Daily and weekly e-mails Back to top ^^ Privacy & Cookies Policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/world/south_asia/6645457.stm	BBC NEWS | World | South Asia | Indians mark revolt anniversary Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 09:02 GMT 10:02 UK E-mail this to a friend Indians mark revolt anniversary In pictures: Uprising celebrations A ceremony has been held in India to mark the 150th anniversary of the landmark revolt against the British. Hundreds of gaily-dressed performers enacted scenes from the 1857 uprising to recreate a sense of history at the Red Fort in the capital, Delhi. Prime Minister Manmohan Singh told the crowd that the revolt was "a shining example of our national unity". It is known in India as the first war of India's independence, while in the UK it is usually called a mutiny. At the majestic 17th Century Red Fort, the celebrations began early on Friday morning. Scenes from the uprising were enacted before an audience that comprised the entire Indian leadership, including the president and the prime minister. Some historians say the rebellion was the first war of independence "There is no doubt that 1857 was a shining example of our national unity," Prime Minister Singh said, addressing the crowds from the Red Fort. "Our war of independence was based on unity in diversity and today our national unity is also based on this. "This is our strength and this is our destiny." It was in Delhi 150 years ago that hundreds of Indian soldiers breached the city walls and swore allegiance to the last Mogul emperor, setting off a brutal uprising that lasted for months. The BBC's Sanjoy Majumder in Delhi says the government is projecting the event as one of unity, an occasion when Hindus and Muslims rose as one against the British. But he says that many of Friday's performers were drawn from parts of India that had nothing to do with the uprising, such as the south and the north-east. Our correspondent says it is an illustration of the ambiguity that surrounds the event, with some arguing that it was far too localised to be characterised as a war of independence. Others say it was too violent in a country that eventually won its independence after a non-violent struggle. Security has been tight across the city. Thousands of policemen and soldiers were deployed to ensure the event passed off peacefully. Schools, colleges and many offices were closed for the occasion and traffic on the streets was thin. Thousands of people, who have been retracing the steps of the Indian soldiers who marched from Meerut town to Delhi 150 years ago, reached the capital on Thursday night. Speaking in parliament on Thursday, Prime Minister Manmohan Singh urged India to honour the memory of the rebels. "As a nation inspired by Mahatma Gandhi's message of non-violence, India has consciously abjured violence as an instrument of social and political change," Mr Singh said. "Yet we cannot forget those inspired revolutionaries - many of them anonymous to history - who sacrificed their lives in 1857 to free the country from foreign yoke," he said. The uprising began when native Hindu and Muslim soldiers, known as sepoys, revolted against the British East India Company over fears that new gun cartridges were greased with animal fat forbidden by their religions. The rebellion was eventually crushed by the British. On Monday, thousands of people began marching towards the capital in a colourful procession. Around 10,000 people retraced the march that dozens of mutinous Indian soldiers undertook from the garrison town of Meerut in a bid to capture Delhi. Many of the marchers were dressed like Indian soldiers and British officers and staged mock fights with swords and muskets on top of colourful floats. They carried huge banners and posters with messages referring to the revolt, which left many British and Indians dead. Although the uprising was crushed, historians say it laid the seeds of a popular revolt against British occupation which culminated in full independence. After suppressing the revolt, the British captured Delhi and exiled the last Mughal emperor, Bahadur Shah Zafar, to Rangoon in Burma. He died in captivity five years later. The revolt ended the British East India Company's rule in India, making way for direct rule by the British government until 1947, when the country gained independence. E-mail this to a friend VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS Performers re-enact the uprising India marks uprising anniversary 07 May 07 | South Asia School history 'must diversify' 13 Oct 06 | Education British Empire lessons proposed 30 Jun 06 | Education 'Teach more about British Empire' 11 Jul 04 | Education History exams 'seriously flawed' 01 Mar 05 | Education The (British) Empire strikes back 13 Jul 04 | Magazine Indian Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites TOP SOUTH ASIA STORIES Uttar Pradesh low caste landslide US admits Afghan civilians killed Karachi braced for judge protests MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/world/asia-pacific/6646297.stm	BBC NEWS | World | Asia-Pacific | 'New proof' of Japan sex slaves Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 13:00 GMT 14:00 UK E-mail this to a friend 'New proof' of Japan sex slaves About 200,000 women worked as Japanese sex slaves in WWII Reports from Japan say documents have been found that suggest the Japanese forced women to work as sex slaves during World War II. They come from the Dutch government archives and include the testimony of a 27-year-old Dutch woman from May 1946. The Kyodo news agency says the documents show women were coerced into prostitution in occupied Indonesia. Japan's PM Shinzo Abe had claimed no evidence existed to prove that women had been forced to work as sex slaves. The documents are reported to have been found by a Japanese journalist investigating Japan's wartime crimes in Asia. The Dutch woman's testimony says she had her clothes ripped off her by Japanese military police. She says she was taken to a brothel and forced to work as a prostitute, despite her efforts to resist. That testimony, it is claimed, was submitted to the Tokyo War Crimes Tribunal as evidence of forced mass prostitution in Magelang, in what is now Central Java, in 1944. Other documents are said to include further allegations that the Japanese forced women into prostitution. Earlier this year Prime Minister Abe said that investigations had failed to find any documentary evidence that the Japanese authorities in wartime had issued orders to soldiers to coerce women into sex slavery. He said though that he stood by a Japanese government apology to the women, known in Japan as "comfort women". The journalist who found these documents says they contradict the prime minister's denial that the authorities were directly involved in coercion. The Japanese Foreign Ministry says it is aware of his claims but has not seen the documents so cannot comment on what they might contain. It says the Japanese government has investigated its wartime activities in Indonesia thoroughly and acknowledges and apologises for the country's wartime use of sex slaves. E-mail this to a friend Abe explains sex slave comments 27 Apr 07 | Asia-Pacific Japan's Abe heads to Washington 26 Apr 07 | Asia-Pacific Japan PM apology on sex slaves 26 Mar 07 | Asia-Pacific Viewpoints: Abe sex slave row 21 Mar 07 | Asia-Pacific Japan anger at US sex slave bill 19 Feb 07 | Asia-Pacific 26 Sep 06 | Asia-Pacific The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Koreas agree cross-border train 'New proof' of Japan sex slaves Ramos-Horta 'wins E Timor poll' MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/south_asia/6643953.stm	BBC NEWS | World | South Asia | Uttar Pradesh low caste landslide Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 17:13 GMT 18:13 UK E-mail this to a friend Uttar Pradesh low caste landslide BSP supporters see their party set for government India's low-caste Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) has swept to a historic victory in assembly elections in the key northern state of Uttar Pradesh. With all but a handful of results declared, the BSP had won 202 of the 403 seats to allow it to form its own government, Indian media reports said. It is the first time since 1991 that any party in the state has done so. Uttar Pradesh is India's most populous state and has long been its most politically influential. I thank people of all castes and communities who supported my party Blow to economic reform? The BBC's Sanjoy Majumder in Delhi says the result represents a major setback for India's mainstream political parties who faired poorly in polls which observers believe could help determine India's political future. He says many believe it is significant that BSP leader Ms Mayawati - a fiery politician from the poor, deprived Dalit (formerly untouchable) caste - has managed to spread her political appeal and that it may not be long before India votes in a lower caste prime minister. Jubilant, flag-waving BSP supporters gathered on Friday outside Ms Mayawati's residence in Lucknow, the capital of Uttar Pradesh. Mayawati is a Dalit, at the bottom of the caste system Dancing party supporters set off fire crackers and celebrated with sweets. Ms Mayawati now begins her fourth term in office, but hers will not this time be a coalition government. "I thank people of all castes and communities who supported my party to achieve this overwhelming victory," she told a news conference. Outgoing chief minister Mulayam Singh Yadav had earlier admitted defeat and resigned. His Samajwadi Party came a poor second, far behind the BSP. India's two main political parties - the governing Congress and the main opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) - also did very badly. Both have been on the decline in Uttar Pradesh in recent years. The poor Congress showing came despite a high-profile campaign by Rahul Gandhi - the fourth generation of the famous dynasty. Former Chief Minister Mulayam Singh Yadav has admitted defeat Ms Mayawati's support base is mostly with the lower caste and poor communities who form a significant percentage of the Uttar Pradesh electorate. The elections were held in seven phases over a month for logistical reasons. None of the phases had a turnout higher than 50%. The vote will also be remembered for having seen no significant violence, unlike in the past. Caste and religion have been dominant factors in politics over the past two decades in Uttar Pradesh, one of India's poorest states. Uttar Pradesh is also plagued by corruption, and lags behind other parts of India in areas like development and health. Because of its sheer size and numbers, Uttar Pradesh, commonly called UP, holds an important place in the Indian political system. More than 49 million people were eligible to vote at nearly 50,000 polling stations in Uttar Pradesh, watched over by thousands of police and paramilitary troops. The state has more than 175 million inhabitants. It sends 80 MPs - the highest number in India - to the federal parliament, more than any other state. It has produced most of India's prime ministers, including the Nehru-Gandhi dynasty. E-mail this to a friend 11 May 07 | South Asia India's reform programme suffers a blow 11 May 07 | South Asia Politics and the barrel of the gun 07 May 07 | South Asia Summer of discontent in Uttar Pradesh 17 Apr 07 | South Asia BJP protests in campaign CD row 09 Apr 07 | South Asia Muslim minority ruling suspended 06 Apr 07 | South Asia Hoping against hope in Uttar Pradesh 06 Apr 07 | South Asia India politician's wealth probed 01 Mar 07 | South Asia Election Commission of India The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites TOP SOUTH ASIA STORIES Uttar Pradesh low caste landslide US admits Afghan civilians killed Karachi braced for judge protests MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/uk_politics/6644717.stm	BBC NEWS | Politics | Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 15:45 GMT 16:45 UK E-mail this to a friend Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Gordon Brown said he had the "new ideas and vision" to govern Britain as he launched his long-awaited campaign to lead Labour and become prime minister. He praised Tony Blair and said he wanted to make the UK "one of the great success stories of the new century". But the launch suffered a hitch with Mr Brown's face obscured on TV coverage of his speech by glass autocues. Mr Blair earlier endorsed Mr Brown's bid to succeed him as prime minister, saying "he has what it takes". I want to lead a government humble enough to know its place - where I will always strive to be - and that is on people's side What will he do as PM? Launching his campaign at the Imagination Gallery in central London, Mr Brown said Mr Blair "has led our country for ten years with distinction - with courage, passion and insight". But he added: "In the weeks and months ahead, my task is to show I have the new ideas, the vision and the experience to earn the trust of the British people." Mr Brown said he welcomed challenges from other leadership contenders and pledged to lead a government "of all the talents," refusing to rule out employing ministers from other parties. Was that really him behind those plate glass windows? Standing in front of his campaign logo, "Gordon Brown for Britain", Mr Brown pledged to tour the country to "listen and learn" about people's concerns. "I want to lead a government humble enough to know its place - where I will always strive to be - and that is on people's side," he said. He rejected Conservative calls for a snap election, saying the Tories did not call for an election in 1990, when Margaret Thatcher stood down. He also denied he would move the government to the left, saying he would continue to "drive forward" New Labour reforms to the public services. But he said he wanted to strengthen Britain's constitution and give more power to MPs. "One of my first acts as prime minister would be to restore power to Parliament in order to build the trust of the British people in our democracy. "Government must be more open and more accountable to Parliament - for example in decisions about peace and war, in public appointments and in a new ministerial code of conduct." He can make a real difference to this country for the better and for the good In Full: Brown's speech Media: 'Iraq tarnished Blair' Mr Brown also suggested Britain could get its first written constitution, saying: "We need a constitution that is clear about the rights and responsibilities of being a citizen in Britain today." On Iraq, Mr Brown said: "I accept that mistakes have been made." He said he would be visiting Britain's troops and "listening to what the government of Iraq says". Later, in a speech in Knebworth, in Hertfordshire, Mr Brown promised to create a "new kind of politics" in which the government "gives power away so that people in the community can have more power". He said the challenge facing the government was to "create a strong society" to go with Britain's "strong economy". Mr Brown is the firm favourite to succeed Mr Blair when he quits on 27 June. He could still face a challenge from one of two left-wing backbenchers but there appears to be a coordinated effort among Labour MPs to unite behind him, with Blairite MPs Stephen Byers and Alan Milburn also expected to back him. I feel like Brown has been snuck in through the back door Send us your comments Mr Blair, who until now has held back from endorsing Mr Brown's bid to replace him, said: "I am absolutely delighted to give my full support to Gordon as the next leader of the Labour Party and as prime minister and to endorse him fully." He added: "He has shown, as perhaps the most successful chancellor in our country's history, that he's got the strength and the experience and the judgment to make a great prime minister." But shadow chancellor George Osborne, for the Conservatives, said Mr Brown as chancellor had been "responsible for the failures of the past 10 years". "When you look at the things people are really fed up with, like the collapse of the pension system, like the failure to get money to the frontline of the health service, Gordon Brown is more responsible for that than any other politician including Tony Blair," Mr Osborne told BBC News 24. Q&A: What happens now? Analysis: Blair's exit message Referring to Labour's heavy election losses last week, he added: "I don't see how he could be the change that the country wants and the country voted for." Liberal Democrat Treasury spokesman Vincent Cable said Mr Brown had focused too much on improving his image and criticised his "presidential" style. He added: "When he has tried to change his personality for PR purposes, it's been excruciatingly embarrassing... I think he's much better off being himself." Mr Brown is spending the day touring marginal Labour seats which the Tories are targeting. Commons leader Jack Straw, Mr Brown's campaign manager, said he wanted to "reach out" to the voters in the South-East of England that had brought Labour to power in 1997. Mr Straw also denied suggestions there would be a cooling in relations between Downing Street and Washington under a Brown premiership. He told BBC Radio 4's Today programme: "Gordon Brown and George Bush don't know each other anywhere nearly as well as Tony Blair and George Bush. That relationship will develop." Backbenchers Michael Meacher and John McDonnell are still trying to muster enough support between them to mount a leadership bid. They will meet on Monday - when nominations officially open - and the one with the fewest confirmed backers will stand aside. E-mail this to a friend VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS Gordon Brown launches his leadership bid Nick Assinder on what Gordon Brown might do in the top job Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Deputy contenders woo MPs Brown rivals delay bid decision Blair will stand down on 27 June Prescott quits as deputy leader Q&A: What happens now? In depth: Blair's legacy From rebellious schoolboy to global statesman. Would Brown be right for PM? Who would make the best leader of the Labour Party? None of the above Results are indicative and may not reflect public opinion The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Labour deputy hopefuls woo MPs SNP and Greens sign working deal MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/world/africa/6645715.stm	BBC NEWS | World | Africa | UN to decide on Zimbabwe key role Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 22:44 GMT 23:44 UK E-mail this to a friend UN to decide on Zimbabwe key role Mr Chidyausiku says the row is a storm in a teacup The United Nations is due to decide whether Zimbabwe should lead one of its key bodies, despite objections from Western countries. African nations have nominated Zimbabwe to head the Commission on Sustainable Development (CSD), a move which has met with widespread disapproval. Some countries say Zimbabwe's high inflation, unemployment and rights record make it an unsuitable candidate. But Zimbabwe has dismissed such criticism, calling it an insult. "What has sustainable development to do with human rights?" Zimbabwe's ambassador to the UN told the BBC. The position traditionally rotates through the regions of the world, with Africa next in line. European countries in particular are calling on African nations to put forward another candidate. Zimbabwe's ambassador to the UN, Boniface Chidyausiku, said his country was entitled to hold the chairmanship. When they tell the African group to change, it's an insult to our intelligence "It's our right. We're members of the United Nations and we're members of CSD, and the Africa group did make a decision and endorsed Zimbabwe," he told the BBC's Network Africa programme. "They're making a storm out of a teacup." He said the real objection came down to Britain's criticism of Zimbabwe's controversial land reform programme. Zimbabwe's food production has plummeted since land reforms in 2000 that saw thousands of white-owned farms seized. "We see it as a translation of a bilateral quarrel between London and Harare on the land reform programme," Mr Chidyausiku said. He said the European countries should respect the decision of the African block. "When they tell the African group to change, it's an insult to our intelligence - that we Africans can't think," he said. Meanwhile, Mozambique has threatened to cut electricity to its neighbour for failing to pay its debts. Mozambique's Cahora Bassa dam supplies Zimbabwe with 500 megawatts of power. The BBC's Jose Tembe in Maputo says Zimbabwe has accumulated debt to the tune of $9m. A spokesman for Mozambique's electricity firm EDM said the government acknowledged Zimbabwe's current economic crisis but said that debt is debt and must be paid. On Wednesday, it was announced that households in Zimbabwe were to be limited to four hours' electricity a day, between 1700 and 2100 local time. E-mail this to a friend VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS Zimbabwe's UN ambassador speaks out about the row ZIMBABWE: A NATION IN CRISIS Born free: Life under Mugabe Forty years of schooling Mugabe's hold over Africa Bloggers turn up heat 'Zimbabwe is still working' How far would you go to put food on the table? Where are Zimbabweans going? What next for Zimbabwe? United Nations Division for Sustainable Development The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites UN to decide on Zimbabwe key role Guinea soldiers suspend protest Africa air staff 'being poached' MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/africa/6645715.stm	BBC NEWS | World | Africa | UN to decide on Zimbabwe key role Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 22:44 GMT 23:44 UK E-mail this to a friend UN to decide on Zimbabwe key role Mr Chidyausiku says the row is a storm in a teacup The United Nations is due to decide whether Zimbabwe should lead one of its key bodies, despite objections from Western countries. African nations have nominated Zimbabwe to head the Commission on Sustainable Development (CSD), a move which has met with widespread disapproval. Some countries say Zimbabwe's high inflation, unemployment and rights record make it an unsuitable candidate. But Zimbabwe has dismissed such criticism, calling it an insult. "What has sustainable development to do with human rights?" Zimbabwe's ambassador to the UN told the BBC. The position traditionally rotates through the regions of the world, with Africa next in line. European countries in particular are calling on African nations to put forward another candidate. Zimbabwe's ambassador to the UN, Boniface Chidyausiku, said his country was entitled to hold the chairmanship. When they tell the African group to change, it's an insult to our intelligence "It's our right. We're members of the United Nations and we're members of CSD, and the Africa group did make a decision and endorsed Zimbabwe," he told the BBC's Network Africa programme. "They're making a storm out of a teacup." He said the real objection came down to Britain's criticism of Zimbabwe's controversial land reform programme. Zimbabwe's food production has plummeted since land reforms in 2000 that saw thousands of white-owned farms seized. "We see it as a translation of a bilateral quarrel between London and Harare on the land reform programme," Mr Chidyausiku said. He said the European countries should respect the decision of the African block. "When they tell the African group to change, it's an insult to our intelligence - that we Africans can't think," he said. Meanwhile, Mozambique has threatened to cut electricity to its neighbour for failing to pay its debts. Mozambique's Cahora Bassa dam supplies Zimbabwe with 500 megawatts of power. The BBC's Jose Tembe in Maputo says Zimbabwe has accumulated debt to the tune of $9m. A spokesman for Mozambique's electricity firm EDM said the government acknowledged Zimbabwe's current economic crisis but said that debt is debt and must be paid. On Wednesday, it was announced that households in Zimbabwe were to be limited to four hours' electricity a day, between 1700 and 2100 local time. E-mail this to a friend VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS Zimbabwe's UN ambassador speaks out about the row ZIMBABWE: A NATION IN CRISIS Born free: Life under Mugabe Forty years of schooling Mugabe's hold over Africa Bloggers turn up heat 'Zimbabwe is still working' How far would you go to put food on the table? Where are Zimbabweans going? What next for Zimbabwe? United Nations Division for Sustainable Development The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites UN to decide on Zimbabwe key role Guinea soldiers suspend protest Africa air staff 'being poached' MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/world/asia-pacific/6644151.stm	BBC NEWS | World | Asia-Pacific | Koreas agree cross-border train Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 11:58 GMT 12:58 UK E-mail this to a friend Koreas agree cross-border train The South wants to secure future border crossings North and South Korea have ended four days of high-level military talks with agreement on cross-border train tests and the disputed western sea border. In a joint statement the two sides said they had agreed to provide security guarantees for a rail test-run across the border planned for next week. They also agreed to create a joint fishing zone in the West Sea, the scene of bloody naval clashes in the past. Analysts say the deal is a significant breakthrough for the two Koreas. South Korea has long sought security guarantees from the North for a train to cross the heavily fortified border. The test-run, scheduled for 17 May, will see the first such crossing since rail links between the two were severed during the 1950-53 Korean War. Tracks have been reconnected - alongside roads - as part of recent reconciliation projects. "The two sides have decided to discuss the issue of adopting a statement of agreement on military security for the operations of railways and roads," the joint statement said. If the test goes ahead, a train will cross from the North on the east coast and another will cross from the South on the west coast, officials said. They will travel about 25km (16 miles) and terminate their journeys a few kilometres inside the opposite territory. However, the north has resisted demands to allow further crossings after that. The talks by generals in the truce village of Panmunjom were extended into a fourth day so they could seek a resolution to the disputed maritime border, Yonhap news agency reported. Pyongyang does not recognise the border drawn by the United Nations at the end of the Korean War, which has resulted in naval clashes over the rich fishing grounds. Previous talks on cross-border trains have collapsed because of the North's insistence that the sea border issue be discussed. "The two sides have shared the view that preventing military conflict and creating a joint fishing zone in the West Sea is an issue to be urgently resolved in the course of easing military tension and establishing peace," Friday's joint statement read. This is the latest in a series of relationships that have slowly been re-established between the two sides in recent years, as the South has sought to engage with the secretive neighbour it is still technically at war with. A rail link would bring advantages to both sides. For South Korea, it would mean easily transporting goods produced using cheap North Korean labour. Seoul hopes one day to connect its rail network to the Trans-Siberian railway, which runs from China through to Europe. The line would boost tourism for the North by providing a link to a mountain resort on the east coast popular with South Koreans. E-mail this to a friend NORTH KOREA: SECRETIVE STATE US to give North Korea more time No outcry as deadline goes North Korea sacks prime minister Macau unblocks N Korean funds From atom to bomb What does it take to make a nuclear weapon? A Guide to North Korea Q&A: N Korea nuclear stand-off Images from inside secretive North Korea Diary of N Korea visit Holidays in North Korea History of the Korean War N Korea: Queries answered Nuclear deal: Readers' views North Korean news agency South Korean premier's office The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Koreas agree cross-border train 'New proof' of Japan sex slaves Ramos-Horta 'wins E Timor poll' MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/business/6645625.stm	BBC NEWS | Business | Yukos final assets fetch $3.9bn Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 11:28 GMT 12:28 UK E-mail this to a friend Yukos final assets fetch $3.9bn The sale price of the headquarters exceeded expectations The last assets of Russia's bankrupt oil company Yukos, including its HQ, have been sold to little-known firm Paran for 100bn roubles ($3.9bn; £2bn). The company outbid state-run Rosneft - the expected winner - by offering four times the opening bid. The move marks the end of once-dominant Yukos, whose assets are being sold to pay off $26bn in tax bills imposed after fraud investigations. On Thursday, an offshoot of Rosneft bought Yukos' last production assets. Rosneft bought the last outstanding refining and production asset of Yukos - Samaraneftegaz - at auction for 165.5bn roubles. The starting price at Friday's auction which included the 22-storey Moscow headquarters, as well as various subsidiary outfits, had been 22bn roubles. It had been widely thought Rosneft - which has been buying up Yukos assets for several years - would buy the headquarters. By buying Yukos assets including its three main production units -Yuganskneftegaz, Tomskneft and Samaraneftegaz - Rosneft now owns more than 40% of Russia's oil production. Thursday also saw 537 Yukos petrol stations sold at an auction, to energy firm Yuniteks. As well as facing huge debts, Yukos former chief executive and founder Mikhail Khodorkovsky was jailed for tax evasion. Yukos has argued that the tax demands made by the government were tied to a political campaign against Mr Khodorkovsky, who is currently serving an eight-year prison sentence in Siberia. Russia's government started breaking up Yukos in 2003 after Mr Khodorkovsky was sent to prison. E-mail this to a friend VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS Bankruptcy supervisor speaks of surprise at the auction THE BATTLE OVER YUKOS Rosneft wins first Yukos auction Court imprisons Yukos duo Yukos auction date set for March Yukos loses its bankruptcy appeal Russian probe into Yukos bosses Yukos declared bankrupt by court Boss quits post at troubled Yukos Creditors vote to bankrupt Yukos Rosneft earnings up on Yukos oil Russian tycoon in Siberian jail Yukos and the geopolitics of oil Russia's richest man has fallen foul of the Kremlin and politics. Their risky routes to riches Q&A: The battle for Yukos A blessing in disguise? Timeline: Yukos' rise and fall In Siberia with Yukos The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Inflation 'pushing up pay deals' People 'pay less into pensions' Postal workers to vote on strikes MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/uk/6646537.stm	BBC NEWS | UK | 11 Menezes police face no action Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 13:57 GMT 14:57 UK E-mail this to a friend 11 Menezes police face no action Mr Menezes was mistaken for a suicide bomber Eleven officers involved in the shooting of Brazilian Jean Charles de Menezes will not face disciplinary action, the police watchdog has said. They were among 15 Metropolitan Police officers interviewed by the Independent Police Complaints Commission (IPCC). Decisions have not been made on the four most senior officers investigated. The family of Mr Menezes - shot eight times at Stockwell Tube station after being mistaken for a suicide bomber - said the decision was "disgraceful". The 27-year-old was killed on 22 July 2005, one day after the failed London bombings. The IPCC said a surveillance officer, one of the 11 not facing disciplinary action, would be given "management advice" in relation to action he took after the shooting. It is a travesty of justice and another slap in the face for our family Patricia da Silva Armani, Mr Menezes' cousin It said a decision on whether the four commanders and tactical advisers investigated should be disciplined would be made after the end of court proceedings. The Crown Prosecution Service previously found no evidence to warrant the prosecution of any individual over the shooting of Mr Menezes, an electrician. However, Scotland Yard is facing prosecution under health and safety laws over the incident. The trial is due to start in October. Patricia da Silva Armani, Mr Menezes' cousin, said: "It is a travesty of justice and another slap in the face for our family. "The police officers' lives go on as normal while we exist in turmoil, fighting to get the answers and justice we deserve." The Justice4Jean Campaign questioned the decision to clear the officers before the health and safety case is brought. "This is entirely premature and, worse still, may potentially prejudice any future criminal proceedings," a spokesman said. The grief and anger of his family is entirely understandable and - as I have been powerfully reminded - remains unassuaged IPCC chairman Nick Hardwick "This sends out the signal that no action against officers will ever be taken in this case, which is devastating for the family." The Menezes family said they believed there were grounds for gross negligence manslaughter criminal charges against the four senior officers. A spokeswoman, speaking on their behalf, said: "We hope ultimately that all the officers about whom evidence emerges of wrongdoing that led to this wrongful death are ultimately rendered fully accountable," the spokeswoman added. The IPCC's chairman, Nick Hardwick, said he understood the feelings of Mr Menezes' family. "The grief and anger of his family is entirely understandable and - as I have been powerfully reminded - remains unassuaged," he said. "I would not do anything lightly that adds to that grief or anger." But he said although Mr Menezes was "entirely innocent" there was "no realistic prospect" of disciplinary charges being upheld against the firearms or surveillance officers involved, including the two officers directly responsible for the fatal shooting . They were facing the "challenge" of the wake of the 7/7 London bombings, he added. The human rights group, Liberty, condemned the delay in deciding whether the more senior officers should be punished. The Metropolitan Police welcomed the IPCC recommendation but said the shooting of Mr Menezes was "a matter of very deep regret" to the service and said its thoughts were "with his family". A spokesman added: "There is no doubt that the events of July 2005 brought significant challenges to the Met and during this time many officers operated under difficult and dangerous conditions to protect London and Londoners." E-mail this to a friend VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS The Menezes' family solicitor on their "shock" Get the latest breaking news delivered to your desktop or mobile device Met not guilty plea over Menezes Menezes inquest will be delayed Police delay plea in Menezes case Vigil to mark anniversary No charges for Menezes officers Clickable guide to the shooting Mr Menezes' relatives protest at decision against charges Anger in Brazilian hometown Profile: Jean Charles de Menezes Young Brazilians fleeing poverty Profile: Sir Ian Blair Menezes decision: Your reaction Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Madeleine parents 'won't give up' 11 Menezes police face no action MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/asia-pacific/6644151.stm	BBC NEWS | World | Asia-Pacific | Koreas agree cross-border train Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 11:58 GMT 12:58 UK E-mail this to a friend Koreas agree cross-border train The South wants to secure future border crossings North and South Korea have ended four days of high-level military talks with agreement on cross-border train tests and the disputed western sea border. In a joint statement the two sides said they had agreed to provide security guarantees for a rail test-run across the border planned for next week. They also agreed to create a joint fishing zone in the West Sea, the scene of bloody naval clashes in the past. Analysts say the deal is a significant breakthrough for the two Koreas. South Korea has long sought security guarantees from the North for a train to cross the heavily fortified border. The test-run, scheduled for 17 May, will see the first such crossing since rail links between the two were severed during the 1950-53 Korean War. Tracks have been reconnected - alongside roads - as part of recent reconciliation projects. "The two sides have decided to discuss the issue of adopting a statement of agreement on military security for the operations of railways and roads," the joint statement said. If the test goes ahead, a train will cross from the North on the east coast and another will cross from the South on the west coast, officials said. They will travel about 25km (16 miles) and terminate their journeys a few kilometres inside the opposite territory. However, the north has resisted demands to allow further crossings after that. The talks by generals in the truce village of Panmunjom were extended into a fourth day so they could seek a resolution to the disputed maritime border, Yonhap news agency reported. Pyongyang does not recognise the border drawn by the United Nations at the end of the Korean War, which has resulted in naval clashes over the rich fishing grounds. Previous talks on cross-border trains have collapsed because of the North's insistence that the sea border issue be discussed. "The two sides have shared the view that preventing military conflict and creating a joint fishing zone in the West Sea is an issue to be urgently resolved in the course of easing military tension and establishing peace," Friday's joint statement read. This is the latest in a series of relationships that have slowly been re-established between the two sides in recent years, as the South has sought to engage with the secretive neighbour it is still technically at war with. A rail link would bring advantages to both sides. For South Korea, it would mean easily transporting goods produced using cheap North Korean labour. Seoul hopes one day to connect its rail network to the Trans-Siberian railway, which runs from China through to Europe. The line would boost tourism for the North by providing a link to a mountain resort on the east coast popular with South Koreans. E-mail this to a friend NORTH KOREA: SECRETIVE STATE US to give North Korea more time No outcry as deadline goes North Korea sacks prime minister Macau unblocks N Korean funds From atom to bomb What does it take to make a nuclear weapon? A Guide to North Korea Q&A: N Korea nuclear stand-off Images from inside secretive North Korea Diary of N Korea visit Holidays in North Korea History of the Korean War N Korea: Queries answered Nuclear deal: Readers' views North Korean news agency South Korean premier's office The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Koreas agree cross-border train 'New proof' of Japan sex slaves Ramos-Horta 'wins E Timor poll' MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/uk_politics/6645465.stm	BBC NEWS | Politics | Last goodbye for Blair and Chirac Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 19:32 GMT 20:32 UK E-mail this to a friend Last goodbye for Blair and Chirac Mr Blair met Jacques Chirac and his successor Nicolas Sarkozy Outgoing British Prime Minister Tony Blair has visited Paris to say farewell to outgoing French president and political adversary, Jacques Chirac. Mr Blair and Mr Chirac have disagreed regularly on EU matters over the years but greeted each other warmly on the Elysee Palace steps. Their biggest falling out came when Mr Blair allied with Washington over Iraq. Mr Blair also held talks with French President-elect Nicolas Sarkozy, who takes power on 16 May. The meeting was Mr Sarkozy's first with a foreign leader and was followed by a private dinner. During the talks they were joined by Francois Fillon, expected to be named next week as Mr Sarkozy's prime minister, and British ambassador to France, Peter Westmacott. Speaking after the meeting Mr Sarkozy said he had been "very impressed" by Mr Blair's decade in office. He said it was not the length of his time in office which was impressive but what he had achieved. On one of his last visits to Britain, Mr Sarkozy visited a job centre to see how the UK dealt with unemployment. I am tempted to say that Sarkozy is currently the most successful Blairite around BBC Europe editor Mark Mardell Europe diary: Blair's friends He has made the fight against joblessness his top priority for France. The main subject of Mr Blair and Mr Sarkozy's talks was Europe and the future of the EU Constitutional Treaty - which France scuppered by voting against, in its referendum two years ago. Mr Sarkozy wants, instead, a pragmatic form of mini-treaty, pared down to its bare essentials, to be voted through national parliaments rather than risk another referendum. However, Britain and France still disagree on some areas, not least over Turkish membership of the EU, which Britain favours and Mr Sarkozy remains firmly against. A government official said there had been "common ground" between the two men during the talks. The German Chancellor, Angela Merkel, is working on a roadmap towards a new treaty to be discussed at the European Council meeting in late June. She is not expected to meet the new French president for talks until after 16 May. E-mail this to a friend Nick Assinder on what Gordon Brown might do in the top job Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Deputy contenders woo MPs Brown rivals delay bid decision Blair will stand down on 27 June Prescott quits as deputy leader Q&A: What happens now? In depth: Blair's legacy From rebellious schoolboy to global statesman. Would Brown be right for PM? Who would make the best leader of the Labour Party? None of the above Results are indicative and may not reflect public opinion Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Labour deputy hopefuls woo MPs SNP and Greens sign working deal MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/africa/6647195.stm	BBC NEWS | World | Africa | Guinea soldiers suspend protest Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 16:19 GMT 17:19 UK E-mail this to a friend Guinea soldiers suspend protest Soldiers say they were promised a pay rise after a 1996 army mutiny Soldiers in Guinea who marched on the capital have agreed to return to barracks after the president promised to meet them about their unpaid wages. The meeting is scheduled for Saturday and comes after a week of army unrest. A BBC correspondent in Conakry says there has been an air of panic in the city as soldiers took to the streets firing shots in the air. On Thursday, a civilian was shot dead and eight injured when soldiers opened fire in the southern town of Gueckedou. The protests began last week when the soldiers alleged President Lansana Conte had gone back on his pledge to increase their wages after an army mutiny in 1996. Guinea was the scene of violent protests earlier this year as people called for the ailing president to step down. A three-week general strike ended after a military crackdown and the appointment of a consensus prime minister. The BBC's Alhassan Sillah in Conakry says the situation remains very tense. [Prime Minister] Kouyate cannot solve the situation by asking the bank to print some money The soldiers marched into the city centre to the army headquarters. Shops and market stalls closed as people rushed to get home and pick their children up from school. At the height of the stand-off, two government radio stations went off air. There were also reports of disturbances in Kindia and Mamou in the east and Macenta in the south. Last week, a spokesman for the aggrieved soldiers told the BBC they wanted their promised 11-year salary arrears paid. He also said they wanted the resignation of senior military officials including the army chief, Gen Kelfala Camara, and the new Defence Minister, Arafan Camara. Guinea analyst Gilles Yabi, from the International Crisis Group, says these events do not come as a surprise. The deal emerged after days of intense negotiation "Even in the middle of demonstrations in January and February there were signs of discontent within the military... it was not connected to the political situation, it was really because of their conditions," he told the BBC's Focus on Africa programme. "The soldiers want to be rewarded for the loyalty they've maintained towards President Lansana Conte," he said. But Mr Yabi said it puts the new prime minister, Lansana Kouyate, in a very difficult position. He was appointed to curb inflation and bring in badly needed economic reforms. "That means that Kouyate cannot solve the situation by asking the bank to print some money," Mr Yabi said. Although Guinea's mineral wealth makes it potentially one of Africa's richest countries, its people are among the poorest in West Africa. Mr Conte seized power in a bloodless coup in 1984 and in 2003 won a third term in a poll boycotted by the opposition. E-mail this to a friend 'I'm afraid for Guinea' Protest clashes in pictures 'Two people shot before my eyes' Guinea's strongman Lansana Conte starts to feel the heat Q&A: State of siege Inside the power vacuum Taking control of mineral wealth Voices on the crisis The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites UN to decide on Zimbabwe key role Guinea soldiers suspend protest Africa air staff 'being poached' MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/programmes/from_our_own_correspondent/6625393.stm	BBC NEWS | Programmes | From Our Own Correspondent | Making a public splash in Saudi Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Saturday, 5 May 2007, 11:03 GMT 12:03 UK E-mail this to a friend Making a public splash in Saudi BBC News, Saudi Arabia A new university for women is opening in Riyadh - yet Saudi Arabia remains a country where women cannot vote, drive, dress as they like or go where they please. The women of Saudi Arabia are not just folded away behind swathes of hot black cloth - they live segregated lives When I moved to the Middle East six months ago, I knew I would have to bid farewell to my arms and legs. But I was happy to be working in the region, so I did not resent having to put my skirts and dresses into storage. But as I prepared for my first trip to Saudi Arabia, I was bristling at the thought of having to wear an abaya - the all-enveloping black cloak that turns the women of the Gulf into mournful ghosts. Perhaps that is why I called the hotel before I arrived, to ask a question I already knew the answer to - will I be able to use the swimming pool? The response was a small silence, and then an embarrassed laugh. "Er, No madam. The pool is, of course, for men only. I am so sorry." I have to congratulate you, Madam, I think you are the first woman to swim in public in all Saudi Arabia The women of Saudi Arabia are not just folded away behind swathes of hot black cloth, they live segregated lives, ushered out of the all-male public spaces into so called "family" areas, escorted everywhere by husbands or male relatives, and expected to ask for male permission to travel. So the idea of women swimming in public was laughable. Undeterred, I wrote a slightly uppity e-mail to the manager of the hotel, protesting that whatever discrimination I expected in the country, I didn't expect it in an international hotel, and asking how he could justify charging me the same price for a lesser service. I suggested that he could arrange a single sex time for women to swim. I even offered to swim in my abaya. To my surprise, he agreed to my request. The pool would be mine between six and seven in the morning. So, wishing I had someone to witness me swimming in cloak and goggles, I arrived for my swim, at dawn. The night manager of the leisure centre, Walid, was waiting for me, in a state of nervous excitement. "Good morning Madam," he said. "We have everything ready for you. We have cordoned off the pool, placed screens all around." "So if you have everything you need I shall lock you out here so that you won't be disturbed." He paused for a moment with his keys, and fixed me with a conspiratorial look. "I have to congratulate you, Madam, I think you are the first woman to swim in public in all Saudi Arabia!" Saudi leaders say women will be allowed to vote in 2009 I grinned. "A small revolution?" I asked. "No a big revolution. I don't think you realise how big," he said, shaking his head in amazement. "So since you've screened it all off, does that mean I don't have to wear an abaya?" I asked. "You can wear what you want," he said, smiling, "No-one can see you." I didn't feel this was the moment to point out that I was swimming in the open air, at the foot of the tallest building in the country. There was a 41-storey skyscraper looking down upon this scandal. I couldn't help but gaze up at it between lengths, and giggle. Later that day I met an impressive woman of the Gulf called Haya Rashed al Khalifa. Haya is one of Bahrain's first female lawyers, and currently the President of the United Nations General Assembly. She was in Riyadh to address a gathering of Arab heads of state; an unusual occasion in a region where female politicians are still an unfamiliar sight. The first nationwide elections only took place here two years ago. Women were not allowed to vote, let alone stand as candidates. But Haya told the rows of men seated in front of her that they could not avoid change any longer. The right to swim comes a long way down the list of demands of the women in Saudi Arabia - well below the right to vote, or the right to drive a car It was time, she told the Arab leaders, that they recognised that women are part of the human race. Meeting Haya later, I told her I was struck by her optimism. This repression of women, she told me, is not about Islam. It is about culture. Just look at how interpretations of Islam shift with geography. The closer countries are to other civilisations - the more progressive they are. Take Tunisia, in North Africa, where women have had full rights for 50 years. The tides of change have now reached the Gulf. I told her about my small ripple at the hotel. Her jaw dropped. "You asked to swim in Saudi Arabia? Young lady," she said, "that is more of a breakthrough than mine!" It wasn't of course. The right to swim comes a long way down the list of demands of the women in Saudi Arabia - well below the right to vote, or the right to drive a car. But the Saudi leaders are beginning to address that list. They have said that women will be allowed to vote in the local elections of 2009. If they keep their promise, that will be a revolution. The women voters might still be hidden beneath abayas, but they surely won't be expected to bring their male escorts into the voting booths. Will they? From Our Own Correspondent was broadcast on Saturday 5 May April, 2007 at 1130 GMT on BBC Radio 4. Please check the for World Service transmission times. E-mail this to a friend Personal reflections by BBC correspondents around the world SEARCH FROM OUR OWN CORRESPONDENT: Three Ways to Listen From Our Own Correspondent Country profile: Saudi Arabia 20 Apr 07 | Country profiles 20 Apr 07 | Country profiles Saudi Arabia Information Resource (government run) The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/world/middle_east/6645929.stm	BBC NEWS | World | Middle East | Clashes follow new Gaza operation Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 10:25 GMT 11:25 UK E-mail this to a friend Clashes follow new Gaza operation Soldiers from both main rival factions have deployed in Gaza Clashes in the Gaza Strip have left six Palestinians wounded, a day after a major security operation began aimed at try to curb violence and lawlessness. Hundreds of troops, some loyal to rival factions Hamas and Fatah, fanned out on the streets of Gaza on Thursday. Up to 400 people have died in clashes between Palestinian factions since the Islamist Hamas won last year's parliamentary elections. But the rival parties agreed to form a coalition government earlier this year. On Friday, a number of Palestinians, including civilians and security officers from forces controlled by Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas, were wounded in shootouts in Gaza City. A further two civilians were hurt when militants from the armed wing of Hamas opened fire in the Jabaliya refugee camp north of Gaza City, the AFP news agency reported. The circumstances surrounding this incident are not clear. Since the Israeli withdrawal from Gaza in 2005, the strip has seen a wave of infighting, armed robberies, deadly family feuds and kidnappings. Several attempts to halt the violence have failed, and the interior minister in the new Palestinian coalition government, Hani Qawasmi, has threatened to resign because he says his plan for restoring security has not been carried out. As many as 3,000 police were reported to have taken part in the initial operations launched on Thursday, the Associated Press reported. One official told the AFP news agency that troops took up positions in the north of Gaza at entrances to towns and at major road junctions. Witnesses said that security personnel were inspecting vehicles on the approach to Gaza City and asking passengers to show their identity cards. Officials said that forces loyal to Fatah and Hamas would now wear the same police uniform and answer to the interior ministry, which has been placed under the control of Mr Qawasmi, a political independent in the coalition government. The full details of the security plan are not known. The first phase was set to last 100 days and to cover traffic and crime fighting, the Associated Press said. E-mail this to a friend Rival groups join forces in Gaza BBC's Johnston wins press award Hamas told to axe children's show MPs back beleaguered Israeli PM Israelis across the political spectrum unite at an anti-Olmert rally in Tel Aviv Wave of discontent in Israel Gulf in Mid-East narratives Timeline: Alan Johnston missing Israeli views on Halutz TOP MIDDLE EAST STORIES Clashes follow new Gaza operation Iraq leader says troops must stay New Jerusalem settlement planned MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/middle_east/6645777.stm	BBC NEWS | World | Middle East | New Jerusalem settlement planned Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 09:25 GMT 10:25 UK E-mail this to a friend New Jerusalem settlement planned Settlements cut off East Jerusalem from the occupied West Bank The Israeli authorities are planning to build three new Jewish neighbourhoods in East Jerusalem, an area regarded as occupied land under international law. The plan, which has yet to receive final approval, would involve building about 20,000 homes. The Palestinian chief negotiator, Saeb Erekat, said the plan destroyed efforts to re-start the peace process. He said Israel had to choose between settlements or peace, but could not have both. Yehoshua Pollak, Jerusalem's deputy mayor, said the intention was to create a contiguous Jewish residential area linking East Jerusalem with major West Bank settlement blocs. Israel has occupied East Jerusalem since 1967. It annexed the area in 1981 and sees it as its exclusive domain. This has not been recognised by the international community. Palestinians hope to establish the capital of their future state in the East Jerusalem. E-mail this to a friend Rival groups join forces in Gaza BBC's Johnston wins press award Hamas told to axe children's show MPs back beleaguered Israeli PM Israelis across the political spectrum unite at an anti-Olmert rally in Tel Aviv Wave of discontent in Israel Gulf in Mid-East narratives Timeline: Alan Johnston missing Israeli views on Halutz TOP MIDDLE EAST STORIES Clashes follow new Gaza operation Iraq leader says troops must stay New Jerusalem settlement planned MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/programmes/from_our_own_correspondent/6639233.stm	BBC NEWS | Programmes | From Our Own Correspondent | Blair passes on his African vision Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Thursday, 10 May 2007, 11:07 GMT 12:07 UK E-mail this to a friend Blair passes on his African vision One of Tony Blair's biggest concerns has been the plight of Africa which he once famously described as a scar on the conscience of the world. The Africa Commission Report set out ideas for combating poverty There is a large yellow book on the top shelf of my bookcase. It is more than 450 pages in length, and I dip into it from time to time, whenever I need facts and information about Africa. It is the report that was drawn up by Tony Blair's Commission for Africa, two years ago. On the back cover, there is a photograph of the 17 commissioners - Tony Blair is in the middle of the front row. On his right-hand side, he is flanked by Gordon Brown and Bob Geldof. The Africa Commission was full of promise. The report starts with these words: "African poverty and stagnation is the greatest tragedy of our time. Poverty on such a scale demands a forceful response." Mr Blair, and those appointed to help him, wanted new ideas and action for a strong and prosperous Africa. And so, during the course of 2004 and 2005, the prime minister set about the task of trying to galvanise the rest of the world. Appropriately, the process began in Addis Ababa - the continent's diplomatic capital - where Emperor Haile Selassie and some of Africa's founding fathers created the Organisation of African Unity, back in 1963. Mr Blair spent time with villagers in Debre Zeit near Addis Ababa Mr Blair arrived there on a soaking wet October day, two and a half years ago, and was immediately taken by road to see a small project supporting orphaned children at Debre Zeit - an hour's drive from Addis. He was invited to sit on the grass in a field, encircled by the children who had come to entertain him with a traditional Ethiopian song. This was the prime minister rolling up his sleeves and getting a rare chance to find out what life is like in Africa's most deprived communities. He met an HIV-positive mother, who had been facing near-certain death. But the woman told Mr Blair how she had been given help, was now running a business and supporting her family. This, said Mr Blair, was what Africans needed - not just a hand-out of aid, but a helping hand to allow them to help themselves. The Blair visit to Ethiopia was all too brief. I wished he could have seen so much more - for this is a nation that epitomises so many of Africa's problems: extreme poverty, rapid population growth, abuses of human rights... And of course, Ethiopia - with its dramatic landscape - is a country that lies in a rough neighbourhood - the conflict-prone Horn of Africa. It was Bob Geldof who helped to put Ethiopia on the map two decades ago. In some Ethiopian villages time appears to have stood still So much has changed since the war-driven famine of 1984, but some things remain the same. And so, if he had stayed longer, I would have wanted Tony Blair to have taken the road that leads up the slopes of Entoto Mountain on the northern side of Addis Ababa. Here, the 4x4s and the battered old Addis taxis jostle for space with herds of goats and donkeys. But what you also see are women and young girls hunched over as they carry back-breaking loads of firewood from the eucalyptus trees on the mountainside. On foot, it is a long and arduous trek down into the city. And it is a medieval image - completely at odds with Tony Blair's vision of a modern, reformed Africa. It always serves as a reminder to me that it is going to take more than a few promises from the leaders of the Group of Eight industrialised nations to change the way of life here. I have never doubted Tony Blair's sincerity and commitment to Africa, but there is no question that he took on a gargantuan task when he sought to forge a new partnership between Africa and the developed world. Africa is full of surprises that can always throw a spanner or two in the works. The gap between Blair and Meles indicated a strained relationship The last time I saw the prime minister in this part of the world was at what was described as "a progressive governance summit", a small meeting of like-minded centre-left leaders who had gathered at an incongruous location - a small South African game park, north of Pretoria. At the news conference afterwards, Tony Blair was joined by - among others - the presidents of South Africa and Brazil. But Mr Blair had the misfortune - at the time - to find himself sitting next to Ethiopian Prime Minister Meles Zenawi, his erstwhile friend and member of the Commission for Africa. Only, Prime Minister Meles had - during 2005 - locked up members of the Ethiopian opposition after unrest following disputed elections. Another blow perhaps, to the "African Renaissance"? The body language between Blair and Meles, and the rather noticeable gap between their chairs at the news conference seemed to reveal a strained relationship. So now - in all likelihood - it is Gordon Brown who will take on some of the responsibility of keeping Africa on the world agenda. He has already done his fair share of cajoling at international finance ministers' meetings. And he has had some hands-on experience of the challenges in Kenya, Tanzania and Mozambique. But he may want to consider the words of one activist I spoke to this week, who said: "The battle against poverty is a marathon, not a sprint." From Our Own Correspondent was broadcast on Thursday, 9 May, 2007 at 1100 GMT on BBC Radio 4. Please check the for World Service transmission times. E-mail this to a friend THE BLAIR YEARS 1997-2007 From rebellious schoolboy to global statesman Blair will stand down on 27 June Key quotes from the Blair speech In quotes: Global reaction Prescott quits as deputy leader Deputy contenders claim support Q&A: Blair's exit plans How will history judge Blair? Three expert views on the PM's legacy The message in Blair's speech Being the prime minister's wife Blair years in statistics Robinson's verdict on Blair Highs and lows of the Blair era Blair's Cabinet of '97 Timeline: The Blair Years Blair: In his own words How others portrayed Blair How will he be remembered? The day I met Tony Blair England reacts to PM's departure What next for Blair? In his own words Decade at the top MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/programmes/from_our_own_correspondent/6625393.stm	BBC NEWS | Programmes | From Our Own Correspondent | Making a public splash in Saudi Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Saturday, 5 May 2007, 11:03 GMT 12:03 UK E-mail this to a friend Making a public splash in Saudi BBC News, Saudi Arabia A new university for women is opening in Riyadh - yet Saudi Arabia remains a country where women cannot vote, drive, dress as they like or go where they please. The women of Saudi Arabia are not just folded away behind swathes of hot black cloth - they live segregated lives When I moved to the Middle East six months ago, I knew I would have to bid farewell to my arms and legs. But I was happy to be working in the region, so I did not resent having to put my skirts and dresses into storage. But as I prepared for my first trip to Saudi Arabia, I was bristling at the thought of having to wear an abaya - the all-enveloping black cloak that turns the women of the Gulf into mournful ghosts. Perhaps that is why I called the hotel before I arrived, to ask a question I already knew the answer to - will I be able to use the swimming pool? The response was a small silence, and then an embarrassed laugh. "Er, No madam. The pool is, of course, for men only. I am so sorry." I have to congratulate you, Madam, I think you are the first woman to swim in public in all Saudi Arabia The women of Saudi Arabia are not just folded away behind swathes of hot black cloth, they live segregated lives, ushered out of the all-male public spaces into so called "family" areas, escorted everywhere by husbands or male relatives, and expected to ask for male permission to travel. So the idea of women swimming in public was laughable. Undeterred, I wrote a slightly uppity e-mail to the manager of the hotel, protesting that whatever discrimination I expected in the country, I didn't expect it in an international hotel, and asking how he could justify charging me the same price for a lesser service. I suggested that he could arrange a single sex time for women to swim. I even offered to swim in my abaya. To my surprise, he agreed to my request. The pool would be mine between six and seven in the morning. So, wishing I had someone to witness me swimming in cloak and goggles, I arrived for my swim, at dawn. The night manager of the leisure centre, Walid, was waiting for me, in a state of nervous excitement. "Good morning Madam," he said. "We have everything ready for you. We have cordoned off the pool, placed screens all around." "So if you have everything you need I shall lock you out here so that you won't be disturbed." He paused for a moment with his keys, and fixed me with a conspiratorial look. "I have to congratulate you, Madam, I think you are the first woman to swim in public in all Saudi Arabia!" Saudi leaders say women will be allowed to vote in 2009 I grinned. "A small revolution?" I asked. "No a big revolution. I don't think you realise how big," he said, shaking his head in amazement. "So since you've screened it all off, does that mean I don't have to wear an abaya?" I asked. "You can wear what you want," he said, smiling, "No-one can see you." I didn't feel this was the moment to point out that I was swimming in the open air, at the foot of the tallest building in the country. There was a 41-storey skyscraper looking down upon this scandal. I couldn't help but gaze up at it between lengths, and giggle. Later that day I met an impressive woman of the Gulf called Haya Rashed al Khalifa. Haya is one of Bahrain's first female lawyers, and currently the President of the United Nations General Assembly. She was in Riyadh to address a gathering of Arab heads of state; an unusual occasion in a region where female politicians are still an unfamiliar sight. The first nationwide elections only took place here two years ago. Women were not allowed to vote, let alone stand as candidates. But Haya told the rows of men seated in front of her that they could not avoid change any longer. The right to swim comes a long way down the list of demands of the women in Saudi Arabia - well below the right to vote, or the right to drive a car It was time, she told the Arab leaders, that they recognised that women are part of the human race. Meeting Haya later, I told her I was struck by her optimism. This repression of women, she told me, is not about Islam. It is about culture. Just look at how interpretations of Islam shift with geography. The closer countries are to other civilisations - the more progressive they are. Take Tunisia, in North Africa, where women have had full rights for 50 years. The tides of change have now reached the Gulf. I told her about my small ripple at the hotel. Her jaw dropped. "You asked to swim in Saudi Arabia? Young lady," she said, "that is more of a breakthrough than mine!" It wasn't of course. The right to swim comes a long way down the list of demands of the women in Saudi Arabia - well below the right to vote, or the right to drive a car. But the Saudi leaders are beginning to address that list. They have said that women will be allowed to vote in the local elections of 2009. If they keep their promise, that will be a revolution. The women voters might still be hidden beneath abayas, but they surely won't be expected to bring their male escorts into the voting booths. Will they? From Our Own Correspondent was broadcast on Saturday 5 May April, 2007 at 1130 GMT on BBC Radio 4. Please check the for World Service transmission times. E-mail this to a friend Personal reflections by BBC correspondents around the world SEARCH FROM OUR OWN CORRESPONDENT: Three Ways to Listen From Our Own Correspondent Country profile: Saudi Arabia 20 Apr 07 | Country profiles 20 Apr 07 | Country profiles Saudi Arabia Information Resource (government run) The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac
http://news.bbc.co.uk/sport1/hi/cricket/other_international/australia/6645531.stm	BBC SPORT | Cricket | International Teams | Australia | ICC pressed for Zimbabwe action Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Friday, 11 May 2007, 07:06 GMT 08:06 UK E-mail this to a friend ICC pressed for Zimbabwe action Australia last played Zimbabwe in a World Cup warm-up game in St Vincent Australian prime minister John Howard has stepped up his campaign to persuade the International Cricket Council to take action against Zimbabwe. Cricket Australia is facing a US $2m fine if it pulls out of a one-day series in Zimbabwe later this year. But Howard said: "Our over-riding objective is the tour not take place. "How long can the international cricket community go on doing things that give aid and comfort to someone who has been totally impervious to any entreaties?" The prime minister described Zimbabwe president Robert Mugabe as a "grubby dictator" who had sanctioned violence to try and silence his political opponents. "I am jammed between my distaste for the government getting involved in something like this and my even greater distaste for giving a propaganda victory to Robert Mugabe," he added. The Australian team is due to play three one-day internationals in Zimbabwe in September and the only way their governing body could escape a financial penalty for cancelling the tour would be if the decision was taken because of security concerns. The government is, however, investigating whether there would be a legal basis for it to intervene and prohibit the tour. Foreign minister Alexander Downer met officials from Cricket Australia and the players' union, the ACA, in Melbourne on Thursday. Afterwards, Cricket Australia chief James Sutherland said they understood "very clearly" the government's preference for the team not to undertake the tour. But he added: "Cricket Australia is also conscious of world cricket's requirements that each country visit all other nations regularly as part of the ICC's Future Tours Program. Cricket Australia is strongly committed to the global development of cricket." Australia last played in Zimbabwe in 2004, a tour which was boycotted by spin bowler Stuart MacGill, and he has already spoken out about this year's proposed series. The ICC, meanwhile, issued a statement earlier this week in which it claimed it was "not a party" to the Future Tours Program Agreement between the 10 full member countries. "A member that does not comply with its obligation to tour another member is subject to a penalty of a minimum of US $2m or such greater amount that the host member can prove to have lost as a result of the failure to tour. "This is not an ICC fine. It is a contractual obligation between the respective members and if a member fails to fulfil that obligation, then it would have to pay the member against which it is defaulting," the statement continued. TEST MATCH SPECIAL BLOG Yorkshire back on front foot England look to Flower to bloom Referral rule needs close scrutiny Australia may scrap Zimbabwe tour 04 May 07 | Australia Your say on Australian cricket - 606 ICC statement on tours to Zimbabwe The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites BBC PRODUCTS AND SERVICES Daily and weekly e-mails Back to top ^^ Privacy & Cookies Policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/programmes/from_our_own_correspondent/6639233.stm	BBC NEWS | Programmes | From Our Own Correspondent | Blair passes on his African vision Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Thursday, 10 May 2007, 11:07 GMT 12:07 UK E-mail this to a friend Blair passes on his African vision One of Tony Blair's biggest concerns has been the plight of Africa which he once famously described as a scar on the conscience of the world. The Africa Commission Report set out ideas for combating poverty There is a large yellow book on the top shelf of my bookcase. It is more than 450 pages in length, and I dip into it from time to time, whenever I need facts and information about Africa. It is the report that was drawn up by Tony Blair's Commission for Africa, two years ago. On the back cover, there is a photograph of the 17 commissioners - Tony Blair is in the middle of the front row. On his right-hand side, he is flanked by Gordon Brown and Bob Geldof. The Africa Commission was full of promise. The report starts with these words: "African poverty and stagnation is the greatest tragedy of our time. Poverty on such a scale demands a forceful response." Mr Blair, and those appointed to help him, wanted new ideas and action for a strong and prosperous Africa. And so, during the course of 2004 and 2005, the prime minister set about the task of trying to galvanise the rest of the world. Appropriately, the process began in Addis Ababa - the continent's diplomatic capital - where Emperor Haile Selassie and some of Africa's founding fathers created the Organisation of African Unity, back in 1963. Mr Blair spent time with villagers in Debre Zeit near Addis Ababa Mr Blair arrived there on a soaking wet October day, two and a half years ago, and was immediately taken by road to see a small project supporting orphaned children at Debre Zeit - an hour's drive from Addis. He was invited to sit on the grass in a field, encircled by the children who had come to entertain him with a traditional Ethiopian song. This was the prime minister rolling up his sleeves and getting a rare chance to find out what life is like in Africa's most deprived communities. He met an HIV-positive mother, who had been facing near-certain death. But the woman told Mr Blair how she had been given help, was now running a business and supporting her family. This, said Mr Blair, was what Africans needed - not just a hand-out of aid, but a helping hand to allow them to help themselves. The Blair visit to Ethiopia was all too brief. I wished he could have seen so much more - for this is a nation that epitomises so many of Africa's problems: extreme poverty, rapid population growth, abuses of human rights... And of course, Ethiopia - with its dramatic landscape - is a country that lies in a rough neighbourhood - the conflict-prone Horn of Africa. It was Bob Geldof who helped to put Ethiopia on the map two decades ago. In some Ethiopian villages time appears to have stood still So much has changed since the war-driven famine of 1984, but some things remain the same. And so, if he had stayed longer, I would have wanted Tony Blair to have taken the road that leads up the slopes of Entoto Mountain on the northern side of Addis Ababa. Here, the 4x4s and the battered old Addis taxis jostle for space with herds of goats and donkeys. But what you also see are women and young girls hunched over as they carry back-breaking loads of firewood from the eucalyptus trees on the mountainside. On foot, it is a long and arduous trek down into the city. And it is a medieval image - completely at odds with Tony Blair's vision of a modern, reformed Africa. It always serves as a reminder to me that it is going to take more than a few promises from the leaders of the Group of Eight industrialised nations to change the way of life here. I have never doubted Tony Blair's sincerity and commitment to Africa, but there is no question that he took on a gargantuan task when he sought to forge a new partnership between Africa and the developed world. Africa is full of surprises that can always throw a spanner or two in the works. The gap between Blair and Meles indicated a strained relationship The last time I saw the prime minister in this part of the world was at what was described as "a progressive governance summit", a small meeting of like-minded centre-left leaders who had gathered at an incongruous location - a small South African game park, north of Pretoria. At the news conference afterwards, Tony Blair was joined by - among others - the presidents of South Africa and Brazil. But Mr Blair had the misfortune - at the time - to find himself sitting next to Ethiopian Prime Minister Meles Zenawi, his erstwhile friend and member of the Commission for Africa. Only, Prime Minister Meles had - during 2005 - locked up members of the Ethiopian opposition after unrest following disputed elections. Another blow perhaps, to the "African Renaissance"? The body language between Blair and Meles, and the rather noticeable gap between their chairs at the news conference seemed to reveal a strained relationship. So now - in all likelihood - it is Gordon Brown who will take on some of the responsibility of keeping Africa on the world agenda. He has already done his fair share of cajoling at international finance ministers' meetings. And he has had some hands-on experience of the challenges in Kenya, Tanzania and Mozambique. But he may want to consider the words of one activist I spoke to this week, who said: "The battle against poverty is a marathon, not a sprint." From Our Own Correspondent was broadcast on Thursday, 9 May, 2007 at 1100 GMT on BBC Radio 4. Please check the for World Service transmission times. E-mail this to a friend THE BLAIR YEARS 1997-2007 From rebellious schoolboy to global statesman Blair will stand down on 27 June Key quotes from the Blair speech In quotes: Global reaction Prescott quits as deputy leader Deputy contenders claim support Q&A: Blair's exit plans How will history judge Blair? Three expert views on the PM's legacy The message in Blair's speech Being the prime minister's wife Blair years in statistics Robinson's verdict on Blair Highs and lows of the Blair era Blair's Cabinet of '97 Timeline: The Blair Years Blair: In his own words How others portrayed Blair How will he be remembered? The day I met Tony Blair England reacts to PM's departure What next for Blair? In his own words Decade at the top MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/americas/6645179.stm	BBC NEWS | World | Americas | Nasa unveils Hubble's successor Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 00:00 GMT 01:00 UK E-mail this to a friend Nasa unveils Hubble's successor The model of the JWST is on display in Washington DC. The US space agency Nasa has unveiled a model of a space telescope that scientists say will be able to see to the farthest reaches of the Universe. The James Webb Space Telescope (JWST) is intended to replace the ageing Hubble telescope. It will be larger than its predecessor, sit farther from Earth and have a giant mirror to enable it to see more. Officials said the JWST - named after a former Nasa administrator - was on course for launch in June 2013. The full-scale model is being displayed outside the Smithsonian National Air and Space Museum in the US capital, Washington DC. It was recently shown off in Seattle at the American Astronomical Society meeting. The $4.5bn (£2.3bn) telescope will take up a position some 1.5 million km (930,000 miles) from Earth. It will measure 24m (80ft) long by 12m (40ft) high and incorporate a hexagonal mirror 6.5m (21.3ft) in diameter, almost three times the size of Hubble's. Hubble, launched in 1990, has sent back pictures of our solar system, distant stars, and remote fledgling galaxies formed not long after the Big Bang. But scientists say the JWST will enable them to look deeper into space and even further back at the origins of the Universe. "Clearly we need a much bigger telescope to go back much further in time to see the very birth of the Universe," said Edward Weiler, director of Nasa's Goddard Space Flight Centre. Martin Mohan of Northrop Grumman, the contractor building the telescope, said that the team was making excellent progress. "There's engineering to do, but invention is done, more than six years ahead of launch," he said. When ready, the JWST will be launched by a European Ariane 5 rocket. It is expected to have a 10-year lifespan. Until then, the 17-year-old Hubble telescope will continue to do its work. Nasa plans to send astronauts on the space shuttle to service it in 2008. THE JAMES WEBB SPACE TELESCOPE JWST is named after James E Webb, Nasa Administrator during the Apollo lunar exploration era; he served from 1961 to 1968 It will be placed 1.5m km from Earth, at Lagrange Point 2, an area of gravitational balance that keeps it in a Sun-Earth line The telescope will be shaded from sunlight by a shield, enabling it to stay cold, increasing its sensitivity to infrared radiation Three principal instruments will gather images of the Universe in the infrared region of the spectrum These will yield new information about how stars and galaxies first formed a few hundred million years after the Big Bang E-mail this to a friend Telescope mirror nears completion 08 Feb 07 | Science/Nature First stars in telescope's sights 12 Jan 07 | Science/Nature Large camera delights astronomers 10 Nov 03 | Science/Nature The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Pope names Brazil's first saint UK police face no action on shooting Virginia Tech students graduating MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://www.bbc.co.uk/syndication/	BBC Headlines for your site Put the latest headlines on your website, free of charge. Whether you are an experienced webmaster, or running a website for friends and family, adding a BBC News, BBC Sport, or CBBC Headline Box is simple with our four-step process, which you can complete online. Are you eligible to sign-up? The BBC Headline Boxes are available to all public access (no intranets), UK-based sites, subject to certain criteria. Click to read the criteria. If you then wish to apply, click the 'Sign up here' button. BBC News makes most of its news sections avalable in two XML formats - RSS and BBC News XML. If you would like to discuss either of these options with a Business Development manager, please complete the form below. Please select from the options below Please enter any additional information: Please enter your e-mail address: I would like to report a problem I would like to discuss RSS/XML Privacy & Cookies Policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/world/africa/6647195.stm	BBC NEWS | World | Africa | Guinea soldiers suspend protest Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 16:19 GMT 17:19 UK E-mail this to a friend Guinea soldiers suspend protest Soldiers say they were promised a pay rise after a 1996 army mutiny Soldiers in Guinea who marched on the capital have agreed to return to barracks after the president promised to meet them about their unpaid wages. The meeting is scheduled for Saturday and comes after a week of army unrest. A BBC correspondent in Conakry says there has been an air of panic in the city as soldiers took to the streets firing shots in the air. On Thursday, a civilian was shot dead and eight injured when soldiers opened fire in the southern town of Gueckedou. The protests began last week when the soldiers alleged President Lansana Conte had gone back on his pledge to increase their wages after an army mutiny in 1996. Guinea was the scene of violent protests earlier this year as people called for the ailing president to step down. A three-week general strike ended after a military crackdown and the appointment of a consensus prime minister. The BBC's Alhassan Sillah in Conakry says the situation remains very tense. [Prime Minister] Kouyate cannot solve the situation by asking the bank to print some money The soldiers marched into the city centre to the army headquarters. Shops and market stalls closed as people rushed to get home and pick their children up from school. At the height of the stand-off, two government radio stations went off air. There were also reports of disturbances in Kindia and Mamou in the east and Macenta in the south. Last week, a spokesman for the aggrieved soldiers told the BBC they wanted their promised 11-year salary arrears paid. He also said they wanted the resignation of senior military officials including the army chief, Gen Kelfala Camara, and the new Defence Minister, Arafan Camara. Guinea analyst Gilles Yabi, from the International Crisis Group, says these events do not come as a surprise. The deal emerged after days of intense negotiation "Even in the middle of demonstrations in January and February there were signs of discontent within the military... it was not connected to the political situation, it was really because of their conditions," he told the BBC's Focus on Africa programme. "The soldiers want to be rewarded for the loyalty they've maintained towards President Lansana Conte," he said. But Mr Yabi said it puts the new prime minister, Lansana Kouyate, in a very difficult position. He was appointed to curb inflation and bring in badly needed economic reforms. "That means that Kouyate cannot solve the situation by asking the bank to print some money," Mr Yabi said. Although Guinea's mineral wealth makes it potentially one of Africa's richest countries, its people are among the poorest in West Africa. Mr Conte seized power in a bloodless coup in 1984 and in 2003 won a third term in a poll boycotted by the opposition. E-mail this to a friend 'I'm afraid for Guinea' Protest clashes in pictures 'Two people shot before my eyes' Guinea's strongman Lansana Conte starts to feel the heat Q&A: State of siege Inside the power vacuum Taking control of mineral wealth Voices on the crisis The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites UN to decide on Zimbabwe key role Guinea soldiers suspend protest Africa air staff 'being poached' MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/uk_politics/6644717.stm	BBC NEWS | Politics | Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 15:45 GMT 16:45 UK E-mail this to a friend Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Gordon Brown said he had the "new ideas and vision" to govern Britain as he launched his long-awaited campaign to lead Labour and become prime minister. He praised Tony Blair and said he wanted to make the UK "one of the great success stories of the new century". But the launch suffered a hitch with Mr Brown's face obscured on TV coverage of his speech by glass autocues. Mr Blair earlier endorsed Mr Brown's bid to succeed him as prime minister, saying "he has what it takes". I want to lead a government humble enough to know its place - where I will always strive to be - and that is on people's side What will he do as PM? Launching his campaign at the Imagination Gallery in central London, Mr Brown said Mr Blair "has led our country for ten years with distinction - with courage, passion and insight". But he added: "In the weeks and months ahead, my task is to show I have the new ideas, the vision and the experience to earn the trust of the British people." Mr Brown said he welcomed challenges from other leadership contenders and pledged to lead a government "of all the talents," refusing to rule out employing ministers from other parties. Was that really him behind those plate glass windows? Standing in front of his campaign logo, "Gordon Brown for Britain", Mr Brown pledged to tour the country to "listen and learn" about people's concerns. "I want to lead a government humble enough to know its place - where I will always strive to be - and that is on people's side," he said. He rejected Conservative calls for a snap election, saying the Tories did not call for an election in 1990, when Margaret Thatcher stood down. He also denied he would move the government to the left, saying he would continue to "drive forward" New Labour reforms to the public services. But he said he wanted to strengthen Britain's constitution and give more power to MPs. "One of my first acts as prime minister would be to restore power to Parliament in order to build the trust of the British people in our democracy. "Government must be more open and more accountable to Parliament - for example in decisions about peace and war, in public appointments and in a new ministerial code of conduct." He can make a real difference to this country for the better and for the good In Full: Brown's speech Media: 'Iraq tarnished Blair' Mr Brown also suggested Britain could get its first written constitution, saying: "We need a constitution that is clear about the rights and responsibilities of being a citizen in Britain today." On Iraq, Mr Brown said: "I accept that mistakes have been made." He said he would be visiting Britain's troops and "listening to what the government of Iraq says". Later, in a speech in Knebworth, in Hertfordshire, Mr Brown promised to create a "new kind of politics" in which the government "gives power away so that people in the community can have more power". He said the challenge facing the government was to "create a strong society" to go with Britain's "strong economy". Mr Brown is the firm favourite to succeed Mr Blair when he quits on 27 June. He could still face a challenge from one of two left-wing backbenchers but there appears to be a coordinated effort among Labour MPs to unite behind him, with Blairite MPs Stephen Byers and Alan Milburn also expected to back him. I feel like Brown has been snuck in through the back door Send us your comments Mr Blair, who until now has held back from endorsing Mr Brown's bid to replace him, said: "I am absolutely delighted to give my full support to Gordon as the next leader of the Labour Party and as prime minister and to endorse him fully." He added: "He has shown, as perhaps the most successful chancellor in our country's history, that he's got the strength and the experience and the judgment to make a great prime minister." But shadow chancellor George Osborne, for the Conservatives, said Mr Brown as chancellor had been "responsible for the failures of the past 10 years". "When you look at the things people are really fed up with, like the collapse of the pension system, like the failure to get money to the frontline of the health service, Gordon Brown is more responsible for that than any other politician including Tony Blair," Mr Osborne told BBC News 24. Q&A: What happens now? Analysis: Blair's exit message Referring to Labour's heavy election losses last week, he added: "I don't see how he could be the change that the country wants and the country voted for." Liberal Democrat Treasury spokesman Vincent Cable said Mr Brown had focused too much on improving his image and criticised his "presidential" style. He added: "When he has tried to change his personality for PR purposes, it's been excruciatingly embarrassing... I think he's much better off being himself." Mr Brown is spending the day touring marginal Labour seats which the Tories are targeting. Commons leader Jack Straw, Mr Brown's campaign manager, said he wanted to "reach out" to the voters in the South-East of England that had brought Labour to power in 1997. Mr Straw also denied suggestions there would be a cooling in relations between Downing Street and Washington under a Brown premiership. He told BBC Radio 4's Today programme: "Gordon Brown and George Bush don't know each other anywhere nearly as well as Tony Blair and George Bush. That relationship will develop." Backbenchers Michael Meacher and John McDonnell are still trying to muster enough support between them to mount a leadership bid. They will meet on Monday - when nominations officially open - and the one with the fewest confirmed backers will stand aside. E-mail this to a friend VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS Gordon Brown launches his leadership bid Nick Assinder on what Gordon Brown might do in the top job Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Deputy contenders woo MPs Brown rivals delay bid decision Blair will stand down on 27 June Prescott quits as deputy leader Q&A: What happens now? In depth: Blair's legacy From rebellious schoolboy to global statesman. Would Brown be right for PM? Who would make the best leader of the Labour Party? None of the above Results are indicative and may not reflect public opinion The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Labour deputy hopefuls woo MPs SNP and Greens sign working deal MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/uk/6647865.stm	BBC NEWS | UK | Iraq leader says troops must stay Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 18:09 GMT 19:09 UK E-mail this to a friend Iraq leader says troops must stay Jalal Talabani (right) also met Tony Blair at Downing Street US and British troops will need to stay another one or two years in Iraq, Iraqi President Jalal Talabani has said. Mr Talabani was addressing students during a visit to Cambridge University. Asked when the UK and US should leave, he said: "I think in one or two years we will be able to recruit our own army forces and say goodbye to our friends." He added that he considered Prime Minister Tony Blair to be a "hero" and said he hoped Gordon Brown would continue his work. In the latest violence in Iraq, twin suicide bombings in south-eastern Baghdad have killed 22 people and injured 60. The victims include police officers, Iraqi soldiers and civilians. The attacks happened on two bridges in the capital which form a key route out of the south of the city. After a meeting with Mr Blair at 10 Downing Street, Mr Talabani said Mr Blair was a "dear friend" and a "great leader". I think it was a very noble job that your army and your people did in Iraq The Iraqi president expressed his sympathy towards the families of British forces killed in his country, who he said had died for a just cause. He said: "I am very, very sorry for the lives lost in Iraq." "I think it was a very noble job that your army and your people did in Iraq." Mr Talabani urged US politicians to reconsider plans to begin withdrawing their forces from his country. On Thursday, the US House of Representatives passed a draft bill that would provide funding for troops in Iraq only until July. Mr Talabani told reporters: "We are concerned. We hope that Congress will review this decision and help the American army to stay until the Iraqi army will be able to replace them and to protect the security of Iraq." E-mail this to a friend THE STRUGGLE FOR IRAQ US House passes Iraq funding bill Cheney addresses troops in Iraq US Marine 'shot unarmed Iraqis' Bush 'would veto new Iraq bill' Car bomb explodes in Iraqi city The Iraq summit was a limited success for US contacts with Iran and Syria Despair as Baghdad plan falters Massacre fuels northern tensions Baghdad: Mapping the violence Iraq violence in figures Baker's sweet smell of success Your views: Iraq four years on TV reports on Iraq Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Madeleine parents 'won't give up' 11 Menezes police face no action MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/world/south_asia/6647799.stm	BBC NEWS | World | South Asia | Karachi braced for judge protests Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 16:27 GMT 17:27 UK E-mail this to a friend Karachi braced for judge protests Thousands of security personnel are deployed in the city At least one person has been killed and more than 100 arrested ahead of rallies over Pakistan's continuing judicial crisis in the southern city of Karachi. Demonstrations are planned for Saturday when Pakistan's ousted top judge is due to address his supporters in the city. Chief Justice Iftikhar Chaudhry was suspended by President Musharraf in March. He denies abuse of power. The suspension triggered protests by lawyers and the opposition which have grown into an anti-government campaign. Observers say anger over the judge's suspension poses the biggest challenge to Gen Musharraf's rule since he seized power in 1999. The BBC's Syed Shoaib Hasan in Karachi, capital of Sindh province, says lawyers there plan a massive reception for the chief justice on Saturday. I assure you the MQM will follow the law to the letter Lawyer's house shot at Opposition political parties - including the six-party MMA Islamic alliance and the country's largest party, the Pakistan People's Party - are also expected to participate. The ruling party in Sindh, the Muttahida Qaumi Movement (MQM), has said it will hold rival demonstrations in support of President Musharraf's government on the same day. More than 15,000 security personnel have been deployed in the city to prevent violence. Late on Friday morning, a security guard was shot dead by armed men forcibly closing down a shopping centre on Karachi's main thoroughfare, Shahrah-e-Faisal. Mr Chaudhry was suspended from his post in March Earlier, police arrested scores of political activists and raided homes across the city. "We have detained over 100 people who are a risk to security on 12 May," Azhar Farooqi, the city police chief, told the BBC. "We are monitoring the situation and there may be more arrests required." The city and provincial police are controlled by the home department which is headed by a minister from the MQM. But the party leadership denies that it has used the state machinery to help keep the opposition in line. "I assure you the MQM will follow the law to the letter and never indulge in such tactics," Dr Farooq Sattar, a senior MQM leader, told the BBC. He described such suggestions as "last resort propaganda". Both sides have refused to reschedule their rallies, and the lawyers have accused the provincial government of using intimidatory tactics. Ahead of the 12 May rallies, Munir Malik, a leader of the lawyers' campaign to have the chief justice reinstated, had his offices sealed by local building officials. The courts later suspended the move. Hours later, his home was attacked by unidentified gunmen. Since then there has been a visible increase in tensions in Karachi, which has a long history of political violence, our correspondent says. Both government and opposition politicians have called for restraint. E-mail this to a friend How the Taleban and their supporters are moving eastwards in Pakistan. The judge and democracy Profile: PM Shaukat Aziz The scientist who confessed International Commission of Jurists The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites TOP SOUTH ASIA STORIES Uttar Pradesh low caste landslide US admits Afghan civilians killed Karachi braced for judge protests MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/programmes/from_our_own_correspondent/6639385.stm	BBC NEWS | Programmes | From Our Own Correspondent | A letter from Iraq to Tony Blair Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Thursday, 10 May 2007, 13:59 GMT 14:59 UK E-mail this to a friend A letter from Iraq to Tony Blair One issue threatens to overshadow Tony Blair's legacy, affecting his image and standing at home and abroad, the decision to go to war in Iraq. Even at the time of Saddam's fall, people were wary of the future I have never written to a politician in my life. But I very nearly made an exception for Tony Blair. It was towards the end of 2002, when it was already clear that the invasion of Iraq was only a matter of time. I found myself deeply torn. I had no illusions about the nature of Saddam Hussein. I had followed his brutal antics for years. I had been to his Iraq, and felt the all-pervasive fear instilled by his vigilant and ruthless police state. What a relief it was to get on the plane and feel that oppressive weight lifted off your shoulders, an experience that most Iraqis were denied. But when Saddam's excesses were at their worst, during the war with Iran in the 1980s, he was actually being discreetly supported by the Americans. Washington was turning a blind eye to human rights reports from its own State Department detailing how Iraqi children were being tortured in front of their parents to get them to confess or inform. In 1988, when the Iraqi air force dropped chemical bombs which killed thousands of Kurds at Halabja, I remember phoning the Pentagon, and being told: "We think it was the Iranians who did it." So on a personal level, I would be glad to see the end of Saddam Hussein and his harsh dictatorship. It was clear, long before it happened, that this was going to be a terrible mess. It had to be But the impending invasion was clearly not about to happen because he was a bad man. It might be the right thing, but it was being done for the wrong reasons - reasons that had more to do with the global ambitions of the ascendant neo-conservatives in Washington, and their desire to engineer a New Order in the Middle East. The chosen pretexts for the war - Saddam's alleged weapons of mass destruction and links with international terror - turned out to be simply invalid. I have often thought, over these past four years, of that regular cartoon slot in the satirical magazine Private Eye, entitled "Things We Seldom See". It features situations which would be blindingly logical, but just never happen. I wanted to propose one where President Bush addresses Saddam Hussein and says: "Mr Hussein, you were right. There were no weapons of mass destruction, and no links with terrorism. We'd like to apologise, and give you your country back." Apart from misgivings about Washington's real motives and objectives, it was clear, long before it happened, that this was going to be a terrible mess. It had to be. Iraq is a patchwork country, an ethnic and confessional cocktail, of Arabs and Kurds, Turkomans and Chaldaeans, Sunnis and Shiites. Iraq has been plagued with civil unrest and violence Such countries are usually held together by a strong centralised dictatorship, which could be benign or tyrannical. As soon as you admit the concept of democracy and take the lid off, it is bound to be difficult and chaotic in the best of conditions, in a place with no democratic traditions or culture. To blow the regime and all its control mechanisms away virtually overnight, through the massive use of force by people from halfway around the world, would inevitably plunge the country and the region into a long period of chaos, whatever exact form it would take. That is why I lay sleepless in my bed in Tehran, mentally composing that letter to Tony Blair that I never wrote. I was going to tell him, on the basis of three decades living and working in the region, that he was on the brink of a massive historical blunder. I never sent it, because I knew of course that it would not make a blind bit of difference, apart from perhaps salving my own conscience, and allowing me to say: "I told you so" - something that would bring no satisfaction at all. And so, four years on, look at what a terrible mess Mr Blair can now say goodbye to, and hand on to Gordon Brown. Where there used to be tight state control, there is massive terrorism on a daily basis. The Americans have been bombing Baghdad again, to quell Sunni militants and Shiite militias. At the end of the day, the British are minor players, politically important partners brought in on the coat-tails of the Americans They are building walls to separate districts, euphemistically calling them "gated communities". Millions of Iraqis have fled the country. In the south, British troops are trying to stifle Shiite militias which know they only have to wait, because the British will be gone before long. A transition of leadership in London is not going to make much difference on the ground in Iraq. Gordon Brown will be locked into a situation which he might or might not have chosen to get into in the first place, but will now be stuck with, and his options will be limited. At the end of the day, the British are minor players, politically important partners brought in on the coat-tails of the Americans. It is the outcome of their last-ditch struggle to control Baghdad and central Iraq that is crucial to the country's future. If it does not work, the coalition troops may start pulling out and we may find that Iraq's long nightmare has only just begun. From Our Own Correspondent was broadcast on Thursday, 10 May, 2007 at 1100 GMT on BBC Radio 4. Please check the for World Service transmission times. E-mail this to a friend Personal reflections by BBC correspondents around the world SEARCH FROM OUR OWN CORRESPONDENT: Three Ways to Listen From Our Own Correspondent THE STRUGGLE FOR IRAQ US House passes Iraq funding bill Cheney addresses troops in Iraq US Marine 'shot unarmed Iraqis' Bush 'would veto new Iraq bill' Car bomb explodes in Iraqi city The Iraq summit was a limited success for US contacts with Iran and Syria Despair as Baghdad plan falters Massacre fuels northern tensions Baghdad: Mapping the violence Iraq violence in figures Baker's sweet smell of success Your views: Iraq four years on TV reports on Iraq MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac
http://search.yahoo.com/mrss	Media RSS Module - RSS 2.0 Module "Media RSS" Specification Version 1.1.1 An RSS module that supplements the 02/21/2005 - Major consolidation of all requested changes: [1.0.0] Added additional type of element to distinguish content of an adult nature. Modified to have a attribute for better module consistency. to allow specifying categorization scheme. for a human readable label. element for media binary hashing. to distinguish formatting of text. Improved descriptions of various elements and attributes. 08/22/2005 - Improved global syndication capabilities: [1.1.0] attributes to media:text and media:content. to give more flexibility to represent things other than people or companies. to explicitly determine what type of media is expressed. Added a "Best Practices" section to encourage use of the Feed History module, and Dublin Core's expiration capability. Add time code information to 10/22/2005 - Minor improvements: [1.1.1] Added capability for elements to appear at the to allow explicit global relationships to be expressed. The namespace for Media RSS is defined to be: "Media RSS" is a new RSS module that supplements the enclosure capabilities of RSS 2.0. RSS enclosures are already being used to syndicate audio files and images. Media RSS extends enclosures to handle other media types, such as short films or TV, as well as provide additional metadata with the media. Media RSS enables content publishers and bloggers to syndicate multimedia content such as TV and video clips, movies, images, and audio. is a sub-element of . It allows grouping of elements that are effectively the same content, yet different representations. For instance: the same song recorded in both the WAV and MP3 format. It's an optional element that must only be used for this purpose. is a sub-element of either . Media objects that are not the same content should not be included in the same element. The sequence of these items implies the order of presentation. While many of the attributes appear to be audio/video specific, this element can be used to publish any type of media. It contains 14 attributes, most of which are optional. should specify the direct url to the media object. If not included, a element must be specified. is the number of bytes of the media object. It is an optional attribute. is the standard MIME type of the object. It is an optional attribute. is the type of object (image | audio | video | document | executable). While this attribute can at times seem redundant if is supplied, it is included because it simplifies decision making on the reader side, as well as flushes out any ambiguities between MIME type and object type. It is an optional attribute. determines if this is the default object that should be used for the . There should only be one default object per . It is an optional attribute. determines if the object is a sample or the full version of the object, or even if it is a continuous stream (sample | full | nonstop). Default value is 'full'. It is an optional attribute. is the kilobits per second rate of media. It is an optional attribute. is the number of frames per second for the media object. It is an optional attribute. is the number of samples per second taken to create the media object. It is expressed in thousands of samples per second (kHz). It is an optional attribute. is number of audio channels in the media object. It is an optional attribute. is the number of seconds the media object plays. It is an optional attribute. is the height of the media object. It is an optional attribute. is the width of the media object. It is an optional attribute. is the primary language encapsulated in the media object. Language codes possible are detailed in RFC 3066. This attribute is used similar to the attribute detailed in the XML 1.0 Specification (Third Edition). It is an optional attribute. These optional attributes, along with the optional elements below, contain the primary metadata entries needed to index and organize media content. Additional supported attributes for describing images, audio, and video may be added in future revisions of this document. have no limitations on the number of times they can appear, the general nature of RSS should be preserved: an represents a "story". Simply stated, this is similar to the blog style of syndication. However, if one is using this module to strictly publish media, there should be one element for each media object/group. This is to allow for proper attribution for the origination of the media content through the element. It also allows the full benefit of the other RSS elements to be realized. The following elements are optional and may appear as sub-elements of When an element appears at a shallow level, such as , it means that the element should be applied to every media object within its scope. Duplicated elements appearing at deeper levels of the document tree have higher priority over other levels. For example, level elements are favored over level elements. The priority level is listed from strongest to weakest: [NOTE: This is deprecated, and has been replaced with the more flexible This allows the permissible audience to be declared. If this element is not included, it assumes that no restrictions are necessary. It has one optional attribute. r (cz 1 lz 1 nz 1 oz 1 vz 1) is the URI that identifies the rating scheme. It is an optional attribute. If this attribute is not included, the default scheme is urn:simple (adult | nonadult). The title of the particular media object. It has 1 optional attribute. The Judy's - The Moo Song specifies the type of text embedded. Possible values are either 'plain' or 'html'. Default value is 'plain'. All html must be entity-encoded. It is an optional attribute. Short description describing the media object typically a sentence in length. It has 1 optional attribute. This was some really bizarre band I listened to as a young lad. specifies the type of text embedded. Possible values are either 'plain' or 'html'. Default value is 'plain'. All html must be entity-encoded. It is an optional attribute. Highly relevant keywords describing the media object with typically a maximum of ten words. The keywords and phrases should be comma delimited. kitty, cat, big dog, yarn, fluffy Allows particular images to be used as representative images for the media object. If multiple thumbnails are included, and time coding is not at play, it is assumed that the images are in order of importance. It has 1 required attribute and 3 optional attributes. specifies the url of the thumbnail. It is a required attribute. specifies the height of the thumbnail. It is an optional attribute. specifies the width of the thumbnail. It is an optional attribute. specifies the time offset in relation to the media object. Typically this is used when creating multiple keyframes within a single video. The format for this attribute should be in the DSM-CC's Normal Play Time (NTP) as used in RTSP [ RFC 2326 3.6 Normal Play Time ]. It is an optional attribute. NTP has a second or subsecond resolution. It is specified as H:M:S.h (npt-hhmmss) or S.h (npt-sec), where H=hours, M=minutes, S=second and h=fractions of a second. A possible alternative to NTP would be SMPTE. It is believed that NTP is simpler and easier to use. Allows a taxonomy to be set that gives an indication of the type of media content, and its particular contents. It has 2 optional attributes. is the URI that identifies the categorization scheme. It is an optional attribute. If this attribute is not included, the default scheme is 'http://search.yahoo.com/mrss/category_schema'. is the human readable label that can be displayed in end user applications. It is an optional attribute. This is the hash of the binary media file. It can appear multiple times as long as each instance is a different . It has 1 optional attribute. indicates the algorithm used to create the hash. Possible values are 'md5' and 'sha-1'. Default value is 'md5'. It is an optional attribute. Allows the media object to be accessed through a web browser media player console. This element is required only if a direct media attribute is not specified in the element. It has 1 required attribute, and 2 optional attributes. is the url of the player console that plays the media. It is a required attribute. is the height of the browser window that the should be opened in. It is an optional attribute. is the width of the browser window that the should be opened in. It is an optional attribute. Notable entity and the contribution to the creation of the media object. Current entities can include people, companies, locations, etc. Specific entities can have multiple roles, and several entities can have the same role. These should appear as distinct elements. It has 2 optional attributes. role specifies the role the entity played. Must be lowercase. It is an optional attribute. is the URI that identifies the role scheme. It is an optional attribute. If this attribute is not included, the default scheme is 'urn:ebu'. See: European Broadcasting Union Role Codes. actor anchor person author choreographer composer conductor director editor graphic designer grip illustrator lyricist music arranger music group musician orchestra performer photographer producer reporter vocalist European Broadcasting Union Role Codes Copyright information for media object. It has 1 optional attribute. is the url for a terms of use page or additional copyright information. If the media is operating under a Creative Commons license, the Creative Commons module should be used instead. It is an optional attribute. Allows the inclusion of a text transcript, closed captioning, or lyrics of the media content. Many of these elements are permitted to provide a time series of text. In such cases, it is encouraged, but not required, that the elements be grouped by language and appear in time sequence order based on the time. Elements can have overlapping times. It has 4 optional attributes. Oh, say, can you see By the dawn's early light specifies the type of text embedded. Possible values are either 'plain' or 'html'. Default value is 'plain'. All html must be entity-encoded. It is an optional attribute. is the primary language encapsulated in the media object. Language codes possible are detailed in RFC 3066. This attribute is used similar to the xml:lang attribute detailed in the XML 1.0 Specification (Third Edition). It is an optional attribute. specifies the start time offset that the text starts being relevant to the media object. An example of this would be for closed captioning. It uses the NTP time code format (see: the time attribute used in ). It is an optional attribute. specifies the end time that the text is relevant. If this attribute is not provided, and a time is used, it is expected that the end time is either the end of the clip or the start of the next Allows restrictions to be placed on the aggregator rendering the media in the feed. Currently, restrictions are based on distributor (uri) and country codes. This element is purely informational and no obligation can be assumed or implied. Only one element of the same can be applied to a media object - all others will be ignored. Entities in this element should be space separated. To allow the producer to explicitly declare his/her intentions, two literals are reserved: 'all', 'none'. These literals can only be used once. This element has 1 required attribute, and 1 optional attribute (with strict requirements for its exclusion). indicates the type of relationship that the restriction represents (allow | deny). In the example above, the media object should only be syndicated in Australia and the United States. It is a required attribute. If the "allow" element is empty and the type is relationship is "allow", it is assumed that the empty list means "allow nobody" and the media should not be syndicated. A more explicit method would be: specifies the type of restriction (country | uri) that the media can be syndicated. It is an optional attribute; however can only be excluded when using one of the literal values "all" or "none". "country" allows restrictions to be placed based on country code. [ "uri" allows restrictions based on URI. Examples: urn:apple, http://images.google.com, urn:yahoo, etc. The following are encouraged "best practices" when using Media RSS: If your feed is not an "incremental" in the traditional RSS sense, but rather an entire snapshot of all media available, please take note of the element. This element when set to "false" correctly informs the RSS reader that the current feed replaces the previously fetched feed. If you prefer to syndicate media more along the lines of traditional RSS, this specification also allows you to daisy chain multiple feeds together to compose a history of media that is available on your site. Expirations Using Dublin Core To the best of your ability, media that is scheduled to expire after a given time should be duly noted through Dublin Core's A recently created movie, using the RSS 2.0 element and without the use of the Media RSS module. A movie review with a trailer, using a Creative Commons license. My Movie Review Site Movie Title: Is this a good movie? A music video with a link to a player window, and additional metadata about the video, including expiration date. Discussions of great videos The latest video from an artist Oh, say, can you see, by the dawn's early light Several different songs that relate to the same topic. Discussion on different songs These songs make me think about blah Same song with multiple files at different bitrates and encodings. (Bittorrent example as well) Songs galore at different bitrates Cool song by an artist Thank you to everyone who has contributed to this specification, and to all those that sent suggestions and corrections. The Yahoo! Group " " has been instrumental in helping transform the initial Media RSS proposal into a working specification. While there have been many helpful individuals from this community, special thanks go to Danny Ayers, Marc Canter, Lucas Gonze, Vadim Zaliva, Greg Smith, Robert Sayre, Suzan Foster, Erwin van Hunen, Greg Gershman, Jennifer Kolar, Bill Kearney, and Andreas Haugstrup Pedersen. On the Yahoo! team: David Hall, John Thrall, Eckart Walther, Jeremy Zawodny, Andy Volk, and Bradley Horowitz. On the Google team: David Marwood and Peter Chane. Copyright &copy; 2007 Yahoo! Inc. All rights reserved.
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/sport1/hi/motorsport/formula_one/6646055.stm	BBC SPORT | Motorsport | Formula One | Alonso bounces back to set pace Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation F1 on Five Live>> Friday, 11 May 2007, 13:42 GMT 14:42 UK E-mail this to a friend Alonso bounces back to set pace Alonso is determined to win his home Grand Prix Fernando Alonso underlined how much he wants to win his home Spanish Grand Prix with the fastest time in practice. The world champion bounced back after being beaten by team-mate Lewis Hamilton in Friday's first session to dominate practice in the afternoon. Alonso set a best lap of one minute 21.397 seconds to beat Hamilton, who was fifth, by 0.791secs. The Renaults of Giancarlo Fisichella and Heikki Kovalainen were second and third, ahead of Ferrari's Felipe Massa. Hamilton improved by only 0.1secs over his morning time, while Alonso found nearly 0.9secs. Your views on the Spanish Grand Prix In the morning session, Alonso, who was outpaced by his rookie team-mate at the last race in Bahrain, set the early pace in 1:22.449, with Hamilton just behind. Both drivers improved their times on their second series of laps, but this time Hamilton was just over 0.1secs faster than the world champion. The 22-year-old improved his time again, by nearly 0.3secs on his third run, whereas Alonso did not go any faster, but the Spaniard was still clear of the Ferraris. Schumacher is attending his first GP since his retirement By the end of the afternoon Hamilton was sandwiched between the two Ferraris, with Kimi Raikkonen in sixth place, suggesting another close battle between F1's two dominant teams. The pace of the Renaults appears not to be indicative of a major step forward after their disappointing start to the season, according to Fisichella. "My feeling is that we are possibly a little bit closer to the cars in front of us," the Italian said, "even if we are clearly not fast enough to be second in the times on speed alone." Kovalainen added: "The target has to be to qualify in the top 10 but, just like at the last three races, it is going to be tough." Jenson Button continued to struggle in the Honda, managing only the 13th fastest time in the afternoon, just ahead of team-mate Rubens Barrichello. Button was 10th fastest in the morning, when he was nearly half a second down on Anthony Davidson's Super Aguri, which is effectively Honda's 2006 car. Button said: "We have made some small steps with the stability of the car since the last race but the outright pace has not yet improved a lot." Davidson dropped to 20th in the second session. Times from first practice at the Spanish Grand Prix: 1. Lewis Hamilton (GB) McLaren-Mercedes one minute 21.880 seconds 2. Fernando Alonso (Spa) McLaren-Mercedes 1:22.268 3. Kimi Raikkonen (Fin) Ferrari 1:22.291 4. Robert Kubica (Pol) BMW Sauber 1:22.446 5. Felipe Massa (Brz) Ferrari 1:22.565 6. Anthony Davidson (GB) Super Aguri-Honda 1:22.665 7. Jarno Trulli (Ita) Toyota 1:22.740 8. Ralf Schumacher (Ger) Toyota 1:22.843 9. Nico Rosberg (Ger) Williams-Toyota 1:23.048 10. Jenson Button (GB) Honda 1:23.114 11. Alexander Wurz (Aut) Williams-Toyota 1:23.131 12. Nick Heidfeld (Ger) BMW Sauber 1:23.170 13. Takuma Sato (Jpn) Super Aguri-Honda 1:23.316 14. Heikki Kovalainen (Fin) Renault 1:23.322 15. Giancarlo Fisichella (Ita) Renault 1:23.397 16. David Coulthard (GB) Red Bull-Renault 1:23.428 17. Mark Webber (Aus) Red Bull-Renault 1:23.444 18. Rubens Barrichello (Brz) Honda 1:23.479 19. Adrian Sutil (Ger) Spyker-Ferrari 1:23.954 20. Vitantonio Liuzzi (Ita) Toro Rosso-Ferrari 1:24.104 21. Scott Speed (USA) Toro Rosso-Ferrari 1:24.179 22. Christijan Albers (Ned) Spyker-Ferrari 1:24.396 Times from the second practice session: 18. Jarno Trulli, Italy, Toyota, 1:23.307 Follow live coverage of the Spainsh Grand Prix on BBC Five Live and this website. Qualifying starts at 1300 BST on Saturday, with the race at the same time on Sunday. Schumi hails precocious Hamilton 11 May 07 | Formula One Singapore to stage F1 night race 11 May 07 | Formula One Renault expect tough Spanish test 08 May 07 | Formula One Schumacher to attend Spanish GP 09 May 07 | Formula One Valencia streets to host F1 GP 10 May 07 | Formula One Ralf expects F1 drive next season 11 May 07 | Formula One Your say on Formula One - 606 Five Live Formula One The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites BBC PRODUCTS AND SERVICES Daily and weekly e-mails Back to top ^^ Privacy & Cookies Policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/middle_east/6645929.stm	BBC NEWS | World | Middle East | Clashes follow new Gaza operation Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 10:25 GMT 11:25 UK E-mail this to a friend Clashes follow new Gaza operation Soldiers from both main rival factions have deployed in Gaza Clashes in the Gaza Strip have left six Palestinians wounded, a day after a major security operation began aimed at try to curb violence and lawlessness. Hundreds of troops, some loyal to rival factions Hamas and Fatah, fanned out on the streets of Gaza on Thursday. Up to 400 people have died in clashes between Palestinian factions since the Islamist Hamas won last year's parliamentary elections. But the rival parties agreed to form a coalition government earlier this year. On Friday, a number of Palestinians, including civilians and security officers from forces controlled by Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas, were wounded in shootouts in Gaza City. A further two civilians were hurt when militants from the armed wing of Hamas opened fire in the Jabaliya refugee camp north of Gaza City, the AFP news agency reported. The circumstances surrounding this incident are not clear. Since the Israeli withdrawal from Gaza in 2005, the strip has seen a wave of infighting, armed robberies, deadly family feuds and kidnappings. Several attempts to halt the violence have failed, and the interior minister in the new Palestinian coalition government, Hani Qawasmi, has threatened to resign because he says his plan for restoring security has not been carried out. As many as 3,000 police were reported to have taken part in the initial operations launched on Thursday, the Associated Press reported. One official told the AFP news agency that troops took up positions in the north of Gaza at entrances to towns and at major road junctions. Witnesses said that security personnel were inspecting vehicles on the approach to Gaza City and asking passengers to show their identity cards. Officials said that forces loyal to Fatah and Hamas would now wear the same police uniform and answer to the interior ministry, which has been placed under the control of Mr Qawasmi, a political independent in the coalition government. The full details of the security plan are not known. The first phase was set to last 100 days and to cover traffic and crime fighting, the Associated Press said. E-mail this to a friend Rival groups join forces in Gaza BBC's Johnston wins press award Hamas told to axe children's show MPs back beleaguered Israeli PM Israelis across the political spectrum unite at an anti-Olmert rally in Tel Aviv Wave of discontent in Israel Gulf in Mid-East narratives Timeline: Alan Johnston missing Israeli views on Halutz TOP MIDDLE EAST STORIES Clashes follow new Gaza operation Iraq leader says troops must stay New Jerusalem settlement planned MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/world/americas/6645555.stm	BBC NEWS | World | Americas | Pope names Brazil's first saint Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 17:53 GMT 18:53 UK E-mail this to a friend Pope names Brazil's first saint Believers from across Latin America cheered and waved flags Pope Benedict XVI has canonised Brazil's first native-born saint, Friar Galvao, to the cheers of up to a million faithful gathered in Sao Paulo. The Pope announced the sainthood from a throne flanked by bishops and choirs, and overlooked by a giant wooden cross. The Church has attributed two miracles to Friar Galvao, an 18th Century monk who is still seen as influential. The open-air Mass marks the highlight of the Pope's five-day visit to the world's most populous Catholic nation. Hundreds of thousands of believers from across Latin America cheered and waved flags at Sao Paulo's Campo de Marte airfield. Many had spent the night there. The BBC's Gary Duffy in Sao Paulo says the Catholic Church in Brazil is hoping that the Pope's visit and the canonisation will help reinvigorate the local church, which has lost millions of faithful in recent years to evangelical churches. Brazil's first native-born saint Lived from 1739 to 1822 Credited by church with 5,000 miracle cures Founded monasteries and convents in Brazil Profile: Saint Antonio Galvao Pope visit: Reporter's diary During the Mass, the 80-year-old pontiff encouraged his listeners to follow the example of the new saint by helping the needy "in an age so full of hedonism". He lauded Friar Galvao as a model of rectitude and humility, and went on to criticise the elements of the media that ridiculed the sanctity of marriage and virginity before marriage. After canonising Friar Galvao, the Pope also hugged Sandra Grossi de Almeida and her seven-year-old son, Enzo. She is one of two Brazilian females who the Church says are evidence of divinely inspired miracles that justify Friar Galvao's sainthood. Friar Galvao is remembered for producing Latin prayers written on tiny balls of paper that, when swallowed, had the apparent effect of curing a range of ailments. After taking one of these pills, Ms Almeida, who had a uterine malformation that should have made it impossible for her to carry a child for more than four months, gave birth to Enzo. Friar Galvao is also certified by the Church as healing a four-year-old girl said to have been considered incurable by doctors. I hope Pope Benedict XVI can help to resurrect our Brazilian Catholic identity Philippe Gebara, Rio de Janeiro Send us your comments Following the Mass, the Pope met some 430 Brazilian bishops at a Sao Paulo cathedral. Another highlight of the Pope's trip comes on Sunday, when a crowd of at least 350,000 people is expected to celebrate Mass in Aparecida, where the Pope will also take part in a conference of Latin American bishops. The forum, the first for 15 years, will bring together nearly 200 bishops and cardinals from Latin America and the Caribbean to set out the Church's agenda and future policies in the region. 'Sheep without a shepherd' On Thursday, the Pope received a rapturous reception from an audience of tens of thousands of young people gathered at a Sao Paulo stadium. Brazilians give their views on the Pope's stance on abortion and contraception His address focused on what he called the "snares of evil" - pre-marital sex, drug use, corruption, violence and the temptations of wealth and power. He urged the young to avoid these and asked them to "be promoters of life, from its beginning to its natural end". The Pope sparked controversy as soon as he arrived in Brazil on Wednesday by stressing his strong opposition to abortion, the subject of intense debate in the country, where some Brazilians are pushing for the legalisation of terminations. The World Health Organisation estimates that illegal abortions numbered more than a million in Brazil last year alone. E-mail this to a friend VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS Images from the open-air Mass in Sao Paulo Pope's Brazil tour: Diary Day Three 11 May 07 | Americas In pictures: Pope names Brazil saint 11 May 07 | In Pictures Catholic Church tested in Brazil 09 May 07 | Americas Wartime Pope on path to sainthood 09 May 07 | Europe Call for Brazil abortion debate 09 Apr 07 | Americas Factfile: Roman Catholics around the world 01 Apr 05 | World The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Pope names Brazil's first saint UK police face no action on shooting Virginia Tech students graduating MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/world/americas/6645179.stm	BBC NEWS | World | Americas | Nasa unveils Hubble's successor Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 00:00 GMT 01:00 UK E-mail this to a friend Nasa unveils Hubble's successor The model of the JWST is on display in Washington DC. The US space agency Nasa has unveiled a model of a space telescope that scientists say will be able to see to the farthest reaches of the Universe. The James Webb Space Telescope (JWST) is intended to replace the ageing Hubble telescope. It will be larger than its predecessor, sit farther from Earth and have a giant mirror to enable it to see more. Officials said the JWST - named after a former Nasa administrator - was on course for launch in June 2013. The full-scale model is being displayed outside the Smithsonian National Air and Space Museum in the US capital, Washington DC. It was recently shown off in Seattle at the American Astronomical Society meeting. The $4.5bn (£2.3bn) telescope will take up a position some 1.5 million km (930,000 miles) from Earth. It will measure 24m (80ft) long by 12m (40ft) high and incorporate a hexagonal mirror 6.5m (21.3ft) in diameter, almost three times the size of Hubble's. Hubble, launched in 1990, has sent back pictures of our solar system, distant stars, and remote fledgling galaxies formed not long after the Big Bang. But scientists say the JWST will enable them to look deeper into space and even further back at the origins of the Universe. "Clearly we need a much bigger telescope to go back much further in time to see the very birth of the Universe," said Edward Weiler, director of Nasa's Goddard Space Flight Centre. Martin Mohan of Northrop Grumman, the contractor building the telescope, said that the team was making excellent progress. "There's engineering to do, but invention is done, more than six years ahead of launch," he said. When ready, the JWST will be launched by a European Ariane 5 rocket. It is expected to have a 10-year lifespan. Until then, the 17-year-old Hubble telescope will continue to do its work. Nasa plans to send astronauts on the space shuttle to service it in 2008. THE JAMES WEBB SPACE TELESCOPE JWST is named after James E Webb, Nasa Administrator during the Apollo lunar exploration era; he served from 1961 to 1968 It will be placed 1.5m km from Earth, at Lagrange Point 2, an area of gravitational balance that keeps it in a Sun-Earth line The telescope will be shaded from sunlight by a shield, enabling it to stay cold, increasing its sensitivity to infrared radiation Three principal instruments will gather images of the Universe in the infrared region of the spectrum These will yield new information about how stars and galaxies first formed a few hundred million years after the Big Bang E-mail this to a friend Telescope mirror nears completion 08 Feb 07 | Science/Nature First stars in telescope's sights 12 Jan 07 | Science/Nature Large camera delights astronomers 10 Nov 03 | Science/Nature The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Pope names Brazil's first saint UK police face no action on shooting Virginia Tech students graduating MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/asia-pacific/6646297.stm	BBC NEWS | World | Asia-Pacific | 'New proof' of Japan sex slaves Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 13:00 GMT 14:00 UK E-mail this to a friend 'New proof' of Japan sex slaves About 200,000 women worked as Japanese sex slaves in WWII Reports from Japan say documents have been found that suggest the Japanese forced women to work as sex slaves during World War II. They come from the Dutch government archives and include the testimony of a 27-year-old Dutch woman from May 1946. The Kyodo news agency says the documents show women were coerced into prostitution in occupied Indonesia. Japan's PM Shinzo Abe had claimed no evidence existed to prove that women had been forced to work as sex slaves. The documents are reported to have been found by a Japanese journalist investigating Japan's wartime crimes in Asia. The Dutch woman's testimony says she had her clothes ripped off her by Japanese military police. She says she was taken to a brothel and forced to work as a prostitute, despite her efforts to resist. That testimony, it is claimed, was submitted to the Tokyo War Crimes Tribunal as evidence of forced mass prostitution in Magelang, in what is now Central Java, in 1944. Other documents are said to include further allegations that the Japanese forced women into prostitution. Earlier this year Prime Minister Abe said that investigations had failed to find any documentary evidence that the Japanese authorities in wartime had issued orders to soldiers to coerce women into sex slavery. He said though that he stood by a Japanese government apology to the women, known in Japan as "comfort women". The journalist who found these documents says they contradict the prime minister's denial that the authorities were directly involved in coercion. The Japanese Foreign Ministry says it is aware of his claims but has not seen the documents so cannot comment on what they might contain. It says the Japanese government has investigated its wartime activities in Indonesia thoroughly and acknowledges and apologises for the country's wartime use of sex slaves. E-mail this to a friend Abe explains sex slave comments 27 Apr 07 | Asia-Pacific Japan's Abe heads to Washington 26 Apr 07 | Asia-Pacific Japan PM apology on sex slaves 26 Mar 07 | Asia-Pacific Viewpoints: Abe sex slave row 21 Mar 07 | Asia-Pacific Japan anger at US sex slave bill 19 Feb 07 | Asia-Pacific 26 Sep 06 | Asia-Pacific The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Koreas agree cross-border train 'New proof' of Japan sex slaves Ramos-Horta 'wins E Timor poll' MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/business/6646865.stm	BBC NEWS | Business | Spanish law targets house prices Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 13:14 GMT 14:14 UK E-mail this to a friend Spanish law targets house prices Spanish real estate prices have risen more than 150% in 10 years The Spanish Parliament has passed a law aimed at controlling property speculators whom the government blames for spiralling house prices. Official documents will list everybody who has owned any piece of land in the five years before its development. Senior local government officials will also have to declare their assets. A number of local officials have been arrested recently on allegations of fraud, money laundering and corruption linked to housing projects. In one of the biggest cases, nearly 60 people were arrested in the southern resort of Marbella, including a former mayor, several councillors, developers, art dealers and even a well-known singer. The government hopes that reducing the number of speculators and the degree of corruption will bring down prices. "With the instruments of this law we should put the brakes on exorbitant house prices," said Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero. The new law also reserves 30% of future property development for social housing and allows for planning decisions taken over the past two years to be reviewed under certain circumstances. It will come into force on 1 July, a few days after municipal and regional elections are held in Spain. E-mail this to a friend Spanish homeowners face tricky times 27 Apr 07 | Business Spain hit by property crash fears 25 Apr 07 | Business Ex-pat retirees told 'think ahead' 11 Dec 06 | UK Sunset for Spanish property dreams 08 Aug 05 | Real Story Brits abroad 'shun local culture' 26 Jun 05 | UK Inflation 'pushing up pay deals' People 'pay less into pensions' Postal workers to vote on strikes MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/world/europe/6646239.stm	BBC NEWS | World | Europe | Serbian parties in coalition deal Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 19:46 GMT 20:46 UK E-mail this to a friend Serbian parties in coalition deal Vojislav Kostunica will stay on as prime minister Serbia's main pro-reform parties have agreed to form a government, keeping out the largest party in parliament, the hardline nationalist Radicals. The coalition was agreed more than three months after the general election, and four days before a deadline for new polls expired. Serbian President Boris Tadic said caretaker Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica would stay on in the post. Radical parliamentary speaker Tomislav Nikolic has said he will resign. A parliamentary session will be held on Sunday to approve the new government. The deal was reached after hours of negotiations between President Tadic, leader of the Democratic Party, and Mr Kostunica, from the Democratic Party of Serbia (DSS). It has been reported that the ministries of defence and interior will be divided between these two parties. Democratic Party of Serbia (DSS) Earlier this week, Mr Nikolic was elected parliamentary speaker, prompting fears that Serbia could abandon the road to reform. The nationalist Radicals became the largest party in parliament in the January election. But no party has enough seats to govern alone. Reports said President Tadic, whose party is the most pro-Western, would take charge of the national security council, responsible for the hunt for the fugitive Bosnian Serb wartime leaders Ratko Mladic and Radovan Karadzic. The agreement involves the Democratic Party, the DSS, G-17 and New Serbia. The BBC's Nick Hawton in Belgrade says the deal marks an end to the immediate political crisis facing Serbia. But he says an even greater challenge lies ahead. The UN Security Council is currently discussing a plan to give Kosovo its independence, something demanded by its majority Albanian population. Serbia strongly opposes the plan and has vowed never to accept it. E-mail this to a friend VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS Moves to end months of political deadlock in Serbia 08 May 07 | Country profiles Political uncertainty stalks Serbia 08 May 07 | Europe Serbian media gloom at Radical's election 08 May 07 | Europe Serbian coalition struggle begins 22 Jan 07 | Europe Serbia nationalists claim victory 22 Jan 07 | Europe Kosovo looms large in Serb poll 18 Jan 07 | Europe Serbian Radical Party (in Serbian) The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Polish court strikes down spy law Serbian parties in coalition deal Last goodbye for Blair and Chirac MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/europe/6648435.stm	BBC NEWS | World | Europe | Polish court strikes down spy law Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 21:54 GMT 22:54 UK E-mail this to a friend Polish court strikes down spy law Many Poles approved of the vetting proposals Poland's constitutional court has struck down sections of a controversial law aimed at uncovering collaboration with the communist-era secret police. The law, which came into force in March, required up to 700,000 people to confess if they were informants. But the country's highest court has decided that sections of the law violate Poland's constitution. The law broadened existing rules on disclosing collaboration to "people filling a public function". Previously, only senior public servants were required to reveal involvement with the secret police. The new law would have also covered teachers, academics and journalists, who would have been barred from working for a public company for a decade if they refused to co-operate or lied. The state must respect human rights and not have recourse to vengeance The BBC's Adam Easton in Warsaw says the court's decision will be seen as damaging to Prime Minister Jaroslaw Kaczynski, whose party had introduced the legislation. The conservative government has made it a priority to purge ex-communists and their collaborators from public life. Reacting to the ruling, his twin brother, President Lech Kaczynski, a staunch anti-communist, said the matter was not yet closed. It is not clear if the government will carry out its earlier threat to open up all the secret police files to the public if the court ruled against the law. The ruling has seriously reduced the number of people who can now legally be screened. Delivering their ruling, the judges chastised the government saying it should not seek vengeance in dealing with the country's communist past. "The vetting law can only be applied to individuals, not collectively," said presiding judge, Justice Jerzy Stepien. The opposition Democratic Left Alliance, mainly made up of former communists, had argued that the law violated the right to free speech. Journalists and academics were also critical of the legislation, saying the law was itself reminiscent of communist times, when people were forced to sign loyalty pledges. E-mail this to a friend Poland widens hunt for ex-spies 15 Mar 07 | Europe New Warsaw archbishop appointed 03 Mar 07 | Europe Legacy of communist-era collaboration 09 Jan 07 | Europe 09 Jan 07 | Country profiles Albanian MPs want ex-spies named 31 Oct 06 | Europe Secret files haunt Eastern Europe 21 Aug 06 | Europe Poland moves against former spies 21 Jul 06 | Europe The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Polish court strikes down spy law Serbian parties in coalition deal Last goodbye for Blair and Chirac MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/south_asia/6647005.stm	BBC NEWS | World | South Asia | US admits Afghan civilians killed Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 16:44 GMT 17:44 UK E-mail this to a friend US admits Afghan civilians killed US forces said they called in air support US-led forces have admitted civilians were killed in fighting with Taleban insurgents this week in the southern Afghan province of Helmand. Local officials say at least 21 people died when US-led forces called in air strikes against militants near Sangin. In turn, a local elder ordered the killing of a Taleban commander for ambushing the US-led ground forces and triggering the air strikes. The fighting, near the town of Sangin, has been continuing. One child, who was evacuated to a Coalition medical treatment facility nearby, later died of wounds "There are confirmed reports of civilian casualties; however, it is unknown... how many," a statement from US-led coalition troops said. It said up to 20 wounded villagers had been treated by coalition forces. It is the third time in recent months that US special forces, who operate outside Nato remit, have been accused of causing significant civilian casualties. Public discontent in Afghanistan is growing over the rising number of civilian casualties and the government's failure to improve the lives of most Afghans. The US military say they called in air strikes on Tuesday night after US special forces and Afghan troops came under mortar, rocket and small arms fire while on patrol 25km (15 miles) north of Sangin. Senate urges Taleban talks Civilian deaths 'shame' US The aircraft destroyed "three enemy command and control compounds", spokesmen said on Wednesday. They said troops had killed a "significant" number of militants. Locals said villages had been hit, and children and women were among the dead. One villager quoted by Reuters news agency denied Taleban fighters had used them as "human shields". However, in the aftermath of the battle, a Taleban commander, Haji Wali Mohammad, was killed at the orders of a local elder who criticised his men for using local people's homes to fight from. The elder said that by ambushing the Americans, the Taleban had brought the bombs to the villages. The elder was then killed in retaliation by other Taleban fighters, according to reports from local people. There are more than 11,000 US troops in Afghanistan outside of the Nato mandate who are involved in counter terrorism and training the Afghan security forces. The US-led coalition statement on Friday said a joint inquiry into the incident was being conducted with the Afghan army. It said a wounded child had died after being evacuated by the coalition for treatment. Foreign forces and Afghan troops are trying to drive militants from the lawless, opium-producing region of Sangin. The rising number of civilian casualties there and elsewhere in the country is putting President Hamid Karzai under increasing pressure. On Tuesday, the Afghan Senate urged him to open direct talks with local Taleban militants, and for attacks on them to stop. Earlier that day, the US military had said it was "deeply ashamed" over the killings of 19 Afghan civilians by US Marines in early March. Correspondents say that casualties in remote battle sites in Afghanistan are almost impossible to verify. Taleban fighters are often accused of seeking shelter in peoples' homes, leading to civilian casualties, and it is often difficult to determine if people killed in such air strikes were militants or civilians. E-mail this to a friend President Karzai's Afghanistan still faces daunting challenges, writes Lyse Doucet. Herat: A city reborn In pictures: Ordinary lives Pain of suicide women In graphics: Harsh realities Who are the militants? Travelling with the Taleban Views on foreign troops Should Nato boost presence? One Day in Afghanistan The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites TOP SOUTH ASIA STORIES Uttar Pradesh low caste landslide US admits Afghan civilians killed Karachi braced for judge protests MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/world/middle_east/6645777.stm	BBC NEWS | World | Middle East | New Jerusalem settlement planned Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 09:25 GMT 10:25 UK E-mail this to a friend New Jerusalem settlement planned Settlements cut off East Jerusalem from the occupied West Bank The Israeli authorities are planning to build three new Jewish neighbourhoods in East Jerusalem, an area regarded as occupied land under international law. The plan, which has yet to receive final approval, would involve building about 20,000 homes. The Palestinian chief negotiator, Saeb Erekat, said the plan destroyed efforts to re-start the peace process. He said Israel had to choose between settlements or peace, but could not have both. Yehoshua Pollak, Jerusalem's deputy mayor, said the intention was to create a contiguous Jewish residential area linking East Jerusalem with major West Bank settlement blocs. Israel has occupied East Jerusalem since 1967. It annexed the area in 1981 and sees it as its exclusive domain. This has not been recognised by the international community. Palestinians hope to establish the capital of their future state in the East Jerusalem. E-mail this to a friend Rival groups join forces in Gaza BBC's Johnston wins press award Hamas told to axe children's show MPs back beleaguered Israeli PM Israelis across the political spectrum unite at an anti-Olmert rally in Tel Aviv Wave of discontent in Israel Gulf in Mid-East narratives Timeline: Alan Johnston missing Israeli views on Halutz TOP MIDDLE EAST STORIES Clashes follow new Gaza operation Iraq leader says troops must stay New Jerusalem settlement planned MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/programmes/from_our_own_correspondent/6639385.stm	BBC NEWS | Programmes | From Our Own Correspondent | A letter from Iraq to Tony Blair Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Thursday, 10 May 2007, 13:59 GMT 14:59 UK E-mail this to a friend A letter from Iraq to Tony Blair One issue threatens to overshadow Tony Blair's legacy, affecting his image and standing at home and abroad, the decision to go to war in Iraq. Even at the time of Saddam's fall, people were wary of the future I have never written to a politician in my life. But I very nearly made an exception for Tony Blair. It was towards the end of 2002, when it was already clear that the invasion of Iraq was only a matter of time. I found myself deeply torn. I had no illusions about the nature of Saddam Hussein. I had followed his brutal antics for years. I had been to his Iraq, and felt the all-pervasive fear instilled by his vigilant and ruthless police state. What a relief it was to get on the plane and feel that oppressive weight lifted off your shoulders, an experience that most Iraqis were denied. But when Saddam's excesses were at their worst, during the war with Iran in the 1980s, he was actually being discreetly supported by the Americans. Washington was turning a blind eye to human rights reports from its own State Department detailing how Iraqi children were being tortured in front of their parents to get them to confess or inform. In 1988, when the Iraqi air force dropped chemical bombs which killed thousands of Kurds at Halabja, I remember phoning the Pentagon, and being told: "We think it was the Iranians who did it." So on a personal level, I would be glad to see the end of Saddam Hussein and his harsh dictatorship. It was clear, long before it happened, that this was going to be a terrible mess. It had to be But the impending invasion was clearly not about to happen because he was a bad man. It might be the right thing, but it was being done for the wrong reasons - reasons that had more to do with the global ambitions of the ascendant neo-conservatives in Washington, and their desire to engineer a New Order in the Middle East. The chosen pretexts for the war - Saddam's alleged weapons of mass destruction and links with international terror - turned out to be simply invalid. I have often thought, over these past four years, of that regular cartoon slot in the satirical magazine Private Eye, entitled "Things We Seldom See". It features situations which would be blindingly logical, but just never happen. I wanted to propose one where President Bush addresses Saddam Hussein and says: "Mr Hussein, you were right. There were no weapons of mass destruction, and no links with terrorism. We'd like to apologise, and give you your country back." Apart from misgivings about Washington's real motives and objectives, it was clear, long before it happened, that this was going to be a terrible mess. It had to be. Iraq is a patchwork country, an ethnic and confessional cocktail, of Arabs and Kurds, Turkomans and Chaldaeans, Sunnis and Shiites. Iraq has been plagued with civil unrest and violence Such countries are usually held together by a strong centralised dictatorship, which could be benign or tyrannical. As soon as you admit the concept of democracy and take the lid off, it is bound to be difficult and chaotic in the best of conditions, in a place with no democratic traditions or culture. To blow the regime and all its control mechanisms away virtually overnight, through the massive use of force by people from halfway around the world, would inevitably plunge the country and the region into a long period of chaos, whatever exact form it would take. That is why I lay sleepless in my bed in Tehran, mentally composing that letter to Tony Blair that I never wrote. I was going to tell him, on the basis of three decades living and working in the region, that he was on the brink of a massive historical blunder. I never sent it, because I knew of course that it would not make a blind bit of difference, apart from perhaps salving my own conscience, and allowing me to say: "I told you so" - something that would bring no satisfaction at all. And so, four years on, look at what a terrible mess Mr Blair can now say goodbye to, and hand on to Gordon Brown. Where there used to be tight state control, there is massive terrorism on a daily basis. The Americans have been bombing Baghdad again, to quell Sunni militants and Shiite militias. At the end of the day, the British are minor players, politically important partners brought in on the coat-tails of the Americans They are building walls to separate districts, euphemistically calling them "gated communities". Millions of Iraqis have fled the country. In the south, British troops are trying to stifle Shiite militias which know they only have to wait, because the British will be gone before long. A transition of leadership in London is not going to make much difference on the ground in Iraq. Gordon Brown will be locked into a situation which he might or might not have chosen to get into in the first place, but will now be stuck with, and his options will be limited. At the end of the day, the British are minor players, politically important partners brought in on the coat-tails of the Americans. It is the outcome of their last-ditch struggle to control Baghdad and central Iraq that is crucial to the country's future. If it does not work, the coalition troops may start pulling out and we may find that Iraq's long nightmare has only just begun. From Our Own Correspondent was broadcast on Thursday, 10 May, 2007 at 1100 GMT on BBC Radio 4. Please check the for World Service transmission times. E-mail this to a friend Personal reflections by BBC correspondents around the world SEARCH FROM OUR OWN CORRESPONDENT: Three Ways to Listen From Our Own Correspondent THE STRUGGLE FOR IRAQ US House passes Iraq funding bill Cheney addresses troops in Iraq US Marine 'shot unarmed Iraqis' Bush 'would veto new Iraq bill' Car bomb explodes in Iraqi city The Iraq summit was a limited success for US contacts with Iran and Syria Despair as Baghdad plan falters Massacre fuels northern tensions Baghdad: Mapping the violence Iraq violence in figures Baker's sweet smell of success Your views: Iraq four years on TV reports on Iraq MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/uk/6646537.stm	BBC NEWS | UK | 11 Menezes police face no action Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 13:57 GMT 14:57 UK E-mail this to a friend 11 Menezes police face no action Mr Menezes was mistaken for a suicide bomber Eleven officers involved in the shooting of Brazilian Jean Charles de Menezes will not face disciplinary action, the police watchdog has said. They were among 15 Metropolitan Police officers interviewed by the Independent Police Complaints Commission (IPCC). Decisions have not been made on the four most senior officers investigated. The family of Mr Menezes - shot eight times at Stockwell Tube station after being mistaken for a suicide bomber - said the decision was "disgraceful". The 27-year-old was killed on 22 July 2005, one day after the failed London bombings. The IPCC said a surveillance officer, one of the 11 not facing disciplinary action, would be given "management advice" in relation to action he took after the shooting. It is a travesty of justice and another slap in the face for our family Patricia da Silva Armani, Mr Menezes' cousin It said a decision on whether the four commanders and tactical advisers investigated should be disciplined would be made after the end of court proceedings. The Crown Prosecution Service previously found no evidence to warrant the prosecution of any individual over the shooting of Mr Menezes, an electrician. However, Scotland Yard is facing prosecution under health and safety laws over the incident. The trial is due to start in October. Patricia da Silva Armani, Mr Menezes' cousin, said: "It is a travesty of justice and another slap in the face for our family. "The police officers' lives go on as normal while we exist in turmoil, fighting to get the answers and justice we deserve." The Justice4Jean Campaign questioned the decision to clear the officers before the health and safety case is brought. "This is entirely premature and, worse still, may potentially prejudice any future criminal proceedings," a spokesman said. The grief and anger of his family is entirely understandable and - as I have been powerfully reminded - remains unassuaged IPCC chairman Nick Hardwick "This sends out the signal that no action against officers will ever be taken in this case, which is devastating for the family." The Menezes family said they believed there were grounds for gross negligence manslaughter criminal charges against the four senior officers. A spokeswoman, speaking on their behalf, said: "We hope ultimately that all the officers about whom evidence emerges of wrongdoing that led to this wrongful death are ultimately rendered fully accountable," the spokeswoman added. The IPCC's chairman, Nick Hardwick, said he understood the feelings of Mr Menezes' family. "The grief and anger of his family is entirely understandable and - as I have been powerfully reminded - remains unassuaged," he said. "I would not do anything lightly that adds to that grief or anger." But he said although Mr Menezes was "entirely innocent" there was "no realistic prospect" of disciplinary charges being upheld against the firearms or surveillance officers involved, including the two officers directly responsible for the fatal shooting . They were facing the "challenge" of the wake of the 7/7 London bombings, he added. The human rights group, Liberty, condemned the delay in deciding whether the more senior officers should be punished. The Metropolitan Police welcomed the IPCC recommendation but said the shooting of Mr Menezes was "a matter of very deep regret" to the service and said its thoughts were "with his family". A spokesman added: "There is no doubt that the events of July 2005 brought significant challenges to the Met and during this time many officers operated under difficult and dangerous conditions to protect London and Londoners." E-mail this to a friend VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS The Menezes' family solicitor on their "shock" Get the latest breaking news delivered to your desktop or mobile device Met not guilty plea over Menezes Menezes inquest will be delayed Police delay plea in Menezes case Vigil to mark anniversary No charges for Menezes officers Clickable guide to the shooting Mr Menezes' relatives protest at decision against charges Anger in Brazilian hometown Profile: Jean Charles de Menezes Young Brazilians fleeing poverty Profile: Sir Ian Blair Menezes decision: Your reaction Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Madeleine parents 'won't give up' 11 Menezes police face no action MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/south_asia/6647517.stm	BBC NEWS | World | South Asia | Kidnapped French aid worker freed Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 16:10 GMT 17:10 UK E-mail this to a friend Kidnapped French aid worker freed The two French hostages have now been released A French aid worker kidnapped by the Taleban in Afghanistan on 3 April has been released in Kandahar province, a Taleban spokesman has told the BBC. The Red Cross has confirmed the news, saying Eric Damfreville was handed over to them on Friday evening. There is no news on the fate of three Afghans also abducted by the Taleban in south-west Afghanistan. A French woman, Celine Cordelier, who was kidnapped at the same time, was released on 28 April. The aid workers were employed by the French group Terre d'enfance (A World for our Children). Taleban spokesman Qari Mohammad Yousuf told the BBC Pashto service that the French man was freed in the Maiwand district of Kandahar, the same area where Ms Cordelier was freed. Mr Yousuf said the Taleban had freed Mr Damfreville because French President-elect Nicolas Sarkozy intended to withdraw French troops from Afghanistan. Mr Sarkozy indicated in April he was not committed to keeping French troops in Afghanistan. "It was certainly useful that we sent (the troops) in the context of the war against terrorism, but the long-term presence of French troops in that part of the world does not seem to me to be decisive," he said, Reuters news agency reports. The group of five were abducted in Nimroz province. E-mail this to a friend VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS Red Cross gives details of Mr Damfreville's release Get the latest breaking news delivered to your desktop or mobile device President Karzai's Afghanistan still faces daunting challenges, writes Lyse Doucet. Herat: A city reborn In pictures: Ordinary lives Pain of suicide women In graphics: Harsh realities Who are the militants? Travelling with the Taleban Views on foreign troops Should Nato boost presence? One Day in Afghanistan The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites TOP SOUTH ASIA STORIES Uttar Pradesh low caste landslide US admits Afghan civilians killed Karachi braced for judge protests MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/americas/6648835.stm	BBC NEWS | World | Americas | 'Hostages held' at Russia embassy Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 21:55 GMT 22:55 UK E-mail this to a friend 'Hostages held' at Russia embassy The number of hostages inside the embassy is unclear An armed man has entered the Russian embassy in Costa Rica's capital, San Jose, and is believed to be holding several hostages, police say. It is not clear whether Ambassador Valery Nikolayenko or any other diplomat is among those seized. Officials later said four hostages had been released but a number of others are still thought to be held. Police are continuing to surround the embassy. The identity of the gunman - believed to be from the ex-USSR - is not known. "My understanding is that it is a hostage seizure," Costa Rican Public Security Minister Fernando Berrocal was quoted as saying by the AFP news agency. However, Russia's Itar-Tass news agency quoted unnamed Russian diplomats in Costa Rica as saying the incident was a quarrel between two visitors, not a hostage crisis. E-mail this to a friend Get the latest breaking news delivered to your desktop or mobile device Pope names Brazil's first saint UK police face no action on shooting Virginia Tech students graduating MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/world/south_asia/6647517.stm	BBC NEWS | World | South Asia | Kidnapped French aid worker freed Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 16:10 GMT 17:10 UK E-mail this to a friend Kidnapped French aid worker freed The two French hostages have now been released A French aid worker kidnapped by the Taleban in Afghanistan on 3 April has been released in Kandahar province, a Taleban spokesman has told the BBC. The Red Cross has confirmed the news, saying Eric Damfreville was handed over to them on Friday evening. There is no news on the fate of three Afghans also abducted by the Taleban in south-west Afghanistan. A French woman, Celine Cordelier, who was kidnapped at the same time, was released on 28 April. The aid workers were employed by the French group Terre d'enfance (A World for our Children). Taleban spokesman Qari Mohammad Yousuf told the BBC Pashto service that the French man was freed in the Maiwand district of Kandahar, the same area where Ms Cordelier was freed. Mr Yousuf said the Taleban had freed Mr Damfreville because French President-elect Nicolas Sarkozy intended to withdraw French troops from Afghanistan. Mr Sarkozy indicated in April he was not committed to keeping French troops in Afghanistan. "It was certainly useful that we sent (the troops) in the context of the war against terrorism, but the long-term presence of French troops in that part of the world does not seem to me to be decisive," he said, Reuters news agency reports. The group of five were abducted in Nimroz province. E-mail this to a friend VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS Red Cross gives details of Mr Damfreville's release Get the latest breaking news delivered to your desktop or mobile device President Karzai's Afghanistan still faces daunting challenges, writes Lyse Doucet. Herat: A city reborn In pictures: Ordinary lives Pain of suicide women In graphics: Harsh realities Who are the militants? Travelling with the Taleban Views on foreign troops Should Nato boost presence? One Day in Afghanistan The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites TOP SOUTH ASIA STORIES Uttar Pradesh low caste landslide US admits Afghan civilians killed Karachi braced for judge protests MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/americas/6645555.stm	BBC NEWS | World | Americas | Pope names Brazil's first saint Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 17:53 GMT 18:53 UK E-mail this to a friend Pope names Brazil's first saint Believers from across Latin America cheered and waved flags Pope Benedict XVI has canonised Brazil's first native-born saint, Friar Galvao, to the cheers of up to a million faithful gathered in Sao Paulo. The Pope announced the sainthood from a throne flanked by bishops and choirs, and overlooked by a giant wooden cross. The Church has attributed two miracles to Friar Galvao, an 18th Century monk who is still seen as influential. The open-air Mass marks the highlight of the Pope's five-day visit to the world's most populous Catholic nation. Hundreds of thousands of believers from across Latin America cheered and waved flags at Sao Paulo's Campo de Marte airfield. Many had spent the night there. The BBC's Gary Duffy in Sao Paulo says the Catholic Church in Brazil is hoping that the Pope's visit and the canonisation will help reinvigorate the local church, which has lost millions of faithful in recent years to evangelical churches. Brazil's first native-born saint Lived from 1739 to 1822 Credited by church with 5,000 miracle cures Founded monasteries and convents in Brazil Profile: Saint Antonio Galvao Pope visit: Reporter's diary During the Mass, the 80-year-old pontiff encouraged his listeners to follow the example of the new saint by helping the needy "in an age so full of hedonism". He lauded Friar Galvao as a model of rectitude and humility, and went on to criticise the elements of the media that ridiculed the sanctity of marriage and virginity before marriage. After canonising Friar Galvao, the Pope also hugged Sandra Grossi de Almeida and her seven-year-old son, Enzo. She is one of two Brazilian females who the Church says are evidence of divinely inspired miracles that justify Friar Galvao's sainthood. Friar Galvao is remembered for producing Latin prayers written on tiny balls of paper that, when swallowed, had the apparent effect of curing a range of ailments. After taking one of these pills, Ms Almeida, who had a uterine malformation that should have made it impossible for her to carry a child for more than four months, gave birth to Enzo. Friar Galvao is also certified by the Church as healing a four-year-old girl said to have been considered incurable by doctors. I hope Pope Benedict XVI can help to resurrect our Brazilian Catholic identity Philippe Gebara, Rio de Janeiro Send us your comments Following the Mass, the Pope met some 430 Brazilian bishops at a Sao Paulo cathedral. Another highlight of the Pope's trip comes on Sunday, when a crowd of at least 350,000 people is expected to celebrate Mass in Aparecida, where the Pope will also take part in a conference of Latin American bishops. The forum, the first for 15 years, will bring together nearly 200 bishops and cardinals from Latin America and the Caribbean to set out the Church's agenda and future policies in the region. 'Sheep without a shepherd' On Thursday, the Pope received a rapturous reception from an audience of tens of thousands of young people gathered at a Sao Paulo stadium. Brazilians give their views on the Pope's stance on abortion and contraception His address focused on what he called the "snares of evil" - pre-marital sex, drug use, corruption, violence and the temptations of wealth and power. He urged the young to avoid these and asked them to "be promoters of life, from its beginning to its natural end". The Pope sparked controversy as soon as he arrived in Brazil on Wednesday by stressing his strong opposition to abortion, the subject of intense debate in the country, where some Brazilians are pushing for the legalisation of terminations. The World Health Organisation estimates that illegal abortions numbered more than a million in Brazil last year alone. E-mail this to a friend VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS Images from the open-air Mass in Sao Paulo Pope's Brazil tour: Diary Day Three 11 May 07 | Americas In pictures: Pope names Brazil saint 11 May 07 | In Pictures Catholic Church tested in Brazil 09 May 07 | Americas Wartime Pope on path to sainthood 09 May 07 | Europe Call for Brazil abortion debate 09 Apr 07 | Americas Factfile: Roman Catholics around the world 01 Apr 05 | World The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Pope names Brazil's first saint UK police face no action on shooting Virginia Tech students graduating MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/help/rss/4498287.stm	BBC NEWS | Help | RSS | BBC RSS Feed: Standard Licence Terms Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it BBC RSS Feed: Standard Licence Terms By downloading a BBC RSS Feed ( "BBC Feed") from the British Broadcasting Corporation ("BBC") you agree to be bound by the terms set out below (the "Standard Licence Terms"). These Standard Licence Terms may be updated by the BBC from time to time. Please review these Standard Licence Terms each time you download a BBC Feed. Your download and/or use of a BBC Feed indicates your agreement to these Standard Licence Terms. 1.1 Subject to the terms of this Agreement the BBC grants you a non-transferrable, non-sublicensable, royalty free non-exclusive licence to display on your website ("Site") the headlines, active links or other source identifiers and other information or materials that you specifically select to receive from the BBC via the BBC Feed ("BBC Content"). 1.2 All title, ownership rights and intellectual property rights in and to the BBC Feed shall remain the property of the BBC. 1.3 Nothing in these Standard Licence Terms grants you any right to use the BBC trade mark on your Site or elsewhere. 2. Use of BBC Content 2.1 You may not use the Feed or display any BBC Content on any Site that is a web site that is excluded by the BBC (scroll down for the list of Excluded Websites as may be amended by the BBC from time to time). 2.2 YOU MUST ENSURE THAT ALL BBC CONTENT ON YOUR SITE HAS AN ACCREDITATION TO THE BBC IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE BBC ACCREDITATION GUIDELINES FROM TIME TO TIME (SCROLL DOWN FOR THE BBC ACCREDITATION GUIDELINES AS MAY BE AMENDED BY THE BBC FROM TIME TO TIME). 2.3 YOU MAY NOT DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY CHARGE USERS SPECIFICALLY FOR ACCESSING BBC CONTENT OR OTHERWISE COMMERCIALISE SUCH CONTENT, NOR ATTEMPT TO RE-SELL THE BBC CONTENT IN ANY WAY. 2.4 Where possible you must create a functional link back to the BBC News story(ies) summarised by the BBC Content . If you are displaying the BBC Feed where a functional link back to the BBC is not possible, you must display on-screen the URL from which the BBC Content can be obtained (scroll down to the accreditation section below.) You may not directly or indirectly change, edit, add to or produce summaries of the BBC Content or any content on the BBC website nor place any full-story BBC content in an HTML frame-set. 2.5 You may not directly or indirectly suggest any endorsement or approval by the BBC of your Site or any non-BBC entity, product or content or any views expressed within your site or service. 2.6 You acknowledge that the BBC has absolute editorial control over all BBC Content and you accept that the BBC is editorially independent and that the editorial integrity of the BBC Content is the sole responsibility of the BBC. 2.7 Should you receive any enquiries which relate to the BBC or the BBC Content you should promptly refer such enquiries to www.bbc.co.uk/info/contactus. 3. Warranties & Liability 3.1 You warrant to the BBC that: (i) you have fully complied with, and shall continue to comply fully with, all applicable laws and regulations; (ii) the Site shall contain no material which is libellous, defamatory, pornographic, obscene or which brings the BBC into disrepute, or which is in breach of any third party intellectual property rights; and (iii) users of the Site shall be required to comply with terms that are equivalent to the Standard Licence Terms in relation to their use of BBC Content. 3.2 The BBC Feed is made available by the BBC on an "as is" and "as available" basis and the BBC gives no warranty of any kind in relation to the BBC Feed, the BBC Content, or any content on the BBC website. The BBC disclaims all implied warranties, including but not limited to the implied warranties of satisfactory quality, fitness for a particular purpose, non-infringement, compatibility, and accuracy regarding the BBC Content, the BBC Feed and the BBC website and any content thereon. 3.3 TO THE MAXIMUM EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW THE BBC EXCLUDES ALL LIABILITY TO YOU FOR ANY LOSS OR DAMAGE HOWSOEVER ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THIS AGREEMENT, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO ANY LIABILITY ARISING IN RELATION TO THE BBC FEED, THE BBC CONTENT OR ANY CONTENT ON THE BBC WEBSITE, ANY VIRUS OR OTHER CONTAMINATION OR ANY UNAVAILABILITY OF BBC CONTENT. 3.4 Each provision of this Clause 3 operates separately in itself and survives independently of the others. 4.1 You hereby agree to indemnify, hold harmless and defend the BBC in respect of all damages, costs and expenses, including reasonable legal fees and litigation expenses, arising out of or as a result of any breach of the Standard Licence Terms or otherwise in connection with your use of the BBC Feed (including the BBC Content). 5.1 You may terminate this Agreement and the licence granted herein at any time by destroying or removing all copies of the BBC Feed (including the BBC Content) from your Site, all hard drives, networks and other storage media. 5.2 The BBC may restrict, suspend or terminate the BBC Feed, this Agreement, the licence granted herein or your access to the BBC Feed at any time without liability. You agree to destroy all copies of the BBC Feed (including the BBC Content) upon receiving notice of termination from the BBC. 5.3 Clauses 3, 4 and 6 shall survive termination of this Agreement. 6.1 Neither party may assign, charge, sublicense or otherwise deal with its rights or obligations in this Agreement in whole or in part to any third party. 6.2 This Agreement supersedes all prior agreements, arrangements and understandings between the parties concerning its subject matter. Each of the parties acknowledges that it has not relied on any statement made by the other in the course of entering into this Agreement. 6.3 Any failure or delay by either party in exercising its rights under any provisions of this Agreement shall not be construed as a waiver of those rights at any time now or in the future. 6.4 This Agreement shall be governed by, construed and take effect in accordance with English law and the English courts shall have exclusive jurisdiction to settle any claim or dispute which may arise out of or in connection with this Agreement. The BBC's RSS feeds and any BBC content contained in the BBC RSS feeds may only be displayed on websites that do not fall into any one or more of the categories listed below. A site will be deemed to fall within one of the following categories where there is a material and prominent section of the Site that falls within such category. 1. Sites that incite hatred whether based on race, religion, gender, sexuality or otherwise, or promote encourage or facilitate anti-social behaviour 2. Sites that promote, encourage or facilitate violence 3. Sites that promote, encourage or facilitate terrorism or other activities that risk UK national security 4. Sites that discriminate against any specific social group or otherwise exploit vulnerable sections of society 5. Sites that promote, facilitate or encourage illegal activity 6. Sites which are misleading, pornographic, defamatory, or that contain illegal, or otherwise actionable content under UK law 7. Sites which infringe individual privacy (based on the parameters laid down in the "Privacy" chapter of the BBC's Any BBC RSS feed or BBC content on your site must incorporate an attribution (credit) to the BBC in one of the following forms: "From BBC News / BBC Sport / bbc.co.uk" (delete as applicable), or "This content / article is from BBC News / BBC Sport/ the BBC News website / the BBC Sport website / bbc.co.uk" (delete as applicable) If you are displaying a BBC RSS feed in a context where a functional link back to the article on the BBC's website is not possible then you use the following attribution (credit) From bbc.co.uk/news or bbc.co.uk/sport (delete as applicable) If used as part of the BBC BackStage project, then the following wording needs to be added: You may not use any BBC logo or other BBC trade mark without signing a BBC trade mark licence agreement. MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/world/default.stm	BBC NEWS | World Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Radio 4's Midnight News Friday, 11 May 2007, 23:02 GMT 00:02 UK Pope names Brazil's first saint Pope Benedict XVI canonises Brazil's first saint before a crowd of a million people in the city of Sao Paulo. Reporter's diary: Day three UN to decide on Zimbabwe key role Zimbabwe is expected to be chosen to head a key UN body, as its ambassador rejects Western objections. Polish court strikes down spy law Poland's highest court rules that parts of a controversial vetting law violate the country's constitution. 'Hostages' held at Russia mission Iraq leader says troops must stay Serbian parties in coalition deal Taleban free French aid worker Virginia Tech students graduating Last goodbye for Blair and Chirac ALSO IN THE NEWS Paris Hilton jail sentence could be halved, LA officials say The confused penguin who strayed 5,000km from home Tennis: Nadal powers into semi F1: Alonso bounces back Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Hard bargaining as Democrats and White House seek Iraq deal Cold War workers challenge Denmark over B52 crash VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS Thousands flee California wildfires Brazil's first saint honoured Taleban free French aid man More Video / Audio News WORLD SERVICE RADIO PROGRAMMES MOST POPULAR VIDEO AND AUDIO Did You See? The week's highlights Boy hatches supermarket egg Brazil's first saint honoured Battle on Haifa Street Computer security threat guide AROUND THE WORLD NOW Guinea soldiers suspend protest Africa air staff 'being poached' UK police face no action on shooting US general warns against torture Koreas agree cross-border train 'New proof' of Japan sex slaves Galileo firms miss key deadline Scholar defends Pope Pius' record Clashes follow new Gaza operation New Jerusalem settlement planned Uttar Pradesh low caste landslide US admits Afghan civilians killed MORE FROM BBC NEWS FROM OUR OWN CORRESPONDENT A letter from Iraq to Tony Blair Blair passes on his African vision Making a public splash in Saudi As a French person, I'm surprised the UK's leader can be swapped so easily without the British people majority's agreement 'New leads' in Madeleine search Hilton backs online pardon appeal Police 'unsure' Madeleine alive Mother in plea over missing girl Sarkozy takes French presidency The potential winners and losers at the Eurovision final Send us your questions for the Libyan leader Missing for 61 days Two ways you can show support for BBC's Alan Johnston ELSEWHERE ON THE BBC Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/world/americas/6647509.stm	BBC NEWS | World | Americas | Virginia Tech students graduating Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 17:32 GMT 18:32 UK E-mail this to a friend Virginia Tech students graduating Thousands of students are getting their degrees The US university where 32 students and staff members were killed in a gun rampage last month is preparing to stage its annual graduation ceremony. Thousands of students will be honoured at the event at Virginia Tech, where student Cho Seung-hui, 23, went on a shooting spree before killing himself. The 27 students who were shot dead will receive posthumous degrees. About 5,000 students will be presented degrees at the ceremony, which will be attended by some 30,000 people. The former commander of US armed forces in the Middle East, Gen John Abizaid, whose son attends the university, will deliver an address. Security at the Blacksburg university has been heightened for the graduation weekend, with extra police deployed at the campus. "Virginia Tech remains under a state of alert since April 16th," said spokesman Mark Owczarski, adding that the visible police presence brings a "sense of safety and protection". In addition, he said Gen Abizaid "brings with him a degree of security". Student Andrea Falletti, who will receive a degree in business management, said she would not let recent events overshadow the importance of the day. "Obviously, what has happened has affected everything in our lives, and it will affect graduation," she told AP news agency. "In a way, it's not going to be celebrating us as much - it's more about what we've done as a community. But that's OK. I'm proud of what we've done here." In Washington, President George W Bush issued a statement praising "the compassion and resilient spirit" of the university community "Laura and I salute the Virginia Tech Class of 2007. We also remember the students and teachers whose lives were taken last month," he said. "They will always hold a special place in the hearts of this graduating class and an entire nation." E-mail this to a friend Stunned residents of Virginia Tech grieve in earnest Campus killer's family 'so sorry' Virginia mourns massacre victims Inquiry to probe Virginia killing Virginia shootings: The victims In pictures: Chilling video In quotes: Gunman's message Koreans shocked and saddened 'Police came out of nowhere' How Virginia Tech gunman fits the pattern of campus killers Loner filled with anger and spite Q&A: US campus killings Profile of the killer Virginia shootings: Your reaction The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Pope names Brazil's first saint UK police face no action on shooting Virginia Tech students graduating MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/world/south_asia/6643953.stm	BBC NEWS | World | South Asia | Uttar Pradesh low caste landslide Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 17:13 GMT 18:13 UK E-mail this to a friend Uttar Pradesh low caste landslide BSP supporters see their party set for government India's low-caste Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) has swept to a historic victory in assembly elections in the key northern state of Uttar Pradesh. With all but a handful of results declared, the BSP had won 202 of the 403 seats to allow it to form its own government, Indian media reports said. It is the first time since 1991 that any party in the state has done so. Uttar Pradesh is India's most populous state and has long been its most politically influential. I thank people of all castes and communities who supported my party Blow to economic reform? The BBC's Sanjoy Majumder in Delhi says the result represents a major setback for India's mainstream political parties who faired poorly in polls which observers believe could help determine India's political future. He says many believe it is significant that BSP leader Ms Mayawati - a fiery politician from the poor, deprived Dalit (formerly untouchable) caste - has managed to spread her political appeal and that it may not be long before India votes in a lower caste prime minister. Jubilant, flag-waving BSP supporters gathered on Friday outside Ms Mayawati's residence in Lucknow, the capital of Uttar Pradesh. Mayawati is a Dalit, at the bottom of the caste system Dancing party supporters set off fire crackers and celebrated with sweets. Ms Mayawati now begins her fourth term in office, but hers will not this time be a coalition government. "I thank people of all castes and communities who supported my party to achieve this overwhelming victory," she told a news conference. Outgoing chief minister Mulayam Singh Yadav had earlier admitted defeat and resigned. His Samajwadi Party came a poor second, far behind the BSP. India's two main political parties - the governing Congress and the main opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) - also did very badly. Both have been on the decline in Uttar Pradesh in recent years. The poor Congress showing came despite a high-profile campaign by Rahul Gandhi - the fourth generation of the famous dynasty. Former Chief Minister Mulayam Singh Yadav has admitted defeat Ms Mayawati's support base is mostly with the lower caste and poor communities who form a significant percentage of the Uttar Pradesh electorate. The elections were held in seven phases over a month for logistical reasons. None of the phases had a turnout higher than 50%. The vote will also be remembered for having seen no significant violence, unlike in the past. Caste and religion have been dominant factors in politics over the past two decades in Uttar Pradesh, one of India's poorest states. Uttar Pradesh is also plagued by corruption, and lags behind other parts of India in areas like development and health. Because of its sheer size and numbers, Uttar Pradesh, commonly called UP, holds an important place in the Indian political system. More than 49 million people were eligible to vote at nearly 50,000 polling stations in Uttar Pradesh, watched over by thousands of police and paramilitary troops. The state has more than 175 million inhabitants. It sends 80 MPs - the highest number in India - to the federal parliament, more than any other state. It has produced most of India's prime ministers, including the Nehru-Gandhi dynasty. E-mail this to a friend 11 May 07 | South Asia India's reform programme suffers a blow 11 May 07 | South Asia Politics and the barrel of the gun 07 May 07 | South Asia Summer of discontent in Uttar Pradesh 17 Apr 07 | South Asia BJP protests in campaign CD row 09 Apr 07 | South Asia Muslim minority ruling suspended 06 Apr 07 | South Asia Hoping against hope in Uttar Pradesh 06 Apr 07 | South Asia India politician's wealth probed 01 Mar 07 | South Asia Election Commission of India The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites TOP SOUTH ASIA STORIES Uttar Pradesh low caste landslide US admits Afghan civilians killed Karachi braced for judge protests MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/americas/6647509.stm	BBC NEWS | World | Americas | Virginia Tech students graduating Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 17:32 GMT 18:32 UK E-mail this to a friend Virginia Tech students graduating Thousands of students are getting their degrees The US university where 32 students and staff members were killed in a gun rampage last month is preparing to stage its annual graduation ceremony. Thousands of students will be honoured at the event at Virginia Tech, where student Cho Seung-hui, 23, went on a shooting spree before killing himself. The 27 students who were shot dead will receive posthumous degrees. About 5,000 students will be presented degrees at the ceremony, which will be attended by some 30,000 people. The former commander of US armed forces in the Middle East, Gen John Abizaid, whose son attends the university, will deliver an address. Security at the Blacksburg university has been heightened for the graduation weekend, with extra police deployed at the campus. "Virginia Tech remains under a state of alert since April 16th," said spokesman Mark Owczarski, adding that the visible police presence brings a "sense of safety and protection". In addition, he said Gen Abizaid "brings with him a degree of security". Student Andrea Falletti, who will receive a degree in business management, said she would not let recent events overshadow the importance of the day. "Obviously, what has happened has affected everything in our lives, and it will affect graduation," she told AP news agency. "In a way, it's not going to be celebrating us as much - it's more about what we've done as a community. But that's OK. I'm proud of what we've done here." In Washington, President George W Bush issued a statement praising "the compassion and resilient spirit" of the university community "Laura and I salute the Virginia Tech Class of 2007. We also remember the students and teachers whose lives were taken last month," he said. "They will always hold a special place in the hearts of this graduating class and an entire nation." E-mail this to a friend Stunned residents of Virginia Tech grieve in earnest Campus killer's family 'so sorry' Virginia mourns massacre victims Inquiry to probe Virginia killing Virginia shootings: The victims In pictures: Chilling video In quotes: Gunman's message Koreans shocked and saddened 'Police came out of nowhere' How Virginia Tech gunman fits the pattern of campus killers Loner filled with anger and spite Q&A: US campus killings Profile of the killer Virginia shootings: Your reaction The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Pope names Brazil's first saint UK police face no action on shooting Virginia Tech students graduating MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/world/africa/6646217.stm	BBC NEWS | World | Africa | Africa air staff 'being poached' Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 11:57 GMT 12:57 UK E-mail this to a friend Africa air staff 'being poached' The Kenya Airways plane came down in dense mangrove swamps Middle Eastern and Asian companies lure away pilots, engineers and cabin crew trained in Africa, the head of the African Airlines Association has said. Christian Folly-Kossi told a two-day aviation conference that more needs to be done to stop Africa's aviation experts from being poached. He also called for increased security after a recent air crash in Cameroon. It remains unclear why a Kenya Airways Boeing 737 crashed into swampland, killing all 114 people on board. The plane went down shortly after take-off from Douala International Airport last week. Speaking in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, Mr Folly-Kossi said the "brain drain" was a serious problem for Africa's aviation industry. "African officials responsible for aviation must use their political and diplomatic power to stop the poaching, which threatens African airlines," the Reuters news agency reported him as saying. Meanwhile, the BBC's Randy Joe Sa'ah, in Cameroon, says there is growing anger about the slow recovery process among the families of the 114 crash victims. They say they are not being allowed access either to the crash site near Douala or to the morgue where the bodies are being stored. The chief executive of Kenya Airways, Titus Naikuni, has denied reports that the cockpit voice recorder had been found. He told a press conference broadcast on KBC TV that rescue efforts were still continuing, but heavy rains were hampering recovery efforts. E-mail this to a friend Questions raised by Cameroon crash 09 May 07 | Africa Flying in the face of adversity 18 Dec 06 | Africa Cameroon villagers hunt for bodies 07 May 07 | Africa Grief and confusion in Kenya 07 May 07 | Africa In pictures: Cameroon crash scene 07 May 07 | In Pictures Cameroon air crash site located 06 May 07 | Africa Kenya plane 'crashes in Cameroon' 05 May 07 | Africa 05 May 07 | Europe The African Airlines Association The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites UN to decide on Zimbabwe key role Guinea soldiers suspend protest Africa air staff 'being poached' MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/europe/6646239.stm	BBC NEWS | World | Europe | Serbian parties in coalition deal Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 19:46 GMT 20:46 UK E-mail this to a friend Serbian parties in coalition deal Vojislav Kostunica will stay on as prime minister Serbia's main pro-reform parties have agreed to form a government, keeping out the largest party in parliament, the hardline nationalist Radicals. The coalition was agreed more than three months after the general election, and four days before a deadline for new polls expired. Serbian President Boris Tadic said caretaker Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica would stay on in the post. Radical parliamentary speaker Tomislav Nikolic has said he will resign. A parliamentary session will be held on Sunday to approve the new government. The deal was reached after hours of negotiations between President Tadic, leader of the Democratic Party, and Mr Kostunica, from the Democratic Party of Serbia (DSS). It has been reported that the ministries of defence and interior will be divided between these two parties. Democratic Party of Serbia (DSS) Earlier this week, Mr Nikolic was elected parliamentary speaker, prompting fears that Serbia could abandon the road to reform. The nationalist Radicals became the largest party in parliament in the January election. But no party has enough seats to govern alone. Reports said President Tadic, whose party is the most pro-Western, would take charge of the national security council, responsible for the hunt for the fugitive Bosnian Serb wartime leaders Ratko Mladic and Radovan Karadzic. The agreement involves the Democratic Party, the DSS, G-17 and New Serbia. The BBC's Nick Hawton in Belgrade says the deal marks an end to the immediate political crisis facing Serbia. But he says an even greater challenge lies ahead. The UN Security Council is currently discussing a plan to give Kosovo its independence, something demanded by its majority Albanian population. Serbia strongly opposes the plan and has vowed never to accept it. E-mail this to a friend VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS Moves to end months of political deadlock in Serbia 08 May 07 | Country profiles Political uncertainty stalks Serbia 08 May 07 | Europe Serbian media gloom at Radical's election 08 May 07 | Europe Serbian coalition struggle begins 22 Jan 07 | Europe Serbia nationalists claim victory 22 Jan 07 | Europe Kosovo looms large in Serb poll 18 Jan 07 | Europe Serbian Radical Party (in Serbian) The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Polish court strikes down spy law Serbian parties in coalition deal Last goodbye for Blair and Chirac MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/programmes/from_our_own_correspondent/6639385.stm	BBC NEWS | Programmes | From Our Own Correspondent | A letter from Iraq to Tony Blair Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Thursday, 10 May 2007, 13:59 GMT 14:59 UK E-mail this to a friend A letter from Iraq to Tony Blair One issue threatens to overshadow Tony Blair's legacy, affecting his image and standing at home and abroad, the decision to go to war in Iraq. Even at the time of Saddam's fall, people were wary of the future I have never written to a politician in my life. But I very nearly made an exception for Tony Blair. It was towards the end of 2002, when it was already clear that the invasion of Iraq was only a matter of time. I found myself deeply torn. I had no illusions about the nature of Saddam Hussein. I had followed his brutal antics for years. I had been to his Iraq, and felt the all-pervasive fear instilled by his vigilant and ruthless police state. What a relief it was to get on the plane and feel that oppressive weight lifted off your shoulders, an experience that most Iraqis were denied. But when Saddam's excesses were at their worst, during the war with Iran in the 1980s, he was actually being discreetly supported by the Americans. Washington was turning a blind eye to human rights reports from its own State Department detailing how Iraqi children were being tortured in front of their parents to get them to confess or inform. In 1988, when the Iraqi air force dropped chemical bombs which killed thousands of Kurds at Halabja, I remember phoning the Pentagon, and being told: "We think it was the Iranians who did it." So on a personal level, I would be glad to see the end of Saddam Hussein and his harsh dictatorship. It was clear, long before it happened, that this was going to be a terrible mess. It had to be But the impending invasion was clearly not about to happen because he was a bad man. It might be the right thing, but it was being done for the wrong reasons - reasons that had more to do with the global ambitions of the ascendant neo-conservatives in Washington, and their desire to engineer a New Order in the Middle East. The chosen pretexts for the war - Saddam's alleged weapons of mass destruction and links with international terror - turned out to be simply invalid. I have often thought, over these past four years, of that regular cartoon slot in the satirical magazine Private Eye, entitled "Things We Seldom See". It features situations which would be blindingly logical, but just never happen. I wanted to propose one where President Bush addresses Saddam Hussein and says: "Mr Hussein, you were right. There were no weapons of mass destruction, and no links with terrorism. We'd like to apologise, and give you your country back." Apart from misgivings about Washington's real motives and objectives, it was clear, long before it happened, that this was going to be a terrible mess. It had to be. Iraq is a patchwork country, an ethnic and confessional cocktail, of Arabs and Kurds, Turkomans and Chaldaeans, Sunnis and Shiites. Iraq has been plagued with civil unrest and violence Such countries are usually held together by a strong centralised dictatorship, which could be benign or tyrannical. As soon as you admit the concept of democracy and take the lid off, it is bound to be difficult and chaotic in the best of conditions, in a place with no democratic traditions or culture. To blow the regime and all its control mechanisms away virtually overnight, through the massive use of force by people from halfway around the world, would inevitably plunge the country and the region into a long period of chaos, whatever exact form it would take. That is why I lay sleepless in my bed in Tehran, mentally composing that letter to Tony Blair that I never wrote. I was going to tell him, on the basis of three decades living and working in the region, that he was on the brink of a massive historical blunder. I never sent it, because I knew of course that it would not make a blind bit of difference, apart from perhaps salving my own conscience, and allowing me to say: "I told you so" - something that would bring no satisfaction at all. And so, four years on, look at what a terrible mess Mr Blair can now say goodbye to, and hand on to Gordon Brown. Where there used to be tight state control, there is massive terrorism on a daily basis. The Americans have been bombing Baghdad again, to quell Sunni militants and Shiite militias. At the end of the day, the British are minor players, politically important partners brought in on the coat-tails of the Americans They are building walls to separate districts, euphemistically calling them "gated communities". Millions of Iraqis have fled the country. In the south, British troops are trying to stifle Shiite militias which know they only have to wait, because the British will be gone before long. A transition of leadership in London is not going to make much difference on the ground in Iraq. Gordon Brown will be locked into a situation which he might or might not have chosen to get into in the first place, but will now be stuck with, and his options will be limited. At the end of the day, the British are minor players, politically important partners brought in on the coat-tails of the Americans. It is the outcome of their last-ditch struggle to control Baghdad and central Iraq that is crucial to the country's future. If it does not work, the coalition troops may start pulling out and we may find that Iraq's long nightmare has only just begun. From Our Own Correspondent was broadcast on Thursday, 10 May, 2007 at 1100 GMT on BBC Radio 4. Please check the for World Service transmission times. E-mail this to a friend Personal reflections by BBC correspondents around the world SEARCH FROM OUR OWN CORRESPONDENT: Three Ways to Listen From Our Own Correspondent THE STRUGGLE FOR IRAQ US House passes Iraq funding bill Cheney addresses troops in Iraq US Marine 'shot unarmed Iraqis' Bush 'would veto new Iraq bill' Car bomb explodes in Iraqi city The Iraq summit was a limited success for US contacts with Iran and Syria Despair as Baghdad plan falters Massacre fuels northern tensions Baghdad: Mapping the violence Iraq violence in figures Baker's sweet smell of success Your views: Iraq four years on TV reports on Iraq MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/world/middle_east/6645929.stm	BBC NEWS | World | Middle East | Clashes follow new Gaza operation Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 10:25 GMT 11:25 UK E-mail this to a friend Clashes follow new Gaza operation Soldiers from both main rival factions have deployed in Gaza Clashes in the Gaza Strip have left six Palestinians wounded, a day after a major security operation began aimed at try to curb violence and lawlessness. Hundreds of troops, some loyal to rival factions Hamas and Fatah, fanned out on the streets of Gaza on Thursday. Up to 400 people have died in clashes between Palestinian factions since the Islamist Hamas won last year's parliamentary elections. But the rival parties agreed to form a coalition government earlier this year. On Friday, a number of Palestinians, including civilians and security officers from forces controlled by Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas, were wounded in shootouts in Gaza City. A further two civilians were hurt when militants from the armed wing of Hamas opened fire in the Jabaliya refugee camp north of Gaza City, the AFP news agency reported. The circumstances surrounding this incident are not clear. Since the Israeli withdrawal from Gaza in 2005, the strip has seen a wave of infighting, armed robberies, deadly family feuds and kidnappings. Several attempts to halt the violence have failed, and the interior minister in the new Palestinian coalition government, Hani Qawasmi, has threatened to resign because he says his plan for restoring security has not been carried out. As many as 3,000 police were reported to have taken part in the initial operations launched on Thursday, the Associated Press reported. One official told the AFP news agency that troops took up positions in the north of Gaza at entrances to towns and at major road junctions. Witnesses said that security personnel were inspecting vehicles on the approach to Gaza City and asking passengers to show their identity cards. Officials said that forces loyal to Fatah and Hamas would now wear the same police uniform and answer to the interior ministry, which has been placed under the control of Mr Qawasmi, a political independent in the coalition government. The full details of the security plan are not known. The first phase was set to last 100 days and to cover traffic and crime fighting, the Associated Press said. E-mail this to a friend Rival groups join forces in Gaza BBC's Johnston wins press award Hamas told to axe children's show MPs back beleaguered Israeli PM Israelis across the political spectrum unite at an anti-Olmert rally in Tel Aviv Wave of discontent in Israel Gulf in Mid-East narratives Timeline: Alan Johnston missing Israeli views on Halutz TOP MIDDLE EAST STORIES Clashes follow new Gaza operation Iraq leader says troops must stay New Jerusalem settlement planned MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/sport1/hi/tennis/6648151.stm	BBC SPORT | Tennis | Nadal powers into Rome semi-final Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Friday, 11 May 2007, 21:19 GMT 22:19 UK E-mail this to a friend Nadal powers into Rome semi-final Nadal outmuscled and outplayed the Serb Rafael Nadal matched John McEnroe's one-surface record as he notched up his 75th consecutive win on clay, beating Novak Djokovic at the Rome Masters. Nadal's 6-2 6-3 quarter-final win saw him equal McEnroe's run on indoor carpet from 1983 to 1985. Djokovic has won three titles this year but stood little chance as Nadal earned a semi-final with Nikolay Daveydenko. He reached the last four as he struggled to a 1-6 6-3 6-3 win over clay specialist Tommy Robredo. Roger Federer's conqueror Filippo Volandri kept up his recent good form with a 6-2 6-3 win over 12th seed Tomas Berdych. His semi-final opponent will be sixth-seeded Fernando Gonzalez, who beat Juan Ignacio Chela 6-3 6-4. Nadal, who was hospitalised by dizziness on Thursday, was in such impressive form that his opponent even applauded some of his passing shots towards the end of the first set. The Spaniard broke Djokovic in the opening game of the match, and the Serb survived seven break points in his next two service games before putting a drop-volley wide in the seventh game to go 5-2 down. Nadal wrapped up the set with ease and in the second set, two long forehands in the seventh game gave him another crucial break. Djokovic was broken again in the ninth game and with that, he was defeated. Nadal is aiming to become the first player to win this French Open warm-up tournament three times in a row, but was full of praise for his 19-year-old opponent. "Djokovic is a difficult opponent and he made me work hard for the win," he said. "He will be one to look out for at the French Open." Davydenko admitted playing Nadal would be a big challenge, as he seems to have few weaknesses. "I saw Robredo was tired in the second set. He wasn't running so quick," he said. "But Nadal runs in the first set, the second set, third set, every set the same." Federer suffers shock Rome defeat 10 May 07 | Tennis Roddick sees off Gaudio in Rome 09 May 07 | Tennis Federer breezes through in Rome 08 May 07 | Tennis Murray loses clay opener in Rome 07 May 07 | Tennis Henman suffers early exit in Rome 07 May 07 | Tennis Nadal crushes Federer in Monaco 22 Apr 07 | Tennis Nadal wins 'clay-grass' thriller 02 May 07 | Tennis Federer falls to Canas in Miami 28 Mar 07 | Tennis Canas ends Federer winning streak 12 Mar 07 | Tennis Latest tennis talk on 606 Tennis on the BBC The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites BBC PRODUCTS AND SERVICES Daily and weekly e-mails Back to top ^^ Privacy & Cookies Policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/sport1/hi/motorsport/formula_one/6646055.stm	BBC SPORT | Motorsport | Formula One | Alonso bounces back to set pace Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation F1 on Five Live>> Friday, 11 May 2007, 13:42 GMT 14:42 UK E-mail this to a friend Alonso bounces back to set pace Alonso is determined to win his home Grand Prix Fernando Alonso underlined how much he wants to win his home Spanish Grand Prix with the fastest time in practice. The world champion bounced back after being beaten by team-mate Lewis Hamilton in Friday's first session to dominate practice in the afternoon. Alonso set a best lap of one minute 21.397 seconds to beat Hamilton, who was fifth, by 0.791secs. The Renaults of Giancarlo Fisichella and Heikki Kovalainen were second and third, ahead of Ferrari's Felipe Massa. Hamilton improved by only 0.1secs over his morning time, while Alonso found nearly 0.9secs. Your views on the Spanish Grand Prix In the morning session, Alonso, who was outpaced by his rookie team-mate at the last race in Bahrain, set the early pace in 1:22.449, with Hamilton just behind. Both drivers improved their times on their second series of laps, but this time Hamilton was just over 0.1secs faster than the world champion. The 22-year-old improved his time again, by nearly 0.3secs on his third run, whereas Alonso did not go any faster, but the Spaniard was still clear of the Ferraris. Schumacher is attending his first GP since his retirement By the end of the afternoon Hamilton was sandwiched between the two Ferraris, with Kimi Raikkonen in sixth place, suggesting another close battle between F1's two dominant teams. The pace of the Renaults appears not to be indicative of a major step forward after their disappointing start to the season, according to Fisichella. "My feeling is that we are possibly a little bit closer to the cars in front of us," the Italian said, "even if we are clearly not fast enough to be second in the times on speed alone." Kovalainen added: "The target has to be to qualify in the top 10 but, just like at the last three races, it is going to be tough." Jenson Button continued to struggle in the Honda, managing only the 13th fastest time in the afternoon, just ahead of team-mate Rubens Barrichello. Button was 10th fastest in the morning, when he was nearly half a second down on Anthony Davidson's Super Aguri, which is effectively Honda's 2006 car. Button said: "We have made some small steps with the stability of the car since the last race but the outright pace has not yet improved a lot." Davidson dropped to 20th in the second session. Times from first practice at the Spanish Grand Prix: 1. Lewis Hamilton (GB) McLaren-Mercedes one minute 21.880 seconds 2. Fernando Alonso (Spa) McLaren-Mercedes 1:22.268 3. Kimi Raikkonen (Fin) Ferrari 1:22.291 4. Robert Kubica (Pol) BMW Sauber 1:22.446 5. Felipe Massa (Brz) Ferrari 1:22.565 6. Anthony Davidson (GB) Super Aguri-Honda 1:22.665 7. Jarno Trulli (Ita) Toyota 1:22.740 8. Ralf Schumacher (Ger) Toyota 1:22.843 9. Nico Rosberg (Ger) Williams-Toyota 1:23.048 10. Jenson Button (GB) Honda 1:23.114 11. Alexander Wurz (Aut) Williams-Toyota 1:23.131 12. Nick Heidfeld (Ger) BMW Sauber 1:23.170 13. Takuma Sato (Jpn) Super Aguri-Honda 1:23.316 14. Heikki Kovalainen (Fin) Renault 1:23.322 15. Giancarlo Fisichella (Ita) Renault 1:23.397 16. David Coulthard (GB) Red Bull-Renault 1:23.428 17. Mark Webber (Aus) Red Bull-Renault 1:23.444 18. Rubens Barrichello (Brz) Honda 1:23.479 19. Adrian Sutil (Ger) Spyker-Ferrari 1:23.954 20. Vitantonio Liuzzi (Ita) Toro Rosso-Ferrari 1:24.104 21. Scott Speed (USA) Toro Rosso-Ferrari 1:24.179 22. Christijan Albers (Ned) Spyker-Ferrari 1:24.396 Times from the second practice session: 18. Jarno Trulli, Italy, Toyota, 1:23.307 Follow live coverage of the Spainsh Grand Prix on BBC Five Live and this website. Qualifying starts at 1300 BST on Saturday, with the race at the same time on Sunday. Schumi hails precocious Hamilton 11 May 07 | Formula One Singapore to stage F1 night race 11 May 07 | Formula One Renault expect tough Spanish test 08 May 07 | Formula One Schumacher to attend Spanish GP 09 May 07 | Formula One Valencia streets to host F1 GP 10 May 07 | Formula One Ralf expects F1 drive next season 11 May 07 | Formula One Your say on Formula One - 606 Five Live Formula One The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites BBC PRODUCTS AND SERVICES Daily and weekly e-mails Back to top ^^ Privacy & Cookies Policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/uk/6647865.stm	BBC NEWS | UK | Iraq leader says troops must stay Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 18:09 GMT 19:09 UK E-mail this to a friend Iraq leader says troops must stay Jalal Talabani (right) also met Tony Blair at Downing Street US and British troops will need to stay another one or two years in Iraq, Iraqi President Jalal Talabani has said. Mr Talabani was addressing students during a visit to Cambridge University. Asked when the UK and US should leave, he said: "I think in one or two years we will be able to recruit our own army forces and say goodbye to our friends." He added that he considered Prime Minister Tony Blair to be a "hero" and said he hoped Gordon Brown would continue his work. In the latest violence in Iraq, twin suicide bombings in south-eastern Baghdad have killed 22 people and injured 60. The victims include police officers, Iraqi soldiers and civilians. The attacks happened on two bridges in the capital which form a key route out of the south of the city. After a meeting with Mr Blair at 10 Downing Street, Mr Talabani said Mr Blair was a "dear friend" and a "great leader". I think it was a very noble job that your army and your people did in Iraq The Iraqi president expressed his sympathy towards the families of British forces killed in his country, who he said had died for a just cause. He said: "I am very, very sorry for the lives lost in Iraq." "I think it was a very noble job that your army and your people did in Iraq." Mr Talabani urged US politicians to reconsider plans to begin withdrawing their forces from his country. On Thursday, the US House of Representatives passed a draft bill that would provide funding for troops in Iraq only until July. Mr Talabani told reporters: "We are concerned. We hope that Congress will review this decision and help the American army to stay until the Iraqi army will be able to replace them and to protect the security of Iraq." E-mail this to a friend THE STRUGGLE FOR IRAQ US House passes Iraq funding bill Cheney addresses troops in Iraq US Marine 'shot unarmed Iraqis' Bush 'would veto new Iraq bill' Car bomb explodes in Iraqi city The Iraq summit was a limited success for US contacts with Iran and Syria Despair as Baghdad plan falters Massacre fuels northern tensions Baghdad: Mapping the violence Iraq violence in figures Baker's sweet smell of success Your views: Iraq four years on TV reports on Iraq Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Madeleine parents 'won't give up' 11 Menezes police face no action MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/world/south_asia/6647005.stm	BBC NEWS | World | South Asia | US admits Afghan civilians killed Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 16:44 GMT 17:44 UK E-mail this to a friend US admits Afghan civilians killed US forces said they called in air support US-led forces have admitted civilians were killed in fighting with Taleban insurgents this week in the southern Afghan province of Helmand. Local officials say at least 21 people died when US-led forces called in air strikes against militants near Sangin. In turn, a local elder ordered the killing of a Taleban commander for ambushing the US-led ground forces and triggering the air strikes. The fighting, near the town of Sangin, has been continuing. One child, who was evacuated to a Coalition medical treatment facility nearby, later died of wounds "There are confirmed reports of civilian casualties; however, it is unknown... how many," a statement from US-led coalition troops said. It said up to 20 wounded villagers had been treated by coalition forces. It is the third time in recent months that US special forces, who operate outside Nato remit, have been accused of causing significant civilian casualties. Public discontent in Afghanistan is growing over the rising number of civilian casualties and the government's failure to improve the lives of most Afghans. The US military say they called in air strikes on Tuesday night after US special forces and Afghan troops came under mortar, rocket and small arms fire while on patrol 25km (15 miles) north of Sangin. Senate urges Taleban talks Civilian deaths 'shame' US The aircraft destroyed "three enemy command and control compounds", spokesmen said on Wednesday. They said troops had killed a "significant" number of militants. Locals said villages had been hit, and children and women were among the dead. One villager quoted by Reuters news agency denied Taleban fighters had used them as "human shields". However, in the aftermath of the battle, a Taleban commander, Haji Wali Mohammad, was killed at the orders of a local elder who criticised his men for using local people's homes to fight from. The elder said that by ambushing the Americans, the Taleban had brought the bombs to the villages. The elder was then killed in retaliation by other Taleban fighters, according to reports from local people. There are more than 11,000 US troops in Afghanistan outside of the Nato mandate who are involved in counter terrorism and training the Afghan security forces. The US-led coalition statement on Friday said a joint inquiry into the incident was being conducted with the Afghan army. It said a wounded child had died after being evacuated by the coalition for treatment. Foreign forces and Afghan troops are trying to drive militants from the lawless, opium-producing region of Sangin. The rising number of civilian casualties there and elsewhere in the country is putting President Hamid Karzai under increasing pressure. On Tuesday, the Afghan Senate urged him to open direct talks with local Taleban militants, and for attacks on them to stop. Earlier that day, the US military had said it was "deeply ashamed" over the killings of 19 Afghan civilians by US Marines in early March. Correspondents say that casualties in remote battle sites in Afghanistan are almost impossible to verify. Taleban fighters are often accused of seeking shelter in peoples' homes, leading to civilian casualties, and it is often difficult to determine if people killed in such air strikes were militants or civilians. E-mail this to a friend President Karzai's Afghanistan still faces daunting challenges, writes Lyse Doucet. Herat: A city reborn In pictures: Ordinary lives Pain of suicide women In graphics: Harsh realities Who are the militants? Travelling with the Taleban Views on foreign troops Should Nato boost presence? One Day in Afghanistan The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites TOP SOUTH ASIA STORIES Uttar Pradesh low caste landslide US admits Afghan civilians killed Karachi braced for judge protests MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/uk_politics/6645465.stm	BBC NEWS | Politics | Last goodbye for Blair and Chirac Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 19:32 GMT 20:32 UK E-mail this to a friend Last goodbye for Blair and Chirac Mr Blair met Jacques Chirac and his successor Nicolas Sarkozy Outgoing British Prime Minister Tony Blair has visited Paris to say farewell to outgoing French president and political adversary, Jacques Chirac. Mr Blair and Mr Chirac have disagreed regularly on EU matters over the years but greeted each other warmly on the Elysee Palace steps. Their biggest falling out came when Mr Blair allied with Washington over Iraq. Mr Blair also held talks with French President-elect Nicolas Sarkozy, who takes power on 16 May. The meeting was Mr Sarkozy's first with a foreign leader and was followed by a private dinner. During the talks they were joined by Francois Fillon, expected to be named next week as Mr Sarkozy's prime minister, and British ambassador to France, Peter Westmacott. Speaking after the meeting Mr Sarkozy said he had been "very impressed" by Mr Blair's decade in office. He said it was not the length of his time in office which was impressive but what he had achieved. On one of his last visits to Britain, Mr Sarkozy visited a job centre to see how the UK dealt with unemployment. I am tempted to say that Sarkozy is currently the most successful Blairite around BBC Europe editor Mark Mardell Europe diary: Blair's friends He has made the fight against joblessness his top priority for France. The main subject of Mr Blair and Mr Sarkozy's talks was Europe and the future of the EU Constitutional Treaty - which France scuppered by voting against, in its referendum two years ago. Mr Sarkozy wants, instead, a pragmatic form of mini-treaty, pared down to its bare essentials, to be voted through national parliaments rather than risk another referendum. However, Britain and France still disagree on some areas, not least over Turkish membership of the EU, which Britain favours and Mr Sarkozy remains firmly against. A government official said there had been "common ground" between the two men during the talks. The German Chancellor, Angela Merkel, is working on a roadmap towards a new treaty to be discussed at the European Council meeting in late June. She is not expected to meet the new French president for talks until after 16 May. E-mail this to a friend Nick Assinder on what Gordon Brown might do in the top job Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Deputy contenders woo MPs Brown rivals delay bid decision Blair will stand down on 27 June Prescott quits as deputy leader Q&A: What happens now? In depth: Blair's legacy From rebellious schoolboy to global statesman. Would Brown be right for PM? Who would make the best leader of the Labour Party? None of the above Results are indicative and may not reflect public opinion Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Labour deputy hopefuls woo MPs SNP and Greens sign working deal MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/programmes/from_our_own_correspondent/6639233.stm	BBC NEWS | Programmes | From Our Own Correspondent | Blair passes on his African vision Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Thursday, 10 May 2007, 11:07 GMT 12:07 UK E-mail this to a friend Blair passes on his African vision One of Tony Blair's biggest concerns has been the plight of Africa which he once famously described as a scar on the conscience of the world. The Africa Commission Report set out ideas for combating poverty There is a large yellow book on the top shelf of my bookcase. It is more than 450 pages in length, and I dip into it from time to time, whenever I need facts and information about Africa. It is the report that was drawn up by Tony Blair's Commission for Africa, two years ago. On the back cover, there is a photograph of the 17 commissioners - Tony Blair is in the middle of the front row. On his right-hand side, he is flanked by Gordon Brown and Bob Geldof. The Africa Commission was full of promise. The report starts with these words: "African poverty and stagnation is the greatest tragedy of our time. Poverty on such a scale demands a forceful response." Mr Blair, and those appointed to help him, wanted new ideas and action for a strong and prosperous Africa. And so, during the course of 2004 and 2005, the prime minister set about the task of trying to galvanise the rest of the world. Appropriately, the process began in Addis Ababa - the continent's diplomatic capital - where Emperor Haile Selassie and some of Africa's founding fathers created the Organisation of African Unity, back in 1963. Mr Blair spent time with villagers in Debre Zeit near Addis Ababa Mr Blair arrived there on a soaking wet October day, two and a half years ago, and was immediately taken by road to see a small project supporting orphaned children at Debre Zeit - an hour's drive from Addis. He was invited to sit on the grass in a field, encircled by the children who had come to entertain him with a traditional Ethiopian song. This was the prime minister rolling up his sleeves and getting a rare chance to find out what life is like in Africa's most deprived communities. He met an HIV-positive mother, who had been facing near-certain death. But the woman told Mr Blair how she had been given help, was now running a business and supporting her family. This, said Mr Blair, was what Africans needed - not just a hand-out of aid, but a helping hand to allow them to help themselves. The Blair visit to Ethiopia was all too brief. I wished he could have seen so much more - for this is a nation that epitomises so many of Africa's problems: extreme poverty, rapid population growth, abuses of human rights... And of course, Ethiopia - with its dramatic landscape - is a country that lies in a rough neighbourhood - the conflict-prone Horn of Africa. It was Bob Geldof who helped to put Ethiopia on the map two decades ago. In some Ethiopian villages time appears to have stood still So much has changed since the war-driven famine of 1984, but some things remain the same. And so, if he had stayed longer, I would have wanted Tony Blair to have taken the road that leads up the slopes of Entoto Mountain on the northern side of Addis Ababa. Here, the 4x4s and the battered old Addis taxis jostle for space with herds of goats and donkeys. But what you also see are women and young girls hunched over as they carry back-breaking loads of firewood from the eucalyptus trees on the mountainside. On foot, it is a long and arduous trek down into the city. And it is a medieval image - completely at odds with Tony Blair's vision of a modern, reformed Africa. It always serves as a reminder to me that it is going to take more than a few promises from the leaders of the Group of Eight industrialised nations to change the way of life here. I have never doubted Tony Blair's sincerity and commitment to Africa, but there is no question that he took on a gargantuan task when he sought to forge a new partnership between Africa and the developed world. Africa is full of surprises that can always throw a spanner or two in the works. The gap between Blair and Meles indicated a strained relationship The last time I saw the prime minister in this part of the world was at what was described as "a progressive governance summit", a small meeting of like-minded centre-left leaders who had gathered at an incongruous location - a small South African game park, north of Pretoria. At the news conference afterwards, Tony Blair was joined by - among others - the presidents of South Africa and Brazil. But Mr Blair had the misfortune - at the time - to find himself sitting next to Ethiopian Prime Minister Meles Zenawi, his erstwhile friend and member of the Commission for Africa. Only, Prime Minister Meles had - during 2005 - locked up members of the Ethiopian opposition after unrest following disputed elections. Another blow perhaps, to the "African Renaissance"? The body language between Blair and Meles, and the rather noticeable gap between their chairs at the news conference seemed to reveal a strained relationship. So now - in all likelihood - it is Gordon Brown who will take on some of the responsibility of keeping Africa on the world agenda. He has already done his fair share of cajoling at international finance ministers' meetings. And he has had some hands-on experience of the challenges in Kenya, Tanzania and Mozambique. But he may want to consider the words of one activist I spoke to this week, who said: "The battle against poverty is a marathon, not a sprint." From Our Own Correspondent was broadcast on Thursday, 9 May, 2007 at 1100 GMT on BBC Radio 4. Please check the for World Service transmission times. E-mail this to a friend THE BLAIR YEARS 1997-2007 From rebellious schoolboy to global statesman Blair will stand down on 27 June Key quotes from the Blair speech In quotes: Global reaction Prescott quits as deputy leader Deputy contenders claim support Q&A: Blair's exit plans How will history judge Blair? Three expert views on the PM's legacy The message in Blair's speech Being the prime minister's wife Blair years in statistics Robinson's verdict on Blair Highs and lows of the Blair era Blair's Cabinet of '97 Timeline: The Blair Years Blair: In his own words How others portrayed Blair How will he be remembered? The day I met Tony Blair England reacts to PM's departure What next for Blair? In his own words Decade at the top MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/world/asia-pacific/6646297.stm	BBC NEWS | World | Asia-Pacific | 'New proof' of Japan sex slaves Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 13:00 GMT 14:00 UK E-mail this to a friend 'New proof' of Japan sex slaves About 200,000 women worked as Japanese sex slaves in WWII Reports from Japan say documents have been found that suggest the Japanese forced women to work as sex slaves during World War II. They come from the Dutch government archives and include the testimony of a 27-year-old Dutch woman from May 1946. The Kyodo news agency says the documents show women were coerced into prostitution in occupied Indonesia. Japan's PM Shinzo Abe had claimed no evidence existed to prove that women had been forced to work as sex slaves. The documents are reported to have been found by a Japanese journalist investigating Japan's wartime crimes in Asia. The Dutch woman's testimony says she had her clothes ripped off her by Japanese military police. She says she was taken to a brothel and forced to work as a prostitute, despite her efforts to resist. That testimony, it is claimed, was submitted to the Tokyo War Crimes Tribunal as evidence of forced mass prostitution in Magelang, in what is now Central Java, in 1944. Other documents are said to include further allegations that the Japanese forced women into prostitution. Earlier this year Prime Minister Abe said that investigations had failed to find any documentary evidence that the Japanese authorities in wartime had issued orders to soldiers to coerce women into sex slavery. He said though that he stood by a Japanese government apology to the women, known in Japan as "comfort women". The journalist who found these documents says they contradict the prime minister's denial that the authorities were directly involved in coercion. The Japanese Foreign Ministry says it is aware of his claims but has not seen the documents so cannot comment on what they might contain. It says the Japanese government has investigated its wartime activities in Indonesia thoroughly and acknowledges and apologises for the country's wartime use of sex slaves. E-mail this to a friend Abe explains sex slave comments 27 Apr 07 | Asia-Pacific Japan's Abe heads to Washington 26 Apr 07 | Asia-Pacific Japan PM apology on sex slaves 26 Mar 07 | Asia-Pacific Viewpoints: Abe sex slave row 21 Mar 07 | Asia-Pacific Japan anger at US sex slave bill 19 Feb 07 | Asia-Pacific 26 Sep 06 | Asia-Pacific The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Koreas agree cross-border train 'New proof' of Japan sex slaves Ramos-Horta 'wins E Timor poll' MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/sci/tech/6644697.stm	BBC NEWS | Science/Nature | Galileo firms miss key deadline Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Thursday, 10 May 2007, 22:25 GMT 23:25 UK E-mail this to a friend Galileo firms miss key deadline The Galileo spacecraft would be launched in batches The private consortium asked to run Europe's satellite navigation system, Galileo, has missed a key EU deadline for moving the project forward. The European Commission (EC) said the companies had made "insufficient progress", resulting in unacceptable delays and risks for public finances. This is likely to mean European taxpayers stepping in to cover an advance payment for construction costs. The EC is expected to present new plans to overhaul the project on 16 May. These will be sent for approval by the EU's transport ministers in June. The consortium comprises leading aerospace and telecom concerns: EADS, Thales, Inmarsat, Alcatel-Lucent, Finmeccanica, AENA, Hispasat, and TeleOp. The Commission set a 10 May deadline for them to come forward with a single company structure to run Galileo, a chief executive and common position from which to negotiate with EU representatives over the future of the project. On Thursday, the Commission announced that the target had not been met to its satisfaction. Michele Cercone, spokesman for the EC's directorate general for transport, said the Commission now intended to propose "different scenarios to put Galileo on the right track again". Galileo's planned network of 30 satellites will beam radio signals to receiving devices on the ground, helping users pinpoint their locations. The system's technologies are designed to bring greater accuracy and reliability to navigation and timing signals delivered from space. A European Commission and European Space Agency project 30 satellites to be launched in batches by end of 2011-12 Will work alongside US GPS and Russian Glonass systems Promises real-time positioning down to less than a metre Guaranteed under all but most extreme circumstances Suitable for safety-critical roles where lives depend on service Europe lofts Galileo satellite Q&A: Europe's Galileo project Galileo puts UK on map The original intention behind Galileo was that taxpayers in the EU would inject more than one billion euros (£0.7bn) into the early development of the project. The deployment phase - the launch of the satellites and the construction of ground stations - was expected to cost at least two billion more, with two-thirds of the investment being borne by the private sector. The latter was also expected to pick up all the running costs in the long term. The first demonstrator spacecraft, Giove-A, is already in orbit. A second, Giove-B, which has had some technical problems, should be in orbit by the year's end. The contract for the first four satellites proper in the final constellation was awarded at the end of 2004, but the time has now come to order the remaining 26. It should be the private concession making this spacecraft order - but with no progress on its formal establishment, it seems certain that European taxpayers will now have to shoulder a greater burden of the construction costs if Galileo is to stay on track. Mr Cercone said this option would be better for Europe's taxpayers in the long run. He likened the alternative options to the difference between leasing a car and buying one. "When you lease a car you pay less at the start, but it turns out more expensive in the end. When you buy a car for cash, you have to come up with the money sooner, but overall the car will cost less," he told a press briefing in Brussels. "If you apply this example to Galileo, it is less expensive to take on the entire construction of the infrastructure than it would be to guarantee for 100% a private loan at market value, as is the plan of the consortium." Under consortium proposals, public money would be used to guarantee the risks and debts of the project. But Mr Cercone said using public money to cover construction costs offered the best value for money and would protect taxpayers. Galileo was supposed to have started launching its 30 satellites by 2008. However, that date was postponed to 2011/12 due to previous disagreements between EU governments on how to pay for the system. E-mail this to a friend VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS Galileo versus US satellite navigation system Galileo system 'in a deep crisis' 08 May 07 | Science/Nature Galileo companies given deadline 22 Mar 07 | Science/Nature Galileo sat-nav in decisive phase 14 Mar 07 | Science/Nature Europe secures extra Galileo cash 31 Aug 06 | Science/Nature Boost to Galileo sat-nav system 25 Aug 06 | Science/Nature Europe launches Galileo satellite 28 Dec 05 | Science/Nature Navigating future for road charges 29 Dec 05 | Science/Nature European Satellite Navigation Industries Galileo Masters (UK Pages) The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Bandwidth leap for British forces Asian markets push illegal ivory Aboriginal remains fight resolved MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/middle_east/6645929.stm	BBC NEWS | World | Middle East | Clashes follow new Gaza operation Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 10:25 GMT 11:25 UK E-mail this to a friend Clashes follow new Gaza operation Soldiers from both main rival factions have deployed in Gaza Clashes in the Gaza Strip have left six Palestinians wounded, a day after a major security operation began aimed at try to curb violence and lawlessness. Hundreds of troops, some loyal to rival factions Hamas and Fatah, fanned out on the streets of Gaza on Thursday. Up to 400 people have died in clashes between Palestinian factions since the Islamist Hamas won last year's parliamentary elections. But the rival parties agreed to form a coalition government earlier this year. On Friday, a number of Palestinians, including civilians and security officers from forces controlled by Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas, were wounded in shootouts in Gaza City. A further two civilians were hurt when militants from the armed wing of Hamas opened fire in the Jabaliya refugee camp north of Gaza City, the AFP news agency reported. The circumstances surrounding this incident are not clear. Since the Israeli withdrawal from Gaza in 2005, the strip has seen a wave of infighting, armed robberies, deadly family feuds and kidnappings. Several attempts to halt the violence have failed, and the interior minister in the new Palestinian coalition government, Hani Qawasmi, has threatened to resign because he says his plan for restoring security has not been carried out. As many as 3,000 police were reported to have taken part in the initial operations launched on Thursday, the Associated Press reported. One official told the AFP news agency that troops took up positions in the north of Gaza at entrances to towns and at major road junctions. Witnesses said that security personnel were inspecting vehicles on the approach to Gaza City and asking passengers to show their identity cards. Officials said that forces loyal to Fatah and Hamas would now wear the same police uniform and answer to the interior ministry, which has been placed under the control of Mr Qawasmi, a political independent in the coalition government. The full details of the security plan are not known. The first phase was set to last 100 days and to cover traffic and crime fighting, the Associated Press said. E-mail this to a friend Rival groups join forces in Gaza BBC's Johnston wins press award Hamas told to axe children's show MPs back beleaguered Israeli PM Israelis across the political spectrum unite at an anti-Olmert rally in Tel Aviv Wave of discontent in Israel Gulf in Mid-East narratives Timeline: Alan Johnston missing Israeli views on Halutz TOP MIDDLE EAST STORIES Clashes follow new Gaza operation Iraq leader says troops must stay New Jerusalem settlement planned MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/world/europe/6648299.stm	BBC NEWS | World | Europe | Scholar defends Pope Pius' record Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 19:10 GMT 20:10 UK E-mail this to a friend Scholar defends Pope Pius' record Pius XII was Pope for 19 years A senior Catholic scholar has defended the Vatican's decision to put Pope Pius XII, who led the Catholic Church from 1939 to 1958, on the road to sainthood. Pope Pius has long been accused by Jewish groups and scholars of turning a blind eye to the fate of the Jews. A Vatican commission of cardinals and bishops unanimously voted this week for him to be considered for beatification. Professor Peter Gumpel said there was no truth in any of the allegations raised about the late Pope. He said that, as far as he was concerned, the objections that had been raised over the years had now been researched and discounted. "The case against Pius has been studied at length and in detail by many serious and independent scholars," said Professor Gumpel, a German Jesuit who contributed to the commission's work. "I would not have signed the research papers that we put forward to the commission if I believed there was any truth behind the objections or allegations that were raised." The commission, called the Congregation for the Causes of Saints, has considered the case of Pope Pius for more than three months. The cardinals and bishops - from Italy, Spain, Portugal, Mexico, Japan and the US - poured over six volumes of work comprising more than 3,000 pages and hundreds of documents. The file was compiled by a number of scholars and historians, of all nationalities, who have investigated many of the criticisms that have been levelled against the wartime Pope. Pope Pius abstained from signing the Allied Declaration condemning the extermination of the Jews. There have also been many objections to his case for beatification, fuelled over the years by the publication of several books that claimed the Pope cared more about securing a concordat with Nazi Germany than he did about saving Jewish lives. Critics have included John Cornwell, author of Hitler's Pope, and Daniel Goldhagen, who wrote A Moral Reckoning. The Vatican has always contended that the wartime Pope led quiet diplomacy that saved the lives of thousands of Jews. With the opening of the Vatican's pre-war archives to scholars in February, Professor Gumpel says researchers will soon have access to new evidence that proves Pius actually helped the Jews. With the investigation now complete, Pope Pius XII has overcome one of the biggest hurdles on the path to sainthood. Pope Benedict must still sign the decree and Pope Pius XII must still be credited with one miracle before he can be beatified - and another before he will become a saint. E-mail this to a friend The Pope's Turkey visit produces some of his defining moments, writes David Willey Europe diary: Turkish tensions Preaching to the unconverted Pope calls for religious exchange Trip covers sensitive ground Pope's visit: Head to head Benedict the unlikely pin-up pope Sympathetic ear for Pope Pope stresses respect for Muslims Key excerpts: Bavaria speech Pope Benedict XVI and Islam Profile: Pope Benedict XVI Election of Pope Benedict XVI BBC Religion and Ethics: Pope Benedict The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Polish court strikes down spy law Serbian parties in coalition deal Last goodbye for Blair and Chirac MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/world/africa/6645715.stm	BBC NEWS | World | Africa | UN to decide on Zimbabwe key role Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 22:44 GMT 23:44 UK E-mail this to a friend UN to decide on Zimbabwe key role Mr Chidyausiku says the row is a storm in a teacup The United Nations is due to decide whether Zimbabwe should lead one of its key bodies, despite objections from Western countries. African nations have nominated Zimbabwe to head the Commission on Sustainable Development (CSD), a move which has met with widespread disapproval. Some countries say Zimbabwe's high inflation, unemployment and rights record make it an unsuitable candidate. But Zimbabwe has dismissed such criticism, calling it an insult. "What has sustainable development to do with human rights?" Zimbabwe's ambassador to the UN told the BBC. The position traditionally rotates through the regions of the world, with Africa next in line. European countries in particular are calling on African nations to put forward another candidate. Zimbabwe's ambassador to the UN, Boniface Chidyausiku, said his country was entitled to hold the chairmanship. When they tell the African group to change, it's an insult to our intelligence "It's our right. We're members of the United Nations and we're members of CSD, and the Africa group did make a decision and endorsed Zimbabwe," he told the BBC's Network Africa programme. "They're making a storm out of a teacup." He said the real objection came down to Britain's criticism of Zimbabwe's controversial land reform programme. Zimbabwe's food production has plummeted since land reforms in 2000 that saw thousands of white-owned farms seized. "We see it as a translation of a bilateral quarrel between London and Harare on the land reform programme," Mr Chidyausiku said. He said the European countries should respect the decision of the African block. "When they tell the African group to change, it's an insult to our intelligence - that we Africans can't think," he said. Meanwhile, Mozambique has threatened to cut electricity to its neighbour for failing to pay its debts. Mozambique's Cahora Bassa dam supplies Zimbabwe with 500 megawatts of power. The BBC's Jose Tembe in Maputo says Zimbabwe has accumulated debt to the tune of $9m. A spokesman for Mozambique's electricity firm EDM said the government acknowledged Zimbabwe's current economic crisis but said that debt is debt and must be paid. On Wednesday, it was announced that households in Zimbabwe were to be limited to four hours' electricity a day, between 1700 and 2100 local time. E-mail this to a friend VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS Zimbabwe's UN ambassador speaks out about the row ZIMBABWE: A NATION IN CRISIS Born free: Life under Mugabe Forty years of schooling Mugabe's hold over Africa Bloggers turn up heat 'Zimbabwe is still working' How far would you go to put food on the table? Where are Zimbabweans going? What next for Zimbabwe? United Nations Division for Sustainable Development The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites UN to decide on Zimbabwe key role Guinea soldiers suspend protest Africa air staff 'being poached' MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/africa/6645715.stm	BBC NEWS | World | Africa | UN to decide on Zimbabwe key role Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 22:44 GMT 23:44 UK E-mail this to a friend UN to decide on Zimbabwe key role Mr Chidyausiku says the row is a storm in a teacup The United Nations is due to decide whether Zimbabwe should lead one of its key bodies, despite objections from Western countries. African nations have nominated Zimbabwe to head the Commission on Sustainable Development (CSD), a move which has met with widespread disapproval. Some countries say Zimbabwe's high inflation, unemployment and rights record make it an unsuitable candidate. But Zimbabwe has dismissed such criticism, calling it an insult. "What has sustainable development to do with human rights?" Zimbabwe's ambassador to the UN told the BBC. The position traditionally rotates through the regions of the world, with Africa next in line. European countries in particular are calling on African nations to put forward another candidate. Zimbabwe's ambassador to the UN, Boniface Chidyausiku, said his country was entitled to hold the chairmanship. When they tell the African group to change, it's an insult to our intelligence "It's our right. We're members of the United Nations and we're members of CSD, and the Africa group did make a decision and endorsed Zimbabwe," he told the BBC's Network Africa programme. "They're making a storm out of a teacup." He said the real objection came down to Britain's criticism of Zimbabwe's controversial land reform programme. Zimbabwe's food production has plummeted since land reforms in 2000 that saw thousands of white-owned farms seized. "We see it as a translation of a bilateral quarrel between London and Harare on the land reform programme," Mr Chidyausiku said. He said the European countries should respect the decision of the African block. "When they tell the African group to change, it's an insult to our intelligence - that we Africans can't think," he said. Meanwhile, Mozambique has threatened to cut electricity to its neighbour for failing to pay its debts. Mozambique's Cahora Bassa dam supplies Zimbabwe with 500 megawatts of power. The BBC's Jose Tembe in Maputo says Zimbabwe has accumulated debt to the tune of $9m. A spokesman for Mozambique's electricity firm EDM said the government acknowledged Zimbabwe's current economic crisis but said that debt is debt and must be paid. On Wednesday, it was announced that households in Zimbabwe were to be limited to four hours' electricity a day, between 1700 and 2100 local time. E-mail this to a friend VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS Zimbabwe's UN ambassador speaks out about the row ZIMBABWE: A NATION IN CRISIS Born free: Life under Mugabe Forty years of schooling Mugabe's hold over Africa Bloggers turn up heat 'Zimbabwe is still working' How far would you go to put food on the table? Where are Zimbabweans going? What next for Zimbabwe? United Nations Division for Sustainable Development The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites UN to decide on Zimbabwe key role Guinea soldiers suspend protest Africa air staff 'being poached' MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/south_asia/6643953.stm	BBC NEWS | World | South Asia | Uttar Pradesh low caste landslide Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 17:13 GMT 18:13 UK E-mail this to a friend Uttar Pradesh low caste landslide BSP supporters see their party set for government India's low-caste Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) has swept to a historic victory in assembly elections in the key northern state of Uttar Pradesh. With all but a handful of results declared, the BSP had won 202 of the 403 seats to allow it to form its own government, Indian media reports said. It is the first time since 1991 that any party in the state has done so. Uttar Pradesh is India's most populous state and has long been its most politically influential. I thank people of all castes and communities who supported my party Blow to economic reform? The BBC's Sanjoy Majumder in Delhi says the result represents a major setback for India's mainstream political parties who faired poorly in polls which observers believe could help determine India's political future. He says many believe it is significant that BSP leader Ms Mayawati - a fiery politician from the poor, deprived Dalit (formerly untouchable) caste - has managed to spread her political appeal and that it may not be long before India votes in a lower caste prime minister. Jubilant, flag-waving BSP supporters gathered on Friday outside Ms Mayawati's residence in Lucknow, the capital of Uttar Pradesh. Mayawati is a Dalit, at the bottom of the caste system Dancing party supporters set off fire crackers and celebrated with sweets. Ms Mayawati now begins her fourth term in office, but hers will not this time be a coalition government. "I thank people of all castes and communities who supported my party to achieve this overwhelming victory," she told a news conference. Outgoing chief minister Mulayam Singh Yadav had earlier admitted defeat and resigned. His Samajwadi Party came a poor second, far behind the BSP. India's two main political parties - the governing Congress and the main opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) - also did very badly. Both have been on the decline in Uttar Pradesh in recent years. The poor Congress showing came despite a high-profile campaign by Rahul Gandhi - the fourth generation of the famous dynasty. Former Chief Minister Mulayam Singh Yadav has admitted defeat Ms Mayawati's support base is mostly with the lower caste and poor communities who form a significant percentage of the Uttar Pradesh electorate. The elections were held in seven phases over a month for logistical reasons. None of the phases had a turnout higher than 50%. The vote will also be remembered for having seen no significant violence, unlike in the past. Caste and religion have been dominant factors in politics over the past two decades in Uttar Pradesh, one of India's poorest states. Uttar Pradesh is also plagued by corruption, and lags behind other parts of India in areas like development and health. Because of its sheer size and numbers, Uttar Pradesh, commonly called UP, holds an important place in the Indian political system. More than 49 million people were eligible to vote at nearly 50,000 polling stations in Uttar Pradesh, watched over by thousands of police and paramilitary troops. The state has more than 175 million inhabitants. It sends 80 MPs - the highest number in India - to the federal parliament, more than any other state. It has produced most of India's prime ministers, including the Nehru-Gandhi dynasty. E-mail this to a friend 11 May 07 | South Asia India's reform programme suffers a blow 11 May 07 | South Asia Politics and the barrel of the gun 07 May 07 | South Asia Summer of discontent in Uttar Pradesh 17 Apr 07 | South Asia BJP protests in campaign CD row 09 Apr 07 | South Asia Muslim minority ruling suspended 06 Apr 07 | South Asia Hoping against hope in Uttar Pradesh 06 Apr 07 | South Asia India politician's wealth probed 01 Mar 07 | South Asia Election Commission of India The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites TOP SOUTH ASIA STORIES Uttar Pradesh low caste landslide US admits Afghan civilians killed Karachi braced for judge protests MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/world/asia-pacific/6644151.stm	BBC NEWS | World | Asia-Pacific | Koreas agree cross-border train Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 11:58 GMT 12:58 UK E-mail this to a friend Koreas agree cross-border train The South wants to secure future border crossings North and South Korea have ended four days of high-level military talks with agreement on cross-border train tests and the disputed western sea border. In a joint statement the two sides said they had agreed to provide security guarantees for a rail test-run across the border planned for next week. They also agreed to create a joint fishing zone in the West Sea, the scene of bloody naval clashes in the past. Analysts say the deal is a significant breakthrough for the two Koreas. South Korea has long sought security guarantees from the North for a train to cross the heavily fortified border. The test-run, scheduled for 17 May, will see the first such crossing since rail links between the two were severed during the 1950-53 Korean War. Tracks have been reconnected - alongside roads - as part of recent reconciliation projects. "The two sides have decided to discuss the issue of adopting a statement of agreement on military security for the operations of railways and roads," the joint statement said. If the test goes ahead, a train will cross from the North on the east coast and another will cross from the South on the west coast, officials said. They will travel about 25km (16 miles) and terminate their journeys a few kilometres inside the opposite territory. However, the north has resisted demands to allow further crossings after that. The talks by generals in the truce village of Panmunjom were extended into a fourth day so they could seek a resolution to the disputed maritime border, Yonhap news agency reported. Pyongyang does not recognise the border drawn by the United Nations at the end of the Korean War, which has resulted in naval clashes over the rich fishing grounds. Previous talks on cross-border trains have collapsed because of the North's insistence that the sea border issue be discussed. "The two sides have shared the view that preventing military conflict and creating a joint fishing zone in the West Sea is an issue to be urgently resolved in the course of easing military tension and establishing peace," Friday's joint statement read. This is the latest in a series of relationships that have slowly been re-established between the two sides in recent years, as the South has sought to engage with the secretive neighbour it is still technically at war with. A rail link would bring advantages to both sides. For South Korea, it would mean easily transporting goods produced using cheap North Korean labour. Seoul hopes one day to connect its rail network to the Trans-Siberian railway, which runs from China through to Europe. The line would boost tourism for the North by providing a link to a mountain resort on the east coast popular with South Koreans. E-mail this to a friend NORTH KOREA: SECRETIVE STATE US to give North Korea more time No outcry as deadline goes North Korea sacks prime minister Macau unblocks N Korean funds From atom to bomb What does it take to make a nuclear weapon? A Guide to North Korea Q&A: N Korea nuclear stand-off Images from inside secretive North Korea Diary of N Korea visit Holidays in North Korea History of the Korean War N Korea: Queries answered Nuclear deal: Readers' views North Korean news agency South Korean premier's office The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Koreas agree cross-border train 'New proof' of Japan sex slaves Ramos-Horta 'wins E Timor poll' MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/uk/6646537.stm	BBC NEWS | UK | 11 Menezes police face no action Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 13:57 GMT 14:57 UK E-mail this to a friend 11 Menezes police face no action Mr Menezes was mistaken for a suicide bomber Eleven officers involved in the shooting of Brazilian Jean Charles de Menezes will not face disciplinary action, the police watchdog has said. They were among 15 Metropolitan Police officers interviewed by the Independent Police Complaints Commission (IPCC). Decisions have not been made on the four most senior officers investigated. The family of Mr Menezes - shot eight times at Stockwell Tube station after being mistaken for a suicide bomber - said the decision was "disgraceful". The 27-year-old was killed on 22 July 2005, one day after the failed London bombings. The IPCC said a surveillance officer, one of the 11 not facing disciplinary action, would be given "management advice" in relation to action he took after the shooting. It is a travesty of justice and another slap in the face for our family Patricia da Silva Armani, Mr Menezes' cousin It said a decision on whether the four commanders and tactical advisers investigated should be disciplined would be made after the end of court proceedings. The Crown Prosecution Service previously found no evidence to warrant the prosecution of any individual over the shooting of Mr Menezes, an electrician. However, Scotland Yard is facing prosecution under health and safety laws over the incident. The trial is due to start in October. Patricia da Silva Armani, Mr Menezes' cousin, said: "It is a travesty of justice and another slap in the face for our family. "The police officers' lives go on as normal while we exist in turmoil, fighting to get the answers and justice we deserve." The Justice4Jean Campaign questioned the decision to clear the officers before the health and safety case is brought. "This is entirely premature and, worse still, may potentially prejudice any future criminal proceedings," a spokesman said. The grief and anger of his family is entirely understandable and - as I have been powerfully reminded - remains unassuaged IPCC chairman Nick Hardwick "This sends out the signal that no action against officers will ever be taken in this case, which is devastating for the family." The Menezes family said they believed there were grounds for gross negligence manslaughter criminal charges against the four senior officers. A spokeswoman, speaking on their behalf, said: "We hope ultimately that all the officers about whom evidence emerges of wrongdoing that led to this wrongful death are ultimately rendered fully accountable," the spokeswoman added. The IPCC's chairman, Nick Hardwick, said he understood the feelings of Mr Menezes' family. "The grief and anger of his family is entirely understandable and - as I have been powerfully reminded - remains unassuaged," he said. "I would not do anything lightly that adds to that grief or anger." But he said although Mr Menezes was "entirely innocent" there was "no realistic prospect" of disciplinary charges being upheld against the firearms or surveillance officers involved, including the two officers directly responsible for the fatal shooting . They were facing the "challenge" of the wake of the 7/7 London bombings, he added. The human rights group, Liberty, condemned the delay in deciding whether the more senior officers should be punished. The Metropolitan Police welcomed the IPCC recommendation but said the shooting of Mr Menezes was "a matter of very deep regret" to the service and said its thoughts were "with his family". A spokesman added: "There is no doubt that the events of July 2005 brought significant challenges to the Met and during this time many officers operated under difficult and dangerous conditions to protect London and Londoners." E-mail this to a friend VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS The Menezes' family solicitor on their "shock" Get the latest breaking news delivered to your desktop or mobile device Met not guilty plea over Menezes Menezes inquest will be delayed Police delay plea in Menezes case Vigil to mark anniversary No charges for Menezes officers Clickable guide to the shooting Mr Menezes' relatives protest at decision against charges Anger in Brazilian hometown Profile: Jean Charles de Menezes Young Brazilians fleeing poverty Profile: Sir Ian Blair Menezes decision: Your reaction Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Madeleine parents 'won't give up' 11 Menezes police face no action MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/world/europe/6648435.stm	BBC NEWS | World | Europe | Polish court strikes down spy law Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 21:54 GMT 22:54 UK E-mail this to a friend Polish court strikes down spy law Many Poles approved of the vetting proposals Poland's constitutional court has struck down sections of a controversial law aimed at uncovering collaboration with the communist-era secret police. The law, which came into force in March, required up to 700,000 people to confess if they were informants. But the country's highest court has decided that sections of the law violate Poland's constitution. The law broadened existing rules on disclosing collaboration to "people filling a public function". Previously, only senior public servants were required to reveal involvement with the secret police. The new law would have also covered teachers, academics and journalists, who would have been barred from working for a public company for a decade if they refused to co-operate or lied. The state must respect human rights and not have recourse to vengeance The BBC's Adam Easton in Warsaw says the court's decision will be seen as damaging to Prime Minister Jaroslaw Kaczynski, whose party had introduced the legislation. The conservative government has made it a priority to purge ex-communists and their collaborators from public life. Reacting to the ruling, his twin brother, President Lech Kaczynski, a staunch anti-communist, said the matter was not yet closed. It is not clear if the government will carry out its earlier threat to open up all the secret police files to the public if the court ruled against the law. The ruling has seriously reduced the number of people who can now legally be screened. Delivering their ruling, the judges chastised the government saying it should not seek vengeance in dealing with the country's communist past. "The vetting law can only be applied to individuals, not collectively," said presiding judge, Justice Jerzy Stepien. The opposition Democratic Left Alliance, mainly made up of former communists, had argued that the law violated the right to free speech. Journalists and academics were also critical of the legislation, saying the law was itself reminiscent of communist times, when people were forced to sign loyalty pledges. E-mail this to a friend Poland widens hunt for ex-spies 15 Mar 07 | Europe New Warsaw archbishop appointed 03 Mar 07 | Europe Legacy of communist-era collaboration 09 Jan 07 | Europe 09 Jan 07 | Country profiles Albanian MPs want ex-spies named 31 Oct 06 | Europe Secret files haunt Eastern Europe 21 Aug 06 | Europe Poland moves against former spies 21 Jul 06 | Europe The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Polish court strikes down spy law Serbian parties in coalition deal Last goodbye for Blair and Chirac MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/uk_politics/6645465.stm	BBC NEWS | Politics | Last goodbye for Blair and Chirac Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 19:32 GMT 20:32 UK E-mail this to a friend Last goodbye for Blair and Chirac Mr Blair met Jacques Chirac and his successor Nicolas Sarkozy Outgoing British Prime Minister Tony Blair has visited Paris to say farewell to outgoing French president and political adversary, Jacques Chirac. Mr Blair and Mr Chirac have disagreed regularly on EU matters over the years but greeted each other warmly on the Elysee Palace steps. Their biggest falling out came when Mr Blair allied with Washington over Iraq. Mr Blair also held talks with French President-elect Nicolas Sarkozy, who takes power on 16 May. The meeting was Mr Sarkozy's first with a foreign leader and was followed by a private dinner. During the talks they were joined by Francois Fillon, expected to be named next week as Mr Sarkozy's prime minister, and British ambassador to France, Peter Westmacott. Speaking after the meeting Mr Sarkozy said he had been "very impressed" by Mr Blair's decade in office. He said it was not the length of his time in office which was impressive but what he had achieved. On one of his last visits to Britain, Mr Sarkozy visited a job centre to see how the UK dealt with unemployment. I am tempted to say that Sarkozy is currently the most successful Blairite around BBC Europe editor Mark Mardell Europe diary: Blair's friends He has made the fight against joblessness his top priority for France. The main subject of Mr Blair and Mr Sarkozy's talks was Europe and the future of the EU Constitutional Treaty - which France scuppered by voting against, in its referendum two years ago. Mr Sarkozy wants, instead, a pragmatic form of mini-treaty, pared down to its bare essentials, to be voted through national parliaments rather than risk another referendum. However, Britain and France still disagree on some areas, not least over Turkish membership of the EU, which Britain favours and Mr Sarkozy remains firmly against. A government official said there had been "common ground" between the two men during the talks. The German Chancellor, Angela Merkel, is working on a roadmap towards a new treaty to be discussed at the European Council meeting in late June. She is not expected to meet the new French president for talks until after 16 May. E-mail this to a friend Nick Assinder on what Gordon Brown might do in the top job Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Deputy contenders woo MPs Brown rivals delay bid decision Blair will stand down on 27 June Prescott quits as deputy leader Q&A: What happens now? In depth: Blair's legacy From rebellious schoolboy to global statesman. Would Brown be right for PM? Who would make the best leader of the Labour Party? None of the above Results are indicative and may not reflect public opinion Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Labour deputy hopefuls woo MPs SNP and Greens sign working deal MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Google searches web's dark side Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Gang members get life for murder Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/africa/6647195.stm	BBC NEWS | World | Africa | Guinea soldiers suspend protest Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 16:19 GMT 17:19 UK E-mail this to a friend Guinea soldiers suspend protest Soldiers say they were promised a pay rise after a 1996 army mutiny Soldiers in Guinea who marched on the capital have agreed to return to barracks after the president promised to meet them about their unpaid wages. The meeting is scheduled for Saturday and comes after a week of army unrest. A BBC correspondent in Conakry says there has been an air of panic in the city as soldiers took to the streets firing shots in the air. On Thursday, a civilian was shot dead and eight injured when soldiers opened fire in the southern town of Gueckedou. The protests began last week when the soldiers alleged President Lansana Conte had gone back on his pledge to increase their wages after an army mutiny in 1996. Guinea was the scene of violent protests earlier this year as people called for the ailing president to step down. A three-week general strike ended after a military crackdown and the appointment of a consensus prime minister. The BBC's Alhassan Sillah in Conakry says the situation remains very tense. [Prime Minister] Kouyate cannot solve the situation by asking the bank to print some money The soldiers marched into the city centre to the army headquarters. Shops and market stalls closed as people rushed to get home and pick their children up from school. At the height of the stand-off, two government radio stations went off air. There were also reports of disturbances in Kindia and Mamou in the east and Macenta in the south. Last week, a spokesman for the aggrieved soldiers told the BBC they wanted their promised 11-year salary arrears paid. He also said they wanted the resignation of senior military officials including the army chief, Gen Kelfala Camara, and the new Defence Minister, Arafan Camara. Guinea analyst Gilles Yabi, from the International Crisis Group, says these events do not come as a surprise. The deal emerged after days of intense negotiation "Even in the middle of demonstrations in January and February there were signs of discontent within the military... it was not connected to the political situation, it was really because of their conditions," he told the BBC's Focus on Africa programme. "The soldiers want to be rewarded for the loyalty they've maintained towards President Lansana Conte," he said. But Mr Yabi said it puts the new prime minister, Lansana Kouyate, in a very difficult position. He was appointed to curb inflation and bring in badly needed economic reforms. "That means that Kouyate cannot solve the situation by asking the bank to print some money," Mr Yabi said. Although Guinea's mineral wealth makes it potentially one of Africa's richest countries, its people are among the poorest in West Africa. Mr Conte seized power in a bloodless coup in 1984 and in 2003 won a third term in a poll boycotted by the opposition. E-mail this to a friend 'I'm afraid for Guinea' Protest clashes in pictures 'Two people shot before my eyes' Guinea's strongman Lansana Conte starts to feel the heat Q&A: State of siege Inside the power vacuum Taking control of mineral wealth Voices on the crisis The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites UN to decide on Zimbabwe key role Guinea soldiers suspend protest Africa air staff 'being poached' MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Google searches web's dark side Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Gang members get life for murder Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/programmes/from_our_own_correspondent/6625393.stm	BBC NEWS | Programmes | From Our Own Correspondent | Making a public splash in Saudi Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Saturday, 5 May 2007, 11:03 GMT 12:03 UK E-mail this to a friend Making a public splash in Saudi BBC News, Saudi Arabia A new university for women is opening in Riyadh - yet Saudi Arabia remains a country where women cannot vote, drive, dress as they like or go where they please. The women of Saudi Arabia are not just folded away behind swathes of hot black cloth - they live segregated lives When I moved to the Middle East six months ago, I knew I would have to bid farewell to my arms and legs. But I was happy to be working in the region, so I did not resent having to put my skirts and dresses into storage. But as I prepared for my first trip to Saudi Arabia, I was bristling at the thought of having to wear an abaya - the all-enveloping black cloak that turns the women of the Gulf into mournful ghosts. Perhaps that is why I called the hotel before I arrived, to ask a question I already knew the answer to - will I be able to use the swimming pool? The response was a small silence, and then an embarrassed laugh. "Er, No madam. The pool is, of course, for men only. I am so sorry." I have to congratulate you, Madam, I think you are the first woman to swim in public in all Saudi Arabia The women of Saudi Arabia are not just folded away behind swathes of hot black cloth, they live segregated lives, ushered out of the all-male public spaces into so called "family" areas, escorted everywhere by husbands or male relatives, and expected to ask for male permission to travel. So the idea of women swimming in public was laughable. Undeterred, I wrote a slightly uppity e-mail to the manager of the hotel, protesting that whatever discrimination I expected in the country, I didn't expect it in an international hotel, and asking how he could justify charging me the same price for a lesser service. I suggested that he could arrange a single sex time for women to swim. I even offered to swim in my abaya. To my surprise, he agreed to my request. The pool would be mine between six and seven in the morning. So, wishing I had someone to witness me swimming in cloak and goggles, I arrived for my swim, at dawn. The night manager of the leisure centre, Walid, was waiting for me, in a state of nervous excitement. "Good morning Madam," he said. "We have everything ready for you. We have cordoned off the pool, placed screens all around." "So if you have everything you need I shall lock you out here so that you won't be disturbed." He paused for a moment with his keys, and fixed me with a conspiratorial look. "I have to congratulate you, Madam, I think you are the first woman to swim in public in all Saudi Arabia!" Saudi leaders say women will be allowed to vote in 2009 I grinned. "A small revolution?" I asked. "No a big revolution. I don't think you realise how big," he said, shaking his head in amazement. "So since you've screened it all off, does that mean I don't have to wear an abaya?" I asked. "You can wear what you want," he said, smiling, "No-one can see you." I didn't feel this was the moment to point out that I was swimming in the open air, at the foot of the tallest building in the country. There was a 41-storey skyscraper looking down upon this scandal. I couldn't help but gaze up at it between lengths, and giggle. Later that day I met an impressive woman of the Gulf called Haya Rashed al Khalifa. Haya is one of Bahrain's first female lawyers, and currently the President of the United Nations General Assembly. She was in Riyadh to address a gathering of Arab heads of state; an unusual occasion in a region where female politicians are still an unfamiliar sight. The first nationwide elections only took place here two years ago. Women were not allowed to vote, let alone stand as candidates. But Haya told the rows of men seated in front of her that they could not avoid change any longer. The right to swim comes a long way down the list of demands of the women in Saudi Arabia - well below the right to vote, or the right to drive a car It was time, she told the Arab leaders, that they recognised that women are part of the human race. Meeting Haya later, I told her I was struck by her optimism. This repression of women, she told me, is not about Islam. It is about culture. Just look at how interpretations of Islam shift with geography. The closer countries are to other civilisations - the more progressive they are. Take Tunisia, in North Africa, where women have had full rights for 50 years. The tides of change have now reached the Gulf. I told her about my small ripple at the hotel. Her jaw dropped. "You asked to swim in Saudi Arabia? Young lady," she said, "that is more of a breakthrough than mine!" It wasn't of course. The right to swim comes a long way down the list of demands of the women in Saudi Arabia - well below the right to vote, or the right to drive a car. But the Saudi leaders are beginning to address that list. They have said that women will be allowed to vote in the local elections of 2009. If they keep their promise, that will be a revolution. The women voters might still be hidden beneath abayas, but they surely won't be expected to bring their male escorts into the voting booths. Will they? From Our Own Correspondent was broadcast on Saturday 5 May April, 2007 at 1130 GMT on BBC Radio 4. Please check the for World Service transmission times. E-mail this to a friend Personal reflections by BBC correspondents around the world SEARCH FROM OUR OWN CORRESPONDENT: Three Ways to Listen From Our Own Correspondent Country profile: Saudi Arabia 20 Apr 07 | Country profiles 20 Apr 07 | Country profiles Saudi Arabia Information Resource (government run) The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Google searches web's dark side Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Gang members get life for murder Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/africa/6646217.stm	BBC NEWS | World | Africa | Africa air staff 'being poached' Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 11:57 GMT 12:57 UK E-mail this to a friend Africa air staff 'being poached' The Kenya Airways plane came down in dense mangrove swamps Middle Eastern and Asian companies lure away pilots, engineers and cabin crew trained in Africa, the head of the African Airlines Association has said. Christian Folly-Kossi told a two-day aviation conference that more needs to be done to stop Africa's aviation experts from being poached. He also called for increased security after a recent air crash in Cameroon. It remains unclear why a Kenya Airways Boeing 737 crashed into swampland, killing all 114 people on board. The plane went down shortly after take-off from Douala International Airport last week. Speaking in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, Mr Folly-Kossi said the "brain drain" was a serious problem for Africa's aviation industry. "African officials responsible for aviation must use their political and diplomatic power to stop the poaching, which threatens African airlines," the Reuters news agency reported him as saying. Meanwhile, the BBC's Randy Joe Sa'ah, in Cameroon, says there is growing anger about the slow recovery process among the families of the 114 crash victims. They say they are not being allowed access either to the crash site near Douala or to the morgue where the bodies are being stored. The chief executive of Kenya Airways, Titus Naikuni, has denied reports that the cockpit voice recorder had been found. He told a press conference broadcast on KBC TV that rescue efforts were still continuing, but heavy rains were hampering recovery efforts. E-mail this to a friend Questions raised by Cameroon crash 09 May 07 | Africa Flying in the face of adversity 18 Dec 06 | Africa Cameroon villagers hunt for bodies 07 May 07 | Africa Grief and confusion in Kenya 07 May 07 | Africa In pictures: Cameroon crash scene 07 May 07 | In Pictures Cameroon air crash site located 06 May 07 | Africa Kenya plane 'crashes in Cameroon' 05 May 07 | Africa 05 May 07 | Europe The African Airlines Association The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites UN to decide on Zimbabwe key role Guinea soldiers suspend protest Africa air staff 'being poached' MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Google searches web's dark side Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Gang members get life for murder Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/world/americas/6647647.stm	BBC NEWS | World | Americas | US general warns against torture Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 16:54 GMT 17:54 UK E-mail this to a friend US general warns against torture Gen Petraeus said he understood the stress troops in Iraq are under The top US commander in Iraq has warned his troops not to sanction torture or abuse of Iraqi detainees and has urged them to fight by the rules. In an open letter, Gen David Petraeus said the argument that torture could elicit information quickly was "wrong". If the US wants to win in Iraq it must keep the "moral high ground", he said. It comes a week after an army mental health advisory team released a survey of troops in Iraq, which found a wide tolerance for torture and abuse. More than a third believed that torture was acceptable if it helped save the life of a fellow soldier or if it helped get information about the insurgents. About 10% of those surveyed said they had actually mistreated Iraqi civilians by hitting or kicking them, or had damaged their property when it was not necessary to do so. In his one-page letter, published on a military website, Gen Petraeus said he was concerned by the results of the survey, conducted last autumn but not released until 4 May. While we are warriors, we are also all human beings He wrote: "Some may argue that we would be more effective if we sanctioned torture or other expedient methods to obtain information from the enemy. They would be wrong. "Beyond the basic fact that such actions are illegal, history shows that they also are frequently neither useful nor necessary." Gen Petraeus also highlighted the finding that fewer than half those surveyed would be willing to report a fellow soldier for "illegal actions", such as abusing or killing civilians. He acknowledged the stress of battlefield situations but said troops must not hold back from reporting wrongdoing by fellow servicemen. "Seeing a fellow trooper killed by a barbaric enemy can spark frustration, anger, and a desire for immediate revenge. "As hard as it may be however, we must not let these emotions lead us - or our comrades in arms - to commit hasty, illegal actions." US forces "must observe the standards and values that dictate that we treat non-combatants and detainees with dignity and respect", he added. "While we are warriors, we are also all human beings." High-profile allegations of mistreatment of Iraqi detainees at Abu Ghraib prison and elsewhere have damaged the US military's reputation in Iraq and the Middle East. A hearing is currently under way in California for one of four US officers charged with dereliction of duty for not investigating the killings of 24 Iraqi civilians in Haditha in 2005. That inquiry is just one of a number the US military has been conducting into incidents of alleged unlawful killings by US forces in Iraq. The Pentagon report concluded that troops suffering from anxiety, depression or stress were more likely to engage in unethical behaviour. It also found that those on extended or multiple tours were more likely to suffer mental health problems. US Defence Secretary Robert Gates earlier this year announced that tours of duty in Iraq for active-duty troops would be extended from 12 to 15 months. E-mail this to a friend THE STRUGGLE FOR IRAQ US House passes Iraq funding bill Cheney addresses troops in Iraq US Marine 'shot unarmed Iraqis' Bush 'would veto new Iraq bill' Car bomb explodes in Iraqi city The Iraq summit was a limited success for US contacts with Iran and Syria Despair as Baghdad plan falters Massacre fuels northern tensions Baghdad: Mapping the violence Iraq violence in figures Baker's sweet smell of success Your views: Iraq four years on TV reports on Iraq US House of Representatives The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Pope names Brazil's first saint UK police face no action on shooting Virginia Tech students graduating MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Google searches web's dark side Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Gang members get life for murder Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/middle_east/6645777.stm	BBC NEWS | World | Middle East | New Jerusalem settlement planned Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 09:25 GMT 10:25 UK E-mail this to a friend New Jerusalem settlement planned Settlements cut off East Jerusalem from the occupied West Bank The Israeli authorities are planning to build three new Jewish neighbourhoods in East Jerusalem, an area regarded as occupied land under international law. The plan, which has yet to receive final approval, would involve building about 20,000 homes. The Palestinian chief negotiator, Saeb Erekat, said the plan destroyed efforts to re-start the peace process. He said Israel had to choose between settlements or peace, but could not have both. Yehoshua Pollak, Jerusalem's deputy mayor, said the intention was to create a contiguous Jewish residential area linking East Jerusalem with major West Bank settlement blocs. Israel has occupied East Jerusalem since 1967. It annexed the area in 1981 and sees it as its exclusive domain. This has not been recognised by the international community. Palestinians hope to establish the capital of their future state in the East Jerusalem. E-mail this to a friend Rival groups join forces in Gaza BBC's Johnston wins press award Hamas told to axe children's show MPs back beleaguered Israeli PM Israelis across the political spectrum unite at an anti-Olmert rally in Tel Aviv Wave of discontent in Israel Gulf in Mid-East narratives Timeline: Alan Johnston missing Israeli views on Halutz TOP MIDDLE EAST STORIES Clashes follow new Gaza operation Iraq leader says troops must stay New Jerusalem settlement planned MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Google searches web's dark side Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Gang members get life for murder Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/sport1/hi/tennis/6648151.stm	BBC SPORT | Tennis | Nadal powers into Rome semi-final Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Friday, 11 May 2007, 21:19 GMT 22:19 UK E-mail this to a friend Nadal powers into Rome semi-final Nadal outmuscled and outplayed the Serb Rafael Nadal matched John McEnroe's one-surface record as he notched up his 75th consecutive win on clay, beating Novak Djokovic at the Rome Masters. Nadal's 6-2 6-3 quarter-final win saw him equal McEnroe's run on indoor carpet from 1983 to 1985. Djokovic has won three titles this year but stood little chance as Nadal earned a semi-final with Nikolay Daveydenko. He reached the last four as he struggled to a 1-6 6-3 6-3 win over clay specialist Tommy Robredo. Roger Federer's conqueror Filippo Volandri kept up his recent good form with a 6-2 6-3 win over 12th seed Tomas Berdych. His semi-final opponent will be sixth-seeded Fernando Gonzalez, who beat Juan Ignacio Chela 6-3 6-4. Nadal, who was hospitalised by dizziness on Thursday, was in such impressive form that his opponent even applauded some of his passing shots towards the end of the first set. The Spaniard broke Djokovic in the opening game of the match, and the Serb survived seven break points in his next two service games before putting a drop-volley wide in the seventh game to go 5-2 down. Nadal wrapped up the set with ease and in the second set, two long forehands in the seventh game gave him another crucial break. Djokovic was broken again in the ninth game and with that, he was defeated. Nadal is aiming to become the first player to win this French Open warm-up tournament three times in a row, but was full of praise for his 19-year-old opponent. "Djokovic is a difficult opponent and he made me work hard for the win," he said. "He will be one to look out for at the French Open." Davydenko admitted playing Nadal would be a big challenge, as he seems to have few weaknesses. "I saw Robredo was tired in the second set. He wasn't running so quick," he said. "But Nadal runs in the first set, the second set, third set, every set the same." Federer suffers shock Rome defeat 10 May 07 | Tennis Roddick sees off Gaudio in Rome 09 May 07 | Tennis Federer breezes through in Rome 08 May 07 | Tennis Murray loses clay opener in Rome 07 May 07 | Tennis Henman suffers early exit in Rome 07 May 07 | Tennis Nadal crushes Federer in Monaco 22 Apr 07 | Tennis Nadal wins 'clay-grass' thriller 02 May 07 | Tennis Federer falls to Canas in Miami 28 Mar 07 | Tennis Canas ends Federer winning streak 12 Mar 07 | Tennis Latest tennis talk on 606 Tennis on the BBC The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites BBC PRODUCTS AND SERVICES Daily and weekly e-mails Back to top ^^ Privacy & Cookies Policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/programmes/from_our_own_correspondent/6625393.stm	BBC NEWS | Programmes | From Our Own Correspondent | Making a public splash in Saudi Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Saturday, 5 May 2007, 11:03 GMT 12:03 UK E-mail this to a friend Making a public splash in Saudi BBC News, Saudi Arabia A new university for women is opening in Riyadh - yet Saudi Arabia remains a country where women cannot vote, drive, dress as they like or go where they please. The women of Saudi Arabia are not just folded away behind swathes of hot black cloth - they live segregated lives When I moved to the Middle East six months ago, I knew I would have to bid farewell to my arms and legs. But I was happy to be working in the region, so I did not resent having to put my skirts and dresses into storage. But as I prepared for my first trip to Saudi Arabia, I was bristling at the thought of having to wear an abaya - the all-enveloping black cloak that turns the women of the Gulf into mournful ghosts. Perhaps that is why I called the hotel before I arrived, to ask a question I already knew the answer to - will I be able to use the swimming pool? The response was a small silence, and then an embarrassed laugh. "Er, No madam. The pool is, of course, for men only. I am so sorry." I have to congratulate you, Madam, I think you are the first woman to swim in public in all Saudi Arabia The women of Saudi Arabia are not just folded away behind swathes of hot black cloth, they live segregated lives, ushered out of the all-male public spaces into so called "family" areas, escorted everywhere by husbands or male relatives, and expected to ask for male permission to travel. So the idea of women swimming in public was laughable. Undeterred, I wrote a slightly uppity e-mail to the manager of the hotel, protesting that whatever discrimination I expected in the country, I didn't expect it in an international hotel, and asking how he could justify charging me the same price for a lesser service. I suggested that he could arrange a single sex time for women to swim. I even offered to swim in my abaya. To my surprise, he agreed to my request. The pool would be mine between six and seven in the morning. So, wishing I had someone to witness me swimming in cloak and goggles, I arrived for my swim, at dawn. The night manager of the leisure centre, Walid, was waiting for me, in a state of nervous excitement. "Good morning Madam," he said. "We have everything ready for you. We have cordoned off the pool, placed screens all around." "So if you have everything you need I shall lock you out here so that you won't be disturbed." He paused for a moment with his keys, and fixed me with a conspiratorial look. "I have to congratulate you, Madam, I think you are the first woman to swim in public in all Saudi Arabia!" Saudi leaders say women will be allowed to vote in 2009 I grinned. "A small revolution?" I asked. "No a big revolution. I don't think you realise how big," he said, shaking his head in amazement. "So since you've screened it all off, does that mean I don't have to wear an abaya?" I asked. "You can wear what you want," he said, smiling, "No-one can see you." I didn't feel this was the moment to point out that I was swimming in the open air, at the foot of the tallest building in the country. There was a 41-storey skyscraper looking down upon this scandal. I couldn't help but gaze up at it between lengths, and giggle. Later that day I met an impressive woman of the Gulf called Haya Rashed al Khalifa. Haya is one of Bahrain's first female lawyers, and currently the President of the United Nations General Assembly. She was in Riyadh to address a gathering of Arab heads of state; an unusual occasion in a region where female politicians are still an unfamiliar sight. The first nationwide elections only took place here two years ago. Women were not allowed to vote, let alone stand as candidates. But Haya told the rows of men seated in front of her that they could not avoid change any longer. The right to swim comes a long way down the list of demands of the women in Saudi Arabia - well below the right to vote, or the right to drive a car It was time, she told the Arab leaders, that they recognised that women are part of the human race. Meeting Haya later, I told her I was struck by her optimism. This repression of women, she told me, is not about Islam. It is about culture. Just look at how interpretations of Islam shift with geography. The closer countries are to other civilisations - the more progressive they are. Take Tunisia, in North Africa, where women have had full rights for 50 years. The tides of change have now reached the Gulf. I told her about my small ripple at the hotel. Her jaw dropped. "You asked to swim in Saudi Arabia? Young lady," she said, "that is more of a breakthrough than mine!" It wasn't of course. The right to swim comes a long way down the list of demands of the women in Saudi Arabia - well below the right to vote, or the right to drive a car. But the Saudi leaders are beginning to address that list. They have said that women will be allowed to vote in the local elections of 2009. If they keep their promise, that will be a revolution. The women voters might still be hidden beneath abayas, but they surely won't be expected to bring their male escorts into the voting booths. Will they? From Our Own Correspondent was broadcast on Saturday 5 May April, 2007 at 1130 GMT on BBC Radio 4. Please check the for World Service transmission times. E-mail this to a friend Personal reflections by BBC correspondents around the world SEARCH FROM OUR OWN CORRESPONDENT: Three Ways to Listen From Our Own Correspondent Country profile: Saudi Arabia 20 Apr 07 | Country profiles 20 Apr 07 | Country profiles Saudi Arabia Information Resource (government run) The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Google searches web's dark side Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Gang members get life for murder Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/programmes/from_our_own_correspondent/6639233.stm	BBC NEWS | Programmes | From Our Own Correspondent | Blair passes on his African vision Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Thursday, 10 May 2007, 11:07 GMT 12:07 UK E-mail this to a friend Blair passes on his African vision One of Tony Blair's biggest concerns has been the plight of Africa which he once famously described as a scar on the conscience of the world. The Africa Commission Report set out ideas for combating poverty There is a large yellow book on the top shelf of my bookcase. It is more than 450 pages in length, and I dip into it from time to time, whenever I need facts and information about Africa. It is the report that was drawn up by Tony Blair's Commission for Africa, two years ago. On the back cover, there is a photograph of the 17 commissioners - Tony Blair is in the middle of the front row. On his right-hand side, he is flanked by Gordon Brown and Bob Geldof. The Africa Commission was full of promise. The report starts with these words: "African poverty and stagnation is the greatest tragedy of our time. Poverty on such a scale demands a forceful response." Mr Blair, and those appointed to help him, wanted new ideas and action for a strong and prosperous Africa. And so, during the course of 2004 and 2005, the prime minister set about the task of trying to galvanise the rest of the world. Appropriately, the process began in Addis Ababa - the continent's diplomatic capital - where Emperor Haile Selassie and some of Africa's founding fathers created the Organisation of African Unity, back in 1963. Mr Blair spent time with villagers in Debre Zeit near Addis Ababa Mr Blair arrived there on a soaking wet October day, two and a half years ago, and was immediately taken by road to see a small project supporting orphaned children at Debre Zeit - an hour's drive from Addis. He was invited to sit on the grass in a field, encircled by the children who had come to entertain him with a traditional Ethiopian song. This was the prime minister rolling up his sleeves and getting a rare chance to find out what life is like in Africa's most deprived communities. He met an HIV-positive mother, who had been facing near-certain death. But the woman told Mr Blair how she had been given help, was now running a business and supporting her family. This, said Mr Blair, was what Africans needed - not just a hand-out of aid, but a helping hand to allow them to help themselves. The Blair visit to Ethiopia was all too brief. I wished he could have seen so much more - for this is a nation that epitomises so many of Africa's problems: extreme poverty, rapid population growth, abuses of human rights... And of course, Ethiopia - with its dramatic landscape - is a country that lies in a rough neighbourhood - the conflict-prone Horn of Africa. It was Bob Geldof who helped to put Ethiopia on the map two decades ago. In some Ethiopian villages time appears to have stood still So much has changed since the war-driven famine of 1984, but some things remain the same. And so, if he had stayed longer, I would have wanted Tony Blair to have taken the road that leads up the slopes of Entoto Mountain on the northern side of Addis Ababa. Here, the 4x4s and the battered old Addis taxis jostle for space with herds of goats and donkeys. But what you also see are women and young girls hunched over as they carry back-breaking loads of firewood from the eucalyptus trees on the mountainside. On foot, it is a long and arduous trek down into the city. And it is a medieval image - completely at odds with Tony Blair's vision of a modern, reformed Africa. It always serves as a reminder to me that it is going to take more than a few promises from the leaders of the Group of Eight industrialised nations to change the way of life here. I have never doubted Tony Blair's sincerity and commitment to Africa, but there is no question that he took on a gargantuan task when he sought to forge a new partnership between Africa and the developed world. Africa is full of surprises that can always throw a spanner or two in the works. The gap between Blair and Meles indicated a strained relationship The last time I saw the prime minister in this part of the world was at what was described as "a progressive governance summit", a small meeting of like-minded centre-left leaders who had gathered at an incongruous location - a small South African game park, north of Pretoria. At the news conference afterwards, Tony Blair was joined by - among others - the presidents of South Africa and Brazil. But Mr Blair had the misfortune - at the time - to find himself sitting next to Ethiopian Prime Minister Meles Zenawi, his erstwhile friend and member of the Commission for Africa. Only, Prime Minister Meles had - during 2005 - locked up members of the Ethiopian opposition after unrest following disputed elections. Another blow perhaps, to the "African Renaissance"? The body language between Blair and Meles, and the rather noticeable gap between their chairs at the news conference seemed to reveal a strained relationship. So now - in all likelihood - it is Gordon Brown who will take on some of the responsibility of keeping Africa on the world agenda. He has already done his fair share of cajoling at international finance ministers' meetings. And he has had some hands-on experience of the challenges in Kenya, Tanzania and Mozambique. But he may want to consider the words of one activist I spoke to this week, who said: "The battle against poverty is a marathon, not a sprint." From Our Own Correspondent was broadcast on Thursday, 9 May, 2007 at 1100 GMT on BBC Radio 4. Please check the for World Service transmission times. E-mail this to a friend THE BLAIR YEARS 1997-2007 From rebellious schoolboy to global statesman Blair will stand down on 27 June Key quotes from the Blair speech In quotes: Global reaction Prescott quits as deputy leader Deputy contenders claim support Q&A: Blair's exit plans How will history judge Blair? Three expert views on the PM's legacy The message in Blair's speech Being the prime minister's wife Blair years in statistics Robinson's verdict on Blair Highs and lows of the Blair era Blair's Cabinet of '97 Timeline: The Blair Years Blair: In his own words How others portrayed Blair How will he be remembered? The day I met Tony Blair England reacts to PM's departure What next for Blair? In his own words Decade at the top MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Google searches web's dark side Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Gang members get life for murder Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/asia-pacific/6644151.stm	BBC NEWS | World | Asia-Pacific | Koreas agree cross-border train Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 11:58 GMT 12:58 UK E-mail this to a friend Koreas agree cross-border train The South wants to secure future border crossings North and South Korea have ended four days of high-level military talks with agreement on cross-border train tests and the disputed western sea border. In a joint statement the two sides said they had agreed to provide security guarantees for a rail test-run across the border planned for next week. They also agreed to create a joint fishing zone in the West Sea, the scene of bloody naval clashes in the past. Analysts say the deal is a significant breakthrough for the two Koreas. South Korea has long sought security guarantees from the North for a train to cross the heavily fortified border. The test-run, scheduled for 17 May, will see the first such crossing since rail links between the two were severed during the 1950-53 Korean War. Tracks have been reconnected - alongside roads - as part of recent reconciliation projects. "The two sides have decided to discuss the issue of adopting a statement of agreement on military security for the operations of railways and roads," the joint statement said. If the test goes ahead, a train will cross from the North on the east coast and another will cross from the South on the west coast, officials said. They will travel about 25km (16 miles) and terminate their journeys a few kilometres inside the opposite territory. However, the north has resisted demands to allow further crossings after that. The talks by generals in the truce village of Panmunjom were extended into a fourth day so they could seek a resolution to the disputed maritime border, Yonhap news agency reported. Pyongyang does not recognise the border drawn by the United Nations at the end of the Korean War, which has resulted in naval clashes over the rich fishing grounds. Previous talks on cross-border trains have collapsed because of the North's insistence that the sea border issue be discussed. "The two sides have shared the view that preventing military conflict and creating a joint fishing zone in the West Sea is an issue to be urgently resolved in the course of easing military tension and establishing peace," Friday's joint statement read. This is the latest in a series of relationships that have slowly been re-established between the two sides in recent years, as the South has sought to engage with the secretive neighbour it is still technically at war with. A rail link would bring advantages to both sides. For South Korea, it would mean easily transporting goods produced using cheap North Korean labour. Seoul hopes one day to connect its rail network to the Trans-Siberian railway, which runs from China through to Europe. The line would boost tourism for the North by providing a link to a mountain resort on the east coast popular with South Koreans. E-mail this to a friend NORTH KOREA: SECRETIVE STATE US to give North Korea more time No outcry as deadline goes North Korea sacks prime minister Macau unblocks N Korean funds From atom to bomb What does it take to make a nuclear weapon? A Guide to North Korea Q&A: N Korea nuclear stand-off Images from inside secretive North Korea Diary of N Korea visit Holidays in North Korea History of the Korean War N Korea: Queries answered Nuclear deal: Readers' views North Korean news agency South Korean premier's office The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Koreas agree cross-border train 'New proof' of Japan sex slaves Ramos-Horta 'wins E Timor poll' MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Google searches web's dark side Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/europe/6648299.stm	BBC NEWS | World | Europe | Scholar defends Pope Pius' record Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 19:10 GMT 20:10 UK E-mail this to a friend Scholar defends Pope Pius' record Pius XII was Pope for 19 years A senior Catholic scholar has defended the Vatican's decision to put Pope Pius XII, who led the Catholic Church from 1939 to 1958, on the road to sainthood. Pope Pius has long been accused by Jewish groups and scholars of turning a blind eye to the fate of the Jews. A Vatican commission of cardinals and bishops unanimously voted this week for him to be considered for beatification. Professor Peter Gumpel said there was no truth in any of the allegations raised about the late Pope. He said that, as far as he was concerned, the objections that had been raised over the years had now been researched and discounted. "The case against Pius has been studied at length and in detail by many serious and independent scholars," said Professor Gumpel, a German Jesuit who contributed to the commission's work. "I would not have signed the research papers that we put forward to the commission if I believed there was any truth behind the objections or allegations that were raised." The commission, called the Congregation for the Causes of Saints, has considered the case of Pope Pius for more than three months. The cardinals and bishops - from Italy, Spain, Portugal, Mexico, Japan and the US - poured over six volumes of work comprising more than 3,000 pages and hundreds of documents. The file was compiled by a number of scholars and historians, of all nationalities, who have investigated many of the criticisms that have been levelled against the wartime Pope. Pope Pius abstained from signing the Allied Declaration condemning the extermination of the Jews. There have also been many objections to his case for beatification, fuelled over the years by the publication of several books that claimed the Pope cared more about securing a concordat with Nazi Germany than he did about saving Jewish lives. Critics have included John Cornwell, author of Hitler's Pope, and Daniel Goldhagen, who wrote A Moral Reckoning. The Vatican has always contended that the wartime Pope led quiet diplomacy that saved the lives of thousands of Jews. With the opening of the Vatican's pre-war archives to scholars in February, Professor Gumpel says researchers will soon have access to new evidence that proves Pius actually helped the Jews. With the investigation now complete, Pope Pius XII has overcome one of the biggest hurdles on the path to sainthood. Pope Benedict must still sign the decree and Pope Pius XII must still be credited with one miracle before he can be beatified - and another before he will become a saint. E-mail this to a friend The Pope's Turkey visit produces some of his defining moments, writes David Willey Europe diary: Turkish tensions Preaching to the unconverted Pope calls for religious exchange Trip covers sensitive ground Pope's visit: Head to head Benedict the unlikely pin-up pope Sympathetic ear for Pope Pope stresses respect for Muslims Key excerpts: Bavaria speech Pope Benedict XVI and Islam Profile: Pope Benedict XVI Election of Pope Benedict XVI BBC Religion and Ethics: Pope Benedict The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Polish court strikes down spy law Serbian parties in coalition deal Last goodbye for Blair and Chirac MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Google searches web's dark side Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://www.bbc.co.uk/syndication/	BBC Headlines for your site Put the latest headlines on your website, free of charge. Whether you are an experienced webmaster, or running a website for friends and family, adding a BBC News, BBC Sport, or CBBC Headline Box is simple with our four-step process, which you can complete online. Are you eligible to sign-up? The BBC Headline Boxes are available to all public access (no intranets), UK-based sites, subject to certain criteria. Click to read the criteria. If you then wish to apply, click the 'Sign up here' button. BBC News makes most of its news sections avalable in two XML formats - RSS and BBC News XML. If you would like to discuss either of these options with a Business Development manager, please complete the form below. Please select from the options below Please enter any additional information: Please enter your e-mail address: I would like to report a problem I would like to discuss RSS/XML Privacy & Cookies Policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/world/africa/6647195.stm	BBC NEWS | World | Africa | Guinea soldiers suspend protest Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 16:19 GMT 17:19 UK E-mail this to a friend Guinea soldiers suspend protest Soldiers say they were promised a pay rise after a 1996 army mutiny Soldiers in Guinea who marched on the capital have agreed to return to barracks after the president promised to meet them about their unpaid wages. The meeting is scheduled for Saturday and comes after a week of army unrest. A BBC correspondent in Conakry says there has been an air of panic in the city as soldiers took to the streets firing shots in the air. On Thursday, a civilian was shot dead and eight injured when soldiers opened fire in the southern town of Gueckedou. The protests began last week when the soldiers alleged President Lansana Conte had gone back on his pledge to increase their wages after an army mutiny in 1996. Guinea was the scene of violent protests earlier this year as people called for the ailing president to step down. A three-week general strike ended after a military crackdown and the appointment of a consensus prime minister. The BBC's Alhassan Sillah in Conakry says the situation remains very tense. [Prime Minister] Kouyate cannot solve the situation by asking the bank to print some money The soldiers marched into the city centre to the army headquarters. Shops and market stalls closed as people rushed to get home and pick their children up from school. At the height of the stand-off, two government radio stations went off air. There were also reports of disturbances in Kindia and Mamou in the east and Macenta in the south. Last week, a spokesman for the aggrieved soldiers told the BBC they wanted their promised 11-year salary arrears paid. He also said they wanted the resignation of senior military officials including the army chief, Gen Kelfala Camara, and the new Defence Minister, Arafan Camara. Guinea analyst Gilles Yabi, from the International Crisis Group, says these events do not come as a surprise. The deal emerged after days of intense negotiation "Even in the middle of demonstrations in January and February there were signs of discontent within the military... it was not connected to the political situation, it was really because of their conditions," he told the BBC's Focus on Africa programme. "The soldiers want to be rewarded for the loyalty they've maintained towards President Lansana Conte," he said. But Mr Yabi said it puts the new prime minister, Lansana Kouyate, in a very difficult position. He was appointed to curb inflation and bring in badly needed economic reforms. "That means that Kouyate cannot solve the situation by asking the bank to print some money," Mr Yabi said. Although Guinea's mineral wealth makes it potentially one of Africa's richest countries, its people are among the poorest in West Africa. Mr Conte seized power in a bloodless coup in 1984 and in 2003 won a third term in a poll boycotted by the opposition. E-mail this to a friend 'I'm afraid for Guinea' Protest clashes in pictures 'Two people shot before my eyes' Guinea's strongman Lansana Conte starts to feel the heat Q&A: State of siege Inside the power vacuum Taking control of mineral wealth Voices on the crisis The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites UN to decide on Zimbabwe key role Guinea soldiers suspend protest Africa air staff 'being poached' MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Google searches web's dark side Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/asia-pacific/6646297.stm	BBC NEWS | World | Asia-Pacific | 'New proof' of Japan sex slaves Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 13:00 GMT 14:00 UK E-mail this to a friend 'New proof' of Japan sex slaves About 200,000 women worked as Japanese sex slaves in WWII Reports from Japan say documents have been found that suggest the Japanese forced women to work as sex slaves during World War II. They come from the Dutch government archives and include the testimony of a 27-year-old Dutch woman from May 1946. The Kyodo news agency says the documents show women were coerced into prostitution in occupied Indonesia. Japan's PM Shinzo Abe had claimed no evidence existed to prove that women had been forced to work as sex slaves. The documents are reported to have been found by a Japanese journalist investigating Japan's wartime crimes in Asia. The Dutch woman's testimony says she had her clothes ripped off her by Japanese military police. She says she was taken to a brothel and forced to work as a prostitute, despite her efforts to resist. That testimony, it is claimed, was submitted to the Tokyo War Crimes Tribunal as evidence of forced mass prostitution in Magelang, in what is now Central Java, in 1944. Other documents are said to include further allegations that the Japanese forced women into prostitution. Earlier this year Prime Minister Abe said that investigations had failed to find any documentary evidence that the Japanese authorities in wartime had issued orders to soldiers to coerce women into sex slavery. He said though that he stood by a Japanese government apology to the women, known in Japan as "comfort women". The journalist who found these documents says they contradict the prime minister's denial that the authorities were directly involved in coercion. The Japanese Foreign Ministry says it is aware of his claims but has not seen the documents so cannot comment on what they might contain. It says the Japanese government has investigated its wartime activities in Indonesia thoroughly and acknowledges and apologises for the country's wartime use of sex slaves. E-mail this to a friend Abe explains sex slave comments 27 Apr 07 | Asia-Pacific Japan's Abe heads to Washington 26 Apr 07 | Asia-Pacific Japan PM apology on sex slaves 26 Mar 07 | Asia-Pacific Viewpoints: Abe sex slave row 21 Mar 07 | Asia-Pacific Japan anger at US sex slave bill 19 Feb 07 | Asia-Pacific 26 Sep 06 | Asia-Pacific The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Koreas agree cross-border train 'New proof' of Japan sex slaves Ramos-Horta 'wins E Timor poll' MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Google searches web's dark side Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/world/americas/6648835.stm	BBC NEWS | World | Americas | 'Hostages held' at Russia embassy Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 21:55 GMT 22:55 UK E-mail this to a friend 'Hostages held' at Russia embassy The number of hostages inside the embassy is unclear An armed man has entered the Russian embassy in Costa Rica's capital, San Jose, and is believed to be holding several hostages, police say. It is not clear whether Ambassador Valery Nikolayenko or any other diplomat is among those seized. Officials later said four hostages had been released but a number of others are still thought to be held. Police are continuing to surround the embassy. The identity of the gunman - believed to be from the ex-USSR - is not known. "My understanding is that it is a hostage seizure," Costa Rican Public Security Minister Fernando Berrocal was quoted as saying by the AFP news agency. However, Russia's Itar-Tass news agency quoted unnamed Russian diplomats in Costa Rica as saying the incident was a quarrel between two visitors, not a hostage crisis. E-mail this to a friend Get the latest breaking news delivered to your desktop or mobile device Pope names Brazil's first saint UK police face no action on shooting Virginia Tech students graduating MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Google searches web's dark side Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/uk/6647865.stm	BBC NEWS | UK | Iraq leader says troops must stay Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 18:09 GMT 19:09 UK E-mail this to a friend Iraq leader says troops must stay Jalal Talabani (right) also met Tony Blair at Downing Street US and British troops will need to stay another one or two years in Iraq, Iraqi President Jalal Talabani has said. Mr Talabani was addressing students during a visit to Cambridge University. Asked when the UK and US should leave, he said: "I think in one or two years we will be able to recruit our own army forces and say goodbye to our friends." He added that he considered Prime Minister Tony Blair to be a "hero" and said he hoped Gordon Brown would continue his work. In the latest violence in Iraq, twin suicide bombings in south-eastern Baghdad have killed 22 people and injured 60. The victims include police officers, Iraqi soldiers and civilians. The attacks happened on two bridges in the capital which form a key route out of the south of the city. After a meeting with Mr Blair at 10 Downing Street, Mr Talabani said Mr Blair was a "dear friend" and a "great leader". I think it was a very noble job that your army and your people did in Iraq The Iraqi president expressed his sympathy towards the families of British forces killed in his country, who he said had died for a just cause. He said: "I am very, very sorry for the lives lost in Iraq." "I think it was a very noble job that your army and your people did in Iraq." Mr Talabani urged US politicians to reconsider plans to begin withdrawing their forces from his country. On Thursday, the US House of Representatives passed a draft bill that would provide funding for troops in Iraq only until July. Mr Talabani told reporters: "We are concerned. We hope that Congress will review this decision and help the American army to stay until the Iraqi army will be able to replace them and to protect the security of Iraq." E-mail this to a friend THE STRUGGLE FOR IRAQ US House passes Iraq funding bill Cheney addresses troops in Iraq US Marine 'shot unarmed Iraqis' Bush 'would veto new Iraq bill' Car bomb explodes in Iraqi city The Iraq summit was a limited success for US contacts with Iran and Syria Despair as Baghdad plan falters Massacre fuels northern tensions Baghdad: Mapping the violence Iraq violence in figures Baker's sweet smell of success Your views: Iraq four years on TV reports on Iraq Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Madeleine parents 'won't give up' 11 Menezes police face no action MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Google searches web's dark side Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://search.yahoo.com/mrss	Media RSS Module - RSS 2.0 Module "Media RSS" Specification Version 1.1.1 An RSS module that supplements the 02/21/2005 - Major consolidation of all requested changes: [1.0.0] Added additional type of element to distinguish content of an adult nature. Modified to have a attribute for better module consistency. to allow specifying categorization scheme. for a human readable label. element for media binary hashing. to distinguish formatting of text. Improved descriptions of various elements and attributes. 08/22/2005 - Improved global syndication capabilities: [1.1.0] attributes to media:text and media:content. to give more flexibility to represent things other than people or companies. to explicitly determine what type of media is expressed. Added a "Best Practices" section to encourage use of the Feed History module, and Dublin Core's expiration capability. Add time code information to 10/22/2005 - Minor improvements: [1.1.1] Added capability for elements to appear at the to allow explicit global relationships to be expressed. The namespace for Media RSS is defined to be: "Media RSS" is a new RSS module that supplements the enclosure capabilities of RSS 2.0. RSS enclosures are already being used to syndicate audio files and images. Media RSS extends enclosures to handle other media types, such as short films or TV, as well as provide additional metadata with the media. Media RSS enables content publishers and bloggers to syndicate multimedia content such as TV and video clips, movies, images, and audio. is a sub-element of . It allows grouping of elements that are effectively the same content, yet different representations. For instance: the same song recorded in both the WAV and MP3 format. It's an optional element that must only be used for this purpose. is a sub-element of either . Media objects that are not the same content should not be included in the same element. The sequence of these items implies the order of presentation. While many of the attributes appear to be audio/video specific, this element can be used to publish any type of media. It contains 14 attributes, most of which are optional. should specify the direct url to the media object. If not included, a element must be specified. is the number of bytes of the media object. It is an optional attribute. is the standard MIME type of the object. It is an optional attribute. is the type of object (image | audio | video | document | executable). While this attribute can at times seem redundant if is supplied, it is included because it simplifies decision making on the reader side, as well as flushes out any ambiguities between MIME type and object type. It is an optional attribute. determines if this is the default object that should be used for the . There should only be one default object per . It is an optional attribute. determines if the object is a sample or the full version of the object, or even if it is a continuous stream (sample | full | nonstop). Default value is 'full'. It is an optional attribute. is the kilobits per second rate of media. It is an optional attribute. is the number of frames per second for the media object. It is an optional attribute. is the number of samples per second taken to create the media object. It is expressed in thousands of samples per second (kHz). It is an optional attribute. is number of audio channels in the media object. It is an optional attribute. is the number of seconds the media object plays. It is an optional attribute. is the height of the media object. It is an optional attribute. is the width of the media object. It is an optional attribute. is the primary language encapsulated in the media object. Language codes possible are detailed in RFC 3066. This attribute is used similar to the attribute detailed in the XML 1.0 Specification (Third Edition). It is an optional attribute. These optional attributes, along with the optional elements below, contain the primary metadata entries needed to index and organize media content. Additional supported attributes for describing images, audio, and video may be added in future revisions of this document. have no limitations on the number of times they can appear, the general nature of RSS should be preserved: an represents a "story". Simply stated, this is similar to the blog style of syndication. However, if one is using this module to strictly publish media, there should be one element for each media object/group. This is to allow for proper attribution for the origination of the media content through the element. It also allows the full benefit of the other RSS elements to be realized. The following elements are optional and may appear as sub-elements of When an element appears at a shallow level, such as , it means that the element should be applied to every media object within its scope. Duplicated elements appearing at deeper levels of the document tree have higher priority over other levels. For example, level elements are favored over level elements. The priority level is listed from strongest to weakest: [NOTE: This is deprecated, and has been replaced with the more flexible This allows the permissible audience to be declared. If this element is not included, it assumes that no restrictions are necessary. It has one optional attribute. r (cz 1 lz 1 nz 1 oz 1 vz 1) is the URI that identifies the rating scheme. It is an optional attribute. If this attribute is not included, the default scheme is urn:simple (adult | nonadult). The title of the particular media object. It has 1 optional attribute. The Judy's - The Moo Song specifies the type of text embedded. Possible values are either 'plain' or 'html'. Default value is 'plain'. All html must be entity-encoded. It is an optional attribute. Short description describing the media object typically a sentence in length. It has 1 optional attribute. This was some really bizarre band I listened to as a young lad. specifies the type of text embedded. Possible values are either 'plain' or 'html'. Default value is 'plain'. All html must be entity-encoded. It is an optional attribute. Highly relevant keywords describing the media object with typically a maximum of ten words. The keywords and phrases should be comma delimited. kitty, cat, big dog, yarn, fluffy Allows particular images to be used as representative images for the media object. If multiple thumbnails are included, and time coding is not at play, it is assumed that the images are in order of importance. It has 1 required attribute and 3 optional attributes. specifies the url of the thumbnail. It is a required attribute. specifies the height of the thumbnail. It is an optional attribute. specifies the width of the thumbnail. It is an optional attribute. specifies the time offset in relation to the media object. Typically this is used when creating multiple keyframes within a single video. The format for this attribute should be in the DSM-CC's Normal Play Time (NTP) as used in RTSP [ RFC 2326 3.6 Normal Play Time ]. It is an optional attribute. NTP has a second or subsecond resolution. It is specified as H:M:S.h (npt-hhmmss) or S.h (npt-sec), where H=hours, M=minutes, S=second and h=fractions of a second. A possible alternative to NTP would be SMPTE. It is believed that NTP is simpler and easier to use. Allows a taxonomy to be set that gives an indication of the type of media content, and its particular contents. It has 2 optional attributes. is the URI that identifies the categorization scheme. It is an optional attribute. If this attribute is not included, the default scheme is 'http://search.yahoo.com/mrss/category_schema'. is the human readable label that can be displayed in end user applications. It is an optional attribute. This is the hash of the binary media file. It can appear multiple times as long as each instance is a different . It has 1 optional attribute. indicates the algorithm used to create the hash. Possible values are 'md5' and 'sha-1'. Default value is 'md5'. It is an optional attribute. Allows the media object to be accessed through a web browser media player console. This element is required only if a direct media attribute is not specified in the element. It has 1 required attribute, and 2 optional attributes. is the url of the player console that plays the media. It is a required attribute. is the height of the browser window that the should be opened in. It is an optional attribute. is the width of the browser window that the should be opened in. It is an optional attribute. Notable entity and the contribution to the creation of the media object. Current entities can include people, companies, locations, etc. Specific entities can have multiple roles, and several entities can have the same role. These should appear as distinct elements. It has 2 optional attributes. role specifies the role the entity played. Must be lowercase. It is an optional attribute. is the URI that identifies the role scheme. It is an optional attribute. If this attribute is not included, the default scheme is 'urn:ebu'. See: European Broadcasting Union Role Codes. actor anchor person author choreographer composer conductor director editor graphic designer grip illustrator lyricist music arranger music group musician orchestra performer photographer producer reporter vocalist European Broadcasting Union Role Codes Copyright information for media object. It has 1 optional attribute. is the url for a terms of use page or additional copyright information. If the media is operating under a Creative Commons license, the Creative Commons module should be used instead. It is an optional attribute. Allows the inclusion of a text transcript, closed captioning, or lyrics of the media content. Many of these elements are permitted to provide a time series of text. In such cases, it is encouraged, but not required, that the elements be grouped by language and appear in time sequence order based on the time. Elements can have overlapping times. It has 4 optional attributes. Oh, say, can you see By the dawn's early light specifies the type of text embedded. Possible values are either 'plain' or 'html'. Default value is 'plain'. All html must be entity-encoded. It is an optional attribute. is the primary language encapsulated in the media object. Language codes possible are detailed in RFC 3066. This attribute is used similar to the xml:lang attribute detailed in the XML 1.0 Specification (Third Edition). It is an optional attribute. specifies the start time offset that the text starts being relevant to the media object. An example of this would be for closed captioning. It uses the NTP time code format (see: the time attribute used in ). It is an optional attribute. specifies the end time that the text is relevant. If this attribute is not provided, and a time is used, it is expected that the end time is either the end of the clip or the start of the next Allows restrictions to be placed on the aggregator rendering the media in the feed. Currently, restrictions are based on distributor (uri) and country codes. This element is purely informational and no obligation can be assumed or implied. Only one element of the same can be applied to a media object - all others will be ignored. Entities in this element should be space separated. To allow the producer to explicitly declare his/her intentions, two literals are reserved: 'all', 'none'. These literals can only be used once. This element has 1 required attribute, and 1 optional attribute (with strict requirements for its exclusion). indicates the type of relationship that the restriction represents (allow | deny). In the example above, the media object should only be syndicated in Australia and the United States. It is a required attribute. If the "allow" element is empty and the type is relationship is "allow", it is assumed that the empty list means "allow nobody" and the media should not be syndicated. A more explicit method would be: specifies the type of restriction (country | uri) that the media can be syndicated. It is an optional attribute; however can only be excluded when using one of the literal values "all" or "none". "country" allows restrictions to be placed based on country code. [ "uri" allows restrictions based on URI. Examples: urn:apple, http://images.google.com, urn:yahoo, etc. The following are encouraged "best practices" when using Media RSS: If your feed is not an "incremental" in the traditional RSS sense, but rather an entire snapshot of all media available, please take note of the element. This element when set to "false" correctly informs the RSS reader that the current feed replaces the previously fetched feed. If you prefer to syndicate media more along the lines of traditional RSS, this specification also allows you to daisy chain multiple feeds together to compose a history of media that is available on your site. Expirations Using Dublin Core To the best of your ability, media that is scheduled to expire after a given time should be duly noted through Dublin Core's A recently created movie, using the RSS 2.0 element and without the use of the Media RSS module. A movie review with a trailer, using a Creative Commons license. My Movie Review Site Movie Title: Is this a good movie? A music video with a link to a player window, and additional metadata about the video, including expiration date. Discussions of great videos The latest video from an artist Oh, say, can you see, by the dawn's early light Several different songs that relate to the same topic. Discussion on different songs These songs make me think about blah Same song with multiple files at different bitrates and encodings. (Bittorrent example as well) Songs galore at different bitrates Cool song by an artist Thank you to everyone who has contributed to this specification, and to all those that sent suggestions and corrections. The Yahoo! Group " " has been instrumental in helping transform the initial Media RSS proposal into a working specification. While there have been many helpful individuals from this community, special thanks go to Danny Ayers, Marc Canter, Lucas Gonze, Vadim Zaliva, Greg Smith, Robert Sayre, Suzan Foster, Erwin van Hunen, Greg Gershman, Jennifer Kolar, Bill Kearney, and Andreas Haugstrup Pedersen. On the Yahoo! team: David Hall, John Thrall, Eckart Walther, Jeremy Zawodny, Andy Volk, and Bradley Horowitz. On the Google team: David Marwood and Peter Chane. Copyright &copy; 2007 Yahoo! Inc. All rights reserved.
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/sport1/hi/motorsport/formula_one/6646055.stm	BBC SPORT | Motorsport | Formula One | Alonso bounces back to set pace Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation F1 on Five Live>> Friday, 11 May 2007, 13:42 GMT 14:42 UK E-mail this to a friend Alonso bounces back to set pace Alonso is determined to win his home Grand Prix Fernando Alonso underlined how much he wants to win his home Spanish Grand Prix with the fastest time in practice. The world champion bounced back after being beaten by team-mate Lewis Hamilton in Friday's first session to dominate practice in the afternoon. Alonso set a best lap of one minute 21.397 seconds to beat Hamilton, who was fifth, by 0.791secs. The Renaults of Giancarlo Fisichella and Heikki Kovalainen were second and third, ahead of Ferrari's Felipe Massa. Hamilton improved by only 0.1secs over his morning time, while Alonso found nearly 0.9secs. Your views on the Spanish Grand Prix In the morning session, Alonso, who was outpaced by his rookie team-mate at the last race in Bahrain, set the early pace in 1:22.449, with Hamilton just behind. Both drivers improved their times on their second series of laps, but this time Hamilton was just over 0.1secs faster than the world champion. The 22-year-old improved his time again, by nearly 0.3secs on his third run, whereas Alonso did not go any faster, but the Spaniard was still clear of the Ferraris. Schumacher is attending his first GP since his retirement By the end of the afternoon Hamilton was sandwiched between the two Ferraris, with Kimi Raikkonen in sixth place, suggesting another close battle between F1's two dominant teams. The pace of the Renaults appears not to be indicative of a major step forward after their disappointing start to the season, according to Fisichella. "My feeling is that we are possibly a little bit closer to the cars in front of us," the Italian said, "even if we are clearly not fast enough to be second in the times on speed alone." Kovalainen added: "The target has to be to qualify in the top 10 but, just like at the last three races, it is going to be tough." Jenson Button continued to struggle in the Honda, managing only the 13th fastest time in the afternoon, just ahead of team-mate Rubens Barrichello. Button was 10th fastest in the morning, when he was nearly half a second down on Anthony Davidson's Super Aguri, which is effectively Honda's 2006 car. Button said: "We have made some small steps with the stability of the car since the last race but the outright pace has not yet improved a lot." Davidson dropped to 20th in the second session. Times from first practice at the Spanish Grand Prix: 1. Lewis Hamilton (GB) McLaren-Mercedes one minute 21.880 seconds 2. Fernando Alonso (Spa) McLaren-Mercedes 1:22.268 3. Kimi Raikkonen (Fin) Ferrari 1:22.291 4. Robert Kubica (Pol) BMW Sauber 1:22.446 5. Felipe Massa (Brz) Ferrari 1:22.565 6. Anthony Davidson (GB) Super Aguri-Honda 1:22.665 7. Jarno Trulli (Ita) Toyota 1:22.740 8. Ralf Schumacher (Ger) Toyota 1:22.843 9. Nico Rosberg (Ger) Williams-Toyota 1:23.048 10. Jenson Button (GB) Honda 1:23.114 11. Alexander Wurz (Aut) Williams-Toyota 1:23.131 12. Nick Heidfeld (Ger) BMW Sauber 1:23.170 13. Takuma Sato (Jpn) Super Aguri-Honda 1:23.316 14. Heikki Kovalainen (Fin) Renault 1:23.322 15. Giancarlo Fisichella (Ita) Renault 1:23.397 16. David Coulthard (GB) Red Bull-Renault 1:23.428 17. Mark Webber (Aus) Red Bull-Renault 1:23.444 18. Rubens Barrichello (Brz) Honda 1:23.479 19. Adrian Sutil (Ger) Spyker-Ferrari 1:23.954 20. Vitantonio Liuzzi (Ita) Toro Rosso-Ferrari 1:24.104 21. Scott Speed (USA) Toro Rosso-Ferrari 1:24.179 22. Christijan Albers (Ned) Spyker-Ferrari 1:24.396 Times from the second practice session: 18. Jarno Trulli, Italy, Toyota, 1:23.307 Follow live coverage of the Spainsh Grand Prix on BBC Five Live and this website. Qualifying starts at 1300 BST on Saturday, with the race at the same time on Sunday. Schumi hails precocious Hamilton 11 May 07 | Formula One Singapore to stage F1 night race 11 May 07 | Formula One Renault expect tough Spanish test 08 May 07 | Formula One Schumacher to attend Spanish GP 09 May 07 | Formula One Valencia streets to host F1 GP 10 May 07 | Formula One Ralf expects F1 drive next season 11 May 07 | Formula One Your say on Formula One - 606 Five Live Formula One The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites BBC PRODUCTS AND SERVICES Daily and weekly e-mails Back to top ^^ Privacy & Cookies Policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/sci/tech/6644697.stm	BBC NEWS | Science/Nature | Galileo firms miss key deadline Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Thursday, 10 May 2007, 22:25 GMT 23:25 UK E-mail this to a friend Galileo firms miss key deadline The Galileo spacecraft would be launched in batches The private consortium asked to run Europe's satellite navigation system, Galileo, has missed a key EU deadline for moving the project forward. The European Commission (EC) said the companies had made "insufficient progress", resulting in unacceptable delays and risks for public finances. This is likely to mean European taxpayers stepping in to cover an advance payment for construction costs. The EC is expected to present new plans to overhaul the project on 16 May. These will be sent for approval by the EU's transport ministers in June. The consortium comprises leading aerospace and telecom concerns: EADS, Thales, Inmarsat, Alcatel-Lucent, Finmeccanica, AENA, Hispasat, and TeleOp. The Commission set a 10 May deadline for them to come forward with a single company structure to run Galileo, a chief executive and common position from which to negotiate with EU representatives over the future of the project. On Thursday, the Commission announced that the target had not been met to its satisfaction. Michele Cercone, spokesman for the EC's directorate general for transport, said the Commission now intended to propose "different scenarios to put Galileo on the right track again". Galileo's planned network of 30 satellites will beam radio signals to receiving devices on the ground, helping users pinpoint their locations. The system's technologies are designed to bring greater accuracy and reliability to navigation and timing signals delivered from space. A European Commission and European Space Agency project 30 satellites to be launched in batches by end of 2011-12 Will work alongside US GPS and Russian Glonass systems Promises real-time positioning down to less than a metre Guaranteed under all but most extreme circumstances Suitable for safety-critical roles where lives depend on service Europe lofts Galileo satellite Q&A: Europe's Galileo project Galileo puts UK on map The original intention behind Galileo was that taxpayers in the EU would inject more than one billion euros (£0.7bn) into the early development of the project. The deployment phase - the launch of the satellites and the construction of ground stations - was expected to cost at least two billion more, with two-thirds of the investment being borne by the private sector. The latter was also expected to pick up all the running costs in the long term. The first demonstrator spacecraft, Giove-A, is already in orbit. A second, Giove-B, which has had some technical problems, should be in orbit by the year's end. The contract for the first four satellites proper in the final constellation was awarded at the end of 2004, but the time has now come to order the remaining 26. It should be the private concession making this spacecraft order - but with no progress on its formal establishment, it seems certain that European taxpayers will now have to shoulder a greater burden of the construction costs if Galileo is to stay on track. Mr Cercone said this option would be better for Europe's taxpayers in the long run. He likened the alternative options to the difference between leasing a car and buying one. "When you lease a car you pay less at the start, but it turns out more expensive in the end. When you buy a car for cash, you have to come up with the money sooner, but overall the car will cost less," he told a press briefing in Brussels. "If you apply this example to Galileo, it is less expensive to take on the entire construction of the infrastructure than it would be to guarantee for 100% a private loan at market value, as is the plan of the consortium." Under consortium proposals, public money would be used to guarantee the risks and debts of the project. But Mr Cercone said using public money to cover construction costs offered the best value for money and would protect taxpayers. Galileo was supposed to have started launching its 30 satellites by 2008. However, that date was postponed to 2011/12 due to previous disagreements between EU governments on how to pay for the system. E-mail this to a friend VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS Galileo versus US satellite navigation system Galileo system 'in a deep crisis' 08 May 07 | Science/Nature Galileo companies given deadline 22 Mar 07 | Science/Nature Galileo sat-nav in decisive phase 14 Mar 07 | Science/Nature Europe secures extra Galileo cash 31 Aug 06 | Science/Nature Boost to Galileo sat-nav system 25 Aug 06 | Science/Nature Europe launches Galileo satellite 28 Dec 05 | Science/Nature Navigating future for road charges 29 Dec 05 | Science/Nature European Satellite Navigation Industries Galileo Masters (UK Pages) The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Bandwidth leap for British forces Asian markets push illegal ivory Aboriginal remains fight resolved MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Google searches web's dark side Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/americas/6647647.stm	BBC NEWS | World | Americas | US general warns against torture Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 16:54 GMT 17:54 UK E-mail this to a friend US general warns against torture Gen Petraeus said he understood the stress troops in Iraq are under The top US commander in Iraq has warned his troops not to sanction torture or abuse of Iraqi detainees and has urged them to fight by the rules. In an open letter, Gen David Petraeus said the argument that torture could elicit information quickly was "wrong". If the US wants to win in Iraq it must keep the "moral high ground", he said. It comes a week after an army mental health advisory team released a survey of troops in Iraq, which found a wide tolerance for torture and abuse. More than a third believed that torture was acceptable if it helped save the life of a fellow soldier or if it helped get information about the insurgents. About 10% of those surveyed said they had actually mistreated Iraqi civilians by hitting or kicking them, or had damaged their property when it was not necessary to do so. In his one-page letter, published on a military website, Gen Petraeus said he was concerned by the results of the survey, conducted last autumn but not released until 4 May. While we are warriors, we are also all human beings He wrote: "Some may argue that we would be more effective if we sanctioned torture or other expedient methods to obtain information from the enemy. They would be wrong. "Beyond the basic fact that such actions are illegal, history shows that they also are frequently neither useful nor necessary." Gen Petraeus also highlighted the finding that fewer than half those surveyed would be willing to report a fellow soldier for "illegal actions", such as abusing or killing civilians. He acknowledged the stress of battlefield situations but said troops must not hold back from reporting wrongdoing by fellow servicemen. "Seeing a fellow trooper killed by a barbaric enemy can spark frustration, anger, and a desire for immediate revenge. "As hard as it may be however, we must not let these emotions lead us - or our comrades in arms - to commit hasty, illegal actions." US forces "must observe the standards and values that dictate that we treat non-combatants and detainees with dignity and respect", he added. "While we are warriors, we are also all human beings." High-profile allegations of mistreatment of Iraqi detainees at Abu Ghraib prison and elsewhere have damaged the US military's reputation in Iraq and the Middle East. A hearing is currently under way in California for one of four US officers charged with dereliction of duty for not investigating the killings of 24 Iraqi civilians in Haditha in 2005. That inquiry is just one of a number the US military has been conducting into incidents of alleged unlawful killings by US forces in Iraq. The Pentagon report concluded that troops suffering from anxiety, depression or stress were more likely to engage in unethical behaviour. It also found that those on extended or multiple tours were more likely to suffer mental health problems. US Defence Secretary Robert Gates earlier this year announced that tours of duty in Iraq for active-duty troops would be extended from 12 to 15 months. E-mail this to a friend THE STRUGGLE FOR IRAQ US House passes Iraq funding bill Cheney addresses troops in Iraq US Marine 'shot unarmed Iraqis' Bush 'would veto new Iraq bill' Car bomb explodes in Iraqi city The Iraq summit was a limited success for US contacts with Iran and Syria Despair as Baghdad plan falters Massacre fuels northern tensions Baghdad: Mapping the violence Iraq violence in figures Baker's sweet smell of success Your views: Iraq four years on TV reports on Iraq US House of Representatives The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Pope names Brazil's first saint UK police face no action on shooting Virginia Tech students graduating MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Google searches web's dark side Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/world/americas/6645555.stm	BBC NEWS | World | Americas | Pope names Brazil's first saint Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 17:53 GMT 18:53 UK E-mail this to a friend Pope names Brazil's first saint Believers from across Latin America cheered and waved flags Pope Benedict XVI has canonised Brazil's first native-born saint, Friar Galvao, to the cheers of up to a million faithful gathered in Sao Paulo. The Pope announced the sainthood from a throne flanked by bishops and choirs, and overlooked by a giant wooden cross. The Church has attributed two miracles to Friar Galvao, an 18th Century monk who is still seen as influential. The open-air Mass marks the highlight of the Pope's five-day visit to the world's most populous Catholic nation. Hundreds of thousands of believers from across Latin America cheered and waved flags at Sao Paulo's Campo de Marte airfield. Many had spent the night there. The BBC's Gary Duffy in Sao Paulo says the Catholic Church in Brazil is hoping that the Pope's visit and the canonisation will help reinvigorate the local church, which has lost millions of faithful in recent years to evangelical churches. Brazil's first native-born saint Lived from 1739 to 1822 Credited by church with 5,000 miracle cures Founded monasteries and convents in Brazil Profile: Saint Antonio Galvao Pope visit: Reporter's diary During the Mass, the 80-year-old pontiff encouraged his listeners to follow the example of the new saint by helping the needy "in an age so full of hedonism". He lauded Friar Galvao as a model of rectitude and humility, and went on to criticise the elements of the media that ridiculed the sanctity of marriage and virginity before marriage. After canonising Friar Galvao, the Pope also hugged Sandra Grossi de Almeida and her seven-year-old son, Enzo. She is one of two Brazilian females who the Church says are evidence of divinely inspired miracles that justify Friar Galvao's sainthood. Friar Galvao is remembered for producing Latin prayers written on tiny balls of paper that, when swallowed, had the apparent effect of curing a range of ailments. After taking one of these pills, Ms Almeida, who had a uterine malformation that should have made it impossible for her to carry a child for more than four months, gave birth to Enzo. Friar Galvao is also certified by the Church as healing a four-year-old girl said to have been considered incurable by doctors. I hope Pope Benedict XVI can help to resurrect our Brazilian Catholic identity Philippe Gebara, Rio de Janeiro Send us your comments Following the Mass, the Pope met some 430 Brazilian bishops at a Sao Paulo cathedral. Another highlight of the Pope's trip comes on Sunday, when a crowd of at least 350,000 people is expected to celebrate Mass in Aparecida, where the Pope will also take part in a conference of Latin American bishops. The forum, the first for 15 years, will bring together nearly 200 bishops and cardinals from Latin America and the Caribbean to set out the Church's agenda and future policies in the region. 'Sheep without a shepherd' On Thursday, the Pope received a rapturous reception from an audience of tens of thousands of young people gathered at a Sao Paulo stadium. Brazilians give their views on the Pope's stance on abortion and contraception His address focused on what he called the "snares of evil" - pre-marital sex, drug use, corruption, violence and the temptations of wealth and power. He urged the young to avoid these and asked them to "be promoters of life, from its beginning to its natural end". The Pope sparked controversy as soon as he arrived in Brazil on Wednesday by stressing his strong opposition to abortion, the subject of intense debate in the country, where some Brazilians are pushing for the legalisation of terminations. The World Health Organisation estimates that illegal abortions numbered more than a million in Brazil last year alone. E-mail this to a friend VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS Images from the open-air Mass in Sao Paulo Pope's Brazil tour: Diary Day Three 11 May 07 | Americas In pictures: Pope names Brazil saint 11 May 07 | In Pictures Catholic Church tested in Brazil 09 May 07 | Americas Wartime Pope on path to sainthood 09 May 07 | Europe Call for Brazil abortion debate 09 Apr 07 | Americas Factfile: Roman Catholics around the world 01 Apr 05 | World The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Pope names Brazil's first saint UK police face no action on shooting Virginia Tech students graduating MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Google searches web's dark side Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/world/europe/6646239.stm	BBC NEWS | World | Europe | Serbian parties in coalition deal Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 19:46 GMT 20:46 UK E-mail this to a friend Serbian parties in coalition deal Vojislav Kostunica will stay on as prime minister Serbia's main pro-reform parties have agreed to form a government, keeping out the largest party in parliament, the hardline nationalist Radicals. The coalition was agreed more than three months after the general election, and four days before a deadline for new polls expired. Serbian President Boris Tadic said caretaker Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica would stay on in the post. Radical parliamentary speaker Tomislav Nikolic has said he will resign. A parliamentary session will be held on Sunday to approve the new government. The deal was reached after hours of negotiations between President Tadic, leader of the Democratic Party, and Mr Kostunica, from the Democratic Party of Serbia (DSS). It has been reported that the ministries of defence and interior will be divided between these two parties. Democratic Party of Serbia (DSS) Earlier this week, Mr Nikolic was elected parliamentary speaker, prompting fears that Serbia could abandon the road to reform. The nationalist Radicals became the largest party in parliament in the January election. But no party has enough seats to govern alone. Reports said President Tadic, whose party is the most pro-Western, would take charge of the national security council, responsible for the hunt for the fugitive Bosnian Serb wartime leaders Ratko Mladic and Radovan Karadzic. The agreement involves the Democratic Party, the DSS, G-17 and New Serbia. The BBC's Nick Hawton in Belgrade says the deal marks an end to the immediate political crisis facing Serbia. But he says an even greater challenge lies ahead. The UN Security Council is currently discussing a plan to give Kosovo its independence, something demanded by its majority Albanian population. Serbia strongly opposes the plan and has vowed never to accept it. E-mail this to a friend VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS Moves to end months of political deadlock in Serbia 08 May 07 | Country profiles Political uncertainty stalks Serbia 08 May 07 | Europe Serbian media gloom at Radical's election 08 May 07 | Europe Serbian coalition struggle begins 22 Jan 07 | Europe Serbia nationalists claim victory 22 Jan 07 | Europe Kosovo looms large in Serb poll 18 Jan 07 | Europe Serbian Radical Party (in Serbian) The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Polish court strikes down spy law Serbian parties in coalition deal Last goodbye for Blair and Chirac MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Google searches web's dark side Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/world/asia-pacific/6641329.stm	BBC NEWS | World | Asia-Pacific | Ramos-Horta 'wins E Timor poll' Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 12:22 GMT 13:22 UK E-mail this to a friend Ramos-Horta 'wins E Timor poll' Mr Ramos-Horta (r) is an ally of the outgoing president (l) Nobel prize winner Jose Ramos-Horta is on course to be East Timor's next president, bringing congratulations from Australia and New Zealand. Election officials said Mr Ramos-Horta had won nearly 70% of the vote, but the official result has yet to be declared. His rival, Francisco "Lu Olo" Guterres, has conceded defeat. Although Mr Ramos-Horta has not yet formally declared victory, he has already made a speech vowing to heal the wounds of the troubled nation. Australian Prime Minister John Howard was among the first to offer his congratulations to Mr Ramos-Horta, whom he called "a person of great dedication and... a good friend of Australia". New Zealand's Foreign Minister Winston Peters said he hoped to work with Mr Ramos-Horta "in the difficult task of strengthening [East Timor's] young and fragile democracy". Mr Ramos-Horta, the current prime minister, is widely seen as more friendly with the West than Mr Guterres, of the ruling Fretilin party, who often takes a more leftist, nationalist line. The election commission said on Friday that, with all the ballots counted, Mr Ramos-Horta had taken 69% of the vote and Mr Guterres 31%. Founder of East Timor's independence movement Spent 24 years in exile after Indonesia invaded Won Nobel Peace Prize in 1996 Former journalist, fluent in five languages The final result is expected to be officially released later after it has been given court approval, a commission spokeswoman said. Mr Ramos-Horta said the result was not a cause of celebration, but the start of five years of hard work ahead. "I will honour what I told the people in the campaign: I will work for the poor, with the entire country, to unite it, and heal its wounds," he said. Mr Guterres conceded defeat, telling reporters he would "bow to the will of the people" and "do everything possible to support Ramos-Horta". The result is a blow to the left-wing Fretilin party, which has been a major force in East Timor politics. Fretilin appears to have fallen out of favour with voters since last year's violence between rival security forces, which resulted in street battles that left more than 30 dead and tens of thousands homeless. The party will have a fight on its hands to stay in government in next month's parliamentary elections, a correspondent in Jakarta says. The outgoing president Xanana Gusmao - an ally of Mr Ramos-Horta who has led the nation since it won independence five years ago, after breaking free from decades of Indonesian rule in 1999 - plans to run for the more powerful position of prime minister in the election. Observers hailed Wednesday's run-off as peaceful and free of intimidation - in contrast to the first round, which was marred by irregularities and fighting between rival supporters. This has raised hopes that the vote may prove to be a turning point for the impoverished and violence-wracked nation. E-mail this to a friend VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS Jose Ramos-Horta on healing rifts in East Timor Vote for new president Tears of East Timor's youth Optimism as East Timor votes Embattled E Timor PM resigns No happy ending forecast Emergency rule for E Timor East Timorese speak of the challenges facing their troubled young nation Refugees tell of torment Rocky path to nationhood The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Taiwanese prime minister resigns Russia clinches gas pipeline deal Birds 'starve' at S Korea wetland MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW A pygmy conference in the rainforest Underground search for 'God particle' Google searches web's dark side Zimbabwe to chair major UN body Hero's return for Knox-Johnston Most popular now, in detail New plea on Madeleine's birthday Thatcher unveils Falklands arch Woman destroyed her unborn baby Coalition troops missing in Iraq Eurovision's other 'Terry Wogans' Most popular now, in detail Estonia's statue row: Hand of Moscow or sure vote-winner? Pygmies hold a conference in Congo's tropical rainforest We meet Eurovision commentators from around the continent Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/world/asia-pacific/6641329.stm	BBC NEWS | World | Asia-Pacific | Ramos-Horta 'wins E Timor poll' Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 12:22 GMT 13:22 UK E-mail this to a friend Ramos-Horta 'wins E Timor poll' Mr Ramos-Horta (r) is an ally of the outgoing president (l) Nobel prize winner Jose Ramos-Horta is on course to be East Timor's next president, bringing congratulations from Australia and New Zealand. Election officials said Mr Ramos-Horta had won nearly 70% of the vote, but the official result has yet to be declared. His rival, Francisco "Lu Olo" Guterres, has conceded defeat. Although Mr Ramos-Horta has not yet formally declared victory, he has already made a speech vowing to heal the wounds of the troubled nation. Australian Prime Minister John Howard was among the first to offer his congratulations to Mr Ramos-Horta, whom he called "a person of great dedication and... a good friend of Australia". New Zealand's Foreign Minister Winston Peters said he hoped to work with Mr Ramos-Horta "in the difficult task of strengthening [East Timor's] young and fragile democracy". Mr Ramos-Horta, the current prime minister, is widely seen as more friendly with the West than Mr Guterres, of the ruling Fretilin party, who often takes a more leftist, nationalist line. The election commission said on Friday that, with all the ballots counted, Mr Ramos-Horta had taken 69% of the vote and Mr Guterres 31%. Founder of East Timor's independence movement Spent 24 years in exile after Indonesia invaded Won Nobel Peace Prize in 1996 Former journalist, fluent in five languages The final result is expected to be officially released later after it has been given court approval, a commission spokeswoman said. Mr Ramos-Horta said the result was not a cause of celebration, but the start of five years of hard work ahead. "I will honour what I told the people in the campaign: I will work for the poor, with the entire country, to unite it, and heal its wounds," he said. Mr Guterres conceded defeat, telling reporters he would "bow to the will of the people" and "do everything possible to support Ramos-Horta". The result is a blow to the left-wing Fretilin party, which has been a major force in East Timor politics. Fretilin appears to have fallen out of favour with voters since last year's violence between rival security forces, which resulted in street battles that left more than 30 dead and tens of thousands homeless. The party will have a fight on its hands to stay in government in next month's parliamentary elections, a correspondent in Jakarta says. The outgoing president Xanana Gusmao - an ally of Mr Ramos-Horta who has led the nation since it won independence five years ago, after breaking free from decades of Indonesian rule in 1999 - plans to run for the more powerful position of prime minister in the election. Observers hailed Wednesday's run-off as peaceful and free of intimidation - in contrast to the first round, which was marred by irregularities and fighting between rival supporters. This has raised hopes that the vote may prove to be a turning point for the impoverished and violence-wracked nation. E-mail this to a friend VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS Jose Ramos-Horta on healing rifts in East Timor Vote for new president Tears of East Timor's youth Optimism as East Timor votes Embattled E Timor PM resigns No happy ending forecast Emergency rule for E Timor East Timorese speak of the challenges facing their troubled young nation Refugees tell of torment Rocky path to nationhood The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Taiwanese prime minister resigns Russia clinches gas pipeline deal Birds 'starve' at S Korea wetland MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW A pygmy conference in the rainforest Underground search for 'God particle' Google searches web's dark side Zimbabwe to chair major UN body Hero's return for Knox-Johnston Most popular now, in detail New plea on Madeleine's birthday Thatcher unveils Falklands arch Woman destroyed her unborn baby Coalition troops missing in Iraq Eurovision's other 'Terry Wogans' Most popular now, in detail Estonia's statue row: Hand of Moscow or sure vote-winner? Pygmies hold a conference in Congo's tropical rainforest We meet Eurovision commentators from around the continent Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/middle_east/6643553.stm	BBC NEWS | World | Middle East | BBC's Johnston wins press award Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Thursday, 10 May 2007, 14:46 GMT 15:46 UK E-mail this to a friend BBC's Johnston wins press award Alan Johnston was abducted at gunpoint on 12 March BBC correspondent Alan Johnston, who was abducted in Gaza nearly two months ago, has won a major journalism prize at a London awards ceremony. He was named broadcast journalist of the year by the London Press Club for his work reporting from the Gaza Strip. Mr Johnston has not been seen since he was seized at gunpoint on 12 March. He has lived and worked in Gaza for three years and was the only Western reporter permanently based in the often violent and lawless territory. He has been widely acclaimed for his reporting from across Gaza, which is home to 1.3 million Palestinians. The awards ceremony was held a day after an Islamic group purporting to hold Mr Johnston issued demands for his release and distributed a tape containing an image of the reporter's BBC staff pass. The BBC has said it hopes the tape is a sign that Alan Johnston will soon be released. At the time of his nomination, the London Press Club pointed out that the decision to nominate Mr Johnston was taken before his kidnap. Mr Johnston's reports for BBC TV, radio and for the BBC News website offered some insight into how the volatile security situation in Gaza affected the lives of ordinary Palestinians. His abduction has provoked a strong reaction from journalists around the world, including among Palestinian media workers. An Islamic group released this image of Mr Johnston's ID card They staged a three-day strike to protest at Mr Johnston's seizure soon after his disappearance. In pleas to their son's captors, Mr Johnston's parents have appealed for his release, describing him as "a friend of the Palestinian people". Speaking at the awards ceremony, the Archbishop of York called for Mr Johnston to be freed, and told of his own imprisonment in Idi Amin's Uganda. The Archbishop described how he was "kicked around like a football and beaten terribly" in a Ugandan jail. Mr Johnston joined the BBC World Service in 1991 and has spent eight of the last 16 years as a correspondent, including periods in Uzbekistan and Afghanistan. E-mail this to a friend BBC's Johnston wins press award Demands issued on Johnston tape UN appeal for Johnston's release BBC's Humphrys honours Alan EU urges Gaza reporter's release More action urged on BBC man Alan Johnston: Your messages Use your blog to support Alan Johnston - here's how Sign the online petition Alan Johnston on the front line Living with risk in Gaza TOP MIDDLE EAST STORIES Coalition troops missing in Iraq Cheney warns Iran on Gulf visit Top Iraqi Shia party changes name MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW A pygmy conference in the rainforest Underground search for 'God particle' Google searches web's dark side Zimbabwe to chair major UN body Hero's return for Knox-Johnston Most popular now, in detail New plea on Madeleine's birthday Thatcher unveils Falklands arch Woman destroyed her unborn baby Coalition troops missing in Iraq Eurovision's other 'Terry Wogans' Most popular now, in detail Estonia's statue row: Hand of Moscow or sure vote-winner? Pygmies hold a conference in Congo's tropical rainforest We meet Eurovision commentators from around the continent Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/middle_east/6643553.stm	BBC NEWS | World | Middle East | BBC's Johnston wins press award Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Thursday, 10 May 2007, 14:46 GMT 15:46 UK E-mail this to a friend BBC's Johnston wins press award Alan Johnston was abducted at gunpoint on 12 March BBC correspondent Alan Johnston, who was abducted in Gaza nearly two months ago, has won a major journalism prize at a London awards ceremony. He was named broadcast journalist of the year by the London Press Club for his work reporting from the Gaza Strip. Mr Johnston has not been seen since he was seized at gunpoint on 12 March. He has lived and worked in Gaza for three years and was the only Western reporter permanently based in the often violent and lawless territory. He has been widely acclaimed for his reporting from across Gaza, which is home to 1.3 million Palestinians. The awards ceremony was held a day after an Islamic group purporting to hold Mr Johnston issued demands for his release and distributed a tape containing an image of the reporter's BBC staff pass. The BBC has said it hopes the tape is a sign that Alan Johnston will soon be released. At the time of his nomination, the London Press Club pointed out that the decision to nominate Mr Johnston was taken before his kidnap. Mr Johnston's reports for BBC TV, radio and for the BBC News website offered some insight into how the volatile security situation in Gaza affected the lives of ordinary Palestinians. His abduction has provoked a strong reaction from journalists around the world, including among Palestinian media workers. An Islamic group released this image of Mr Johnston's ID card They staged a three-day strike to protest at Mr Johnston's seizure soon after his disappearance. In pleas to their son's captors, Mr Johnston's parents have appealed for his release, describing him as "a friend of the Palestinian people". Speaking at the awards ceremony, the Archbishop of York called for Mr Johnston to be freed, and told of his own imprisonment in Idi Amin's Uganda. The Archbishop described how he was "kicked around like a football and beaten terribly" in a Ugandan jail. Mr Johnston joined the BBC World Service in 1991 and has spent eight of the last 16 years as a correspondent, including periods in Uzbekistan and Afghanistan. E-mail this to a friend BBC's Johnston wins press award Demands issued on Johnston tape UN appeal for Johnston's release BBC's Humphrys honours Alan EU urges Gaza reporter's release More action urged on BBC man Alan Johnston: Your messages Use your blog to support Alan Johnston - here's how Sign the online petition Alan Johnston on the front line Living with risk in Gaza TOP MIDDLE EAST STORIES Coalition troops missing in Iraq Cheney warns Iran on Gulf visit Top Iraqi Shia party changes name MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW A pygmy conference in the rainforest Underground search for 'God particle' Google searches web's dark side Zimbabwe to chair major UN body Hero's return for Knox-Johnston Most popular now, in detail New plea on Madeleine's birthday Thatcher unveils Falklands arch Woman destroyed her unborn baby Coalition troops missing in Iraq Eurovision's other 'Terry Wogans' Most popular now, in detail Estonia's statue row: Hand of Moscow or sure vote-winner? Pygmies hold a conference in Congo's tropical rainforest We meet Eurovision commentators from around the continent Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/programmes/from_our_own_correspondent/6639385.stm	BBC NEWS | Programmes | From Our Own Correspondent | A letter from Iraq to Tony Blair Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Thursday, 10 May 2007, 13:59 GMT 14:59 UK E-mail this to a friend A letter from Iraq to Tony Blair One issue threatens to overshadow Tony Blair's legacy, affecting his image and standing at home and abroad, the decision to go to war in Iraq. Even at the time of Saddam's fall, people were wary of the future I have never written to a politician in my life. But I very nearly made an exception for Tony Blair. It was towards the end of 2002, when it was already clear that the invasion of Iraq was only a matter of time. I found myself deeply torn. I had no illusions about the nature of Saddam Hussein. I had followed his brutal antics for years. I had been to his Iraq, and felt the all-pervasive fear instilled by his vigilant and ruthless police state. What a relief it was to get on the plane and feel that oppressive weight lifted off your shoulders, an experience that most Iraqis were denied. But when Saddam's excesses were at their worst, during the war with Iran in the 1980s, he was actually being discreetly supported by the Americans. Washington was turning a blind eye to human rights reports from its own State Department detailing how Iraqi children were being tortured in front of their parents to get them to confess or inform. In 1988, when the Iraqi air force dropped chemical bombs which killed thousands of Kurds at Halabja, I remember phoning the Pentagon, and being told: "We think it was the Iranians who did it." So on a personal level, I would be glad to see the end of Saddam Hussein and his harsh dictatorship. It was clear, long before it happened, that this was going to be a terrible mess. It had to be But the impending invasion was clearly not about to happen because he was a bad man. It might be the right thing, but it was being done for the wrong reasons - reasons that had more to do with the global ambitions of the ascendant neo-conservatives in Washington, and their desire to engineer a New Order in the Middle East. The chosen pretexts for the war - Saddam's alleged weapons of mass destruction and links with international terror - turned out to be simply invalid. I have often thought, over these past four years, of that regular cartoon slot in the satirical magazine Private Eye, entitled "Things We Seldom See". It features situations which would be blindingly logical, but just never happen. I wanted to propose one where President Bush addresses Saddam Hussein and says: "Mr Hussein, you were right. There were no weapons of mass destruction, and no links with terrorism. We'd like to apologise, and give you your country back." Apart from misgivings about Washington's real motives and objectives, it was clear, long before it happened, that this was going to be a terrible mess. It had to be. Iraq is a patchwork country, an ethnic and confessional cocktail, of Arabs and Kurds, Turkomans and Chaldaeans, Sunnis and Shiites. Iraq has been plagued with civil unrest and violence Such countries are usually held together by a strong centralised dictatorship, which could be benign or tyrannical. As soon as you admit the concept of democracy and take the lid off, it is bound to be difficult and chaotic in the best of conditions, in a place with no democratic traditions or culture. To blow the regime and all its control mechanisms away virtually overnight, through the massive use of force by people from halfway around the world, would inevitably plunge the country and the region into a long period of chaos, whatever exact form it would take. That is why I lay sleepless in my bed in Tehran, mentally composing that letter to Tony Blair that I never wrote. I was going to tell him, on the basis of three decades living and working in the region, that he was on the brink of a massive historical blunder. I never sent it, because I knew of course that it would not make a blind bit of difference, apart from perhaps salving my own conscience, and allowing me to say: "I told you so" - something that would bring no satisfaction at all. And so, four years on, look at what a terrible mess Mr Blair can now say goodbye to, and hand on to Gordon Brown. Where there used to be tight state control, there is massive terrorism on a daily basis. The Americans have been bombing Baghdad again, to quell Sunni militants and Shiite militias. At the end of the day, the British are minor players, politically important partners brought in on the coat-tails of the Americans They are building walls to separate districts, euphemistically calling them "gated communities". Millions of Iraqis have fled the country. In the south, British troops are trying to stifle Shiite militias which know they only have to wait, because the British will be gone before long. A transition of leadership in London is not going to make much difference on the ground in Iraq. Gordon Brown will be locked into a situation which he might or might not have chosen to get into in the first place, but will now be stuck with, and his options will be limited. At the end of the day, the British are minor players, politically important partners brought in on the coat-tails of the Americans. It is the outcome of their last-ditch struggle to control Baghdad and central Iraq that is crucial to the country's future. If it does not work, the coalition troops may start pulling out and we may find that Iraq's long nightmare has only just begun. From Our Own Correspondent was broadcast on Thursday, 10 May, 2007 at 1100 GMT on BBC Radio 4. Please check the for World Service transmission times. E-mail this to a friend Personal reflections by BBC correspondents around the world SEARCH FROM OUR OWN CORRESPONDENT: Three Ways to Listen From Our Own Correspondent THE STRUGGLE FOR IRAQ US House passes Iraq funding bill Cheney addresses troops in Iraq US Marine 'shot unarmed Iraqis' Bush 'would veto new Iraq bill' Car bomb explodes in Iraqi city The Iraq summit was a limited success for US contacts with Iran and Syria Despair as Baghdad plan falters Massacre fuels northern tensions Baghdad: Mapping the violence Iraq violence in figures Baker's sweet smell of success Your views: Iraq four years on TV reports on Iraq MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW A pygmy conference in the rainforest Underground search for 'God particle' Google searches web's dark side Zimbabwe to chair major UN body Hero's return for Knox-Johnston Most popular now, in detail New plea on Madeleine's birthday Thatcher unveils Falklands arch Woman destroyed her unborn baby Coalition troops missing in Iraq Eurovision's other 'Terry Wogans' Most popular now, in detail Estonia's statue row: Hand of Moscow or sure vote-winner? Pygmies hold a conference in Congo's tropical rainforest We meet Eurovision commentators from around the continent
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/programmes/from_our_own_correspondent/6639385.stm	BBC NEWS | Programmes | From Our Own Correspondent | A letter from Iraq to Tony Blair Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Thursday, 10 May 2007, 13:59 GMT 14:59 UK E-mail this to a friend A letter from Iraq to Tony Blair One issue threatens to overshadow Tony Blair's legacy, affecting his image and standing at home and abroad, the decision to go to war in Iraq. Even at the time of Saddam's fall, people were wary of the future I have never written to a politician in my life. But I very nearly made an exception for Tony Blair. It was towards the end of 2002, when it was already clear that the invasion of Iraq was only a matter of time. I found myself deeply torn. I had no illusions about the nature of Saddam Hussein. I had followed his brutal antics for years. I had been to his Iraq, and felt the all-pervasive fear instilled by his vigilant and ruthless police state. What a relief it was to get on the plane and feel that oppressive weight lifted off your shoulders, an experience that most Iraqis were denied. But when Saddam's excesses were at their worst, during the war with Iran in the 1980s, he was actually being discreetly supported by the Americans. Washington was turning a blind eye to human rights reports from its own State Department detailing how Iraqi children were being tortured in front of their parents to get them to confess or inform. In 1988, when the Iraqi air force dropped chemical bombs which killed thousands of Kurds at Halabja, I remember phoning the Pentagon, and being told: "We think it was the Iranians who did it." So on a personal level, I would be glad to see the end of Saddam Hussein and his harsh dictatorship. It was clear, long before it happened, that this was going to be a terrible mess. It had to be But the impending invasion was clearly not about to happen because he was a bad man. It might be the right thing, but it was being done for the wrong reasons - reasons that had more to do with the global ambitions of the ascendant neo-conservatives in Washington, and their desire to engineer a New Order in the Middle East. The chosen pretexts for the war - Saddam's alleged weapons of mass destruction and links with international terror - turned out to be simply invalid. I have often thought, over these past four years, of that regular cartoon slot in the satirical magazine Private Eye, entitled "Things We Seldom See". It features situations which would be blindingly logical, but just never happen. I wanted to propose one where President Bush addresses Saddam Hussein and says: "Mr Hussein, you were right. There were no weapons of mass destruction, and no links with terrorism. We'd like to apologise, and give you your country back." Apart from misgivings about Washington's real motives and objectives, it was clear, long before it happened, that this was going to be a terrible mess. It had to be. Iraq is a patchwork country, an ethnic and confessional cocktail, of Arabs and Kurds, Turkomans and Chaldaeans, Sunnis and Shiites. Iraq has been plagued with civil unrest and violence Such countries are usually held together by a strong centralised dictatorship, which could be benign or tyrannical. As soon as you admit the concept of democracy and take the lid off, it is bound to be difficult and chaotic in the best of conditions, in a place with no democratic traditions or culture. To blow the regime and all its control mechanisms away virtually overnight, through the massive use of force by people from halfway around the world, would inevitably plunge the country and the region into a long period of chaos, whatever exact form it would take. That is why I lay sleepless in my bed in Tehran, mentally composing that letter to Tony Blair that I never wrote. I was going to tell him, on the basis of three decades living and working in the region, that he was on the brink of a massive historical blunder. I never sent it, because I knew of course that it would not make a blind bit of difference, apart from perhaps salving my own conscience, and allowing me to say: "I told you so" - something that would bring no satisfaction at all. And so, four years on, look at what a terrible mess Mr Blair can now say goodbye to, and hand on to Gordon Brown. Where there used to be tight state control, there is massive terrorism on a daily basis. The Americans have been bombing Baghdad again, to quell Sunni militants and Shiite militias. At the end of the day, the British are minor players, politically important partners brought in on the coat-tails of the Americans They are building walls to separate districts, euphemistically calling them "gated communities". Millions of Iraqis have fled the country. In the south, British troops are trying to stifle Shiite militias which know they only have to wait, because the British will be gone before long. A transition of leadership in London is not going to make much difference on the ground in Iraq. Gordon Brown will be locked into a situation which he might or might not have chosen to get into in the first place, but will now be stuck with, and his options will be limited. At the end of the day, the British are minor players, politically important partners brought in on the coat-tails of the Americans. It is the outcome of their last-ditch struggle to control Baghdad and central Iraq that is crucial to the country's future. If it does not work, the coalition troops may start pulling out and we may find that Iraq's long nightmare has only just begun. From Our Own Correspondent was broadcast on Thursday, 10 May, 2007 at 1100 GMT on BBC Radio 4. Please check the for World Service transmission times. E-mail this to a friend Personal reflections by BBC correspondents around the world SEARCH FROM OUR OWN CORRESPONDENT: Three Ways to Listen From Our Own Correspondent THE STRUGGLE FOR IRAQ US House passes Iraq funding bill Cheney addresses troops in Iraq US Marine 'shot unarmed Iraqis' Bush 'would veto new Iraq bill' Car bomb explodes in Iraqi city The Iraq summit was a limited success for US contacts with Iran and Syria Despair as Baghdad plan falters Massacre fuels northern tensions Baghdad: Mapping the violence Iraq violence in figures Baker's sweet smell of success Your views: Iraq four years on TV reports on Iraq MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW A pygmy conference in the rainforest Underground search for 'God particle' Google searches web's dark side Zimbabwe to chair major UN body Hero's return for Knox-Johnston Most popular now, in detail New plea on Madeleine's birthday Thatcher unveils Falklands arch Woman destroyed her unborn baby Coalition troops missing in Iraq Eurovision's other 'Terry Wogans' Most popular now, in detail Estonia's statue row: Hand of Moscow or sure vote-winner? Pygmies hold a conference in Congo's tropical rainforest We meet Eurovision commentators from around the continent
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/business/6647737.stm	BBC NEWS | Business | Nigeria oil auction sees few bids Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 16:32 GMT 17:32 UK E-mail this to a friend Nigeria oil auction sees few bids Foreign oil firms in Nigeria have faced security issues The Nigerian government has auctioned 45 oil exploration licences, but failed to gain bids from big Western firms. Many were deterred by uncertainty over how the incoming government, which takes office on 29 May, will act. In their place came bids from small companies with little oil exploration experience. Chinese and Indian firms have already snapped up some top slots. Nigeria is Africa's largest oil producer, but attacks by militants have sharply cut production. Nearly 100 foreign oil workers have been abducted this year in the volatile Niger Delta region and 13 are in captivity. Many of those kidnapped in the Delta are seized by armed gangs wanting ransom money and are released unharmed once a payment is made. With the new government yet to come into office, there were fears that oil licences could be overturned or the terms and conditions would not be met. Of 11 deep offshore blocks, only two were bought by a small UK firm, Yorkshire Energy World. At the same time, international firms that were given priority to make bids declined the chance, leaving oil licences unclaimed. Of another 11 blocks - on the continental shelf - seven were claimed, proving more popular. Despite the lack of interest, some had feared it could be worse. "Everyone was so put off that they didn't get the right calibre of bidders, but the process has been much better than I expected," said Layi Fatona, managing director of Nigerian oil firm Delta Petroleum Resources. E-mail this to a friend Could 'people power' work? Poll mired in controversy Monitors slam poll 'charade' Relief for those who vote At the polls: Reporters' log At the polls: Voters' log Difficult day at state polls Nigerians reflect on their future after disputed elections What can Nigerian opposition do? The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Inflation 'pushing up pay deals' People 'pay less into pensions' Thomson frees cash to buy Reuters MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW A pygmy conference in the rainforest Underground search for 'God particle' Google searches web's dark side Zimbabwe to chair major UN body Hero's return for Knox-Johnston Most popular now, in detail New plea on Madeleine's birthday Thatcher unveils Falklands arch Woman destroyed her unborn baby Coalition troops missing in Iraq Eurovision's other 'Terry Wogans' Most popular now, in detail Estonia's statue row: Hand of Moscow or sure vote-winner? Pygmies hold a conference in Congo's tropical rainforest We meet Eurovision commentators from around the continent Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/business/6647737.stm	BBC NEWS | Business | Nigeria oil auction sees few bids Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 16:32 GMT 17:32 UK E-mail this to a friend Nigeria oil auction sees few bids Foreign oil firms in Nigeria have faced security issues The Nigerian government has auctioned 45 oil exploration licences, but failed to gain bids from big Western firms. Many were deterred by uncertainty over how the incoming government, which takes office on 29 May, will act. In their place came bids from small companies with little oil exploration experience. Chinese and Indian firms have already snapped up some top slots. Nigeria is Africa's largest oil producer, but attacks by militants have sharply cut production. Nearly 100 foreign oil workers have been abducted this year in the volatile Niger Delta region and 13 are in captivity. Many of those kidnapped in the Delta are seized by armed gangs wanting ransom money and are released unharmed once a payment is made. With the new government yet to come into office, there were fears that oil licences could be overturned or the terms and conditions would not be met. Of 11 deep offshore blocks, only two were bought by a small UK firm, Yorkshire Energy World. At the same time, international firms that were given priority to make bids declined the chance, leaving oil licences unclaimed. Of another 11 blocks - on the continental shelf - seven were claimed, proving more popular. Despite the lack of interest, some had feared it could be worse. "Everyone was so put off that they didn't get the right calibre of bidders, but the process has been much better than I expected," said Layi Fatona, managing director of Nigerian oil firm Delta Petroleum Resources. E-mail this to a friend Could 'people power' work? Poll mired in controversy Monitors slam poll 'charade' Relief for those who vote At the polls: Reporters' log At the polls: Voters' log Difficult day at state polls Nigerians reflect on their future after disputed elections What can Nigerian opposition do? The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Inflation 'pushing up pay deals' People 'pay less into pensions' Thomson frees cash to buy Reuters MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW A pygmy conference in the rainforest Underground search for 'God particle' Google searches web's dark side Zimbabwe to chair major UN body Hero's return for Knox-Johnston Most popular now, in detail New plea on Madeleine's birthday Thatcher unveils Falklands arch Woman destroyed her unborn baby Coalition troops missing in Iraq Eurovision's other 'Terry Wogans' Most popular now, in detail Estonia's statue row: Hand of Moscow or sure vote-winner? Pygmies hold a conference in Congo's tropical rainforest We meet Eurovision commentators from around the continent Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/world/default.stm	BBC NEWS | World Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation From Our Own Correspondent Saturday, 12 May 2007, 13:16 GMT 14:16 UK Violent clashes hit Pakistan city Political rivals battle in Karachi's streets, leaving 15 dead as Pakistan's ousted top judge tries to attend a rally. In pictures: Karachi protests Coalition troops missing in Iraq Five soldiers are killed and three are missing after an insurgent attack south of Baghdad, the US military says. Russia clinches gas pipeline deal Russia and Turkmenistan are to build a new gas pipeline around the Caspian Sea, in a setback for EU hopes. Zimbabwe to chair major UN body Guinea's defence minister sacked Taiwanese prime minister resigns Birds 'starve' at S Korea wetland Ukraine aims for Eurovision glory Pro-family groups call Rome rally ALSO IN THE NEWS Paris Hilton jail sentence could be halved, LA officials say The confused penguin who strayed 5,000km from home Golf: Mickelson maintains lead Pygmies hold a conference in Congo's tropical rainforest Cold War workers challenge Denmark over B52 crash Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS Thousands flee California wildfires Top judge at Karachi protests Zimbabwe chairs key UN body Costa Rica hostage drama ends More Video / Audio News WORLD SERVICE RADIO PROGRAMMES MOST POPULAR VIDEO AND AUDIO Top judge at Karachi protests Beckham in Madeleine appeal Battle on Haifa Street Plea on Madeleine's birthday AROUND THE WORLD NOW Africa air staff 'being poached' Nigeria oil auction sees few bids Cheney warns Iran on Gulf visit Costa Rica embassy drama ends 'New proof' of Japan sex slaves Ramos-Horta 'wins E Timor poll' Iceland votes in tight elections Galileo firms miss key deadline Top Iraqi Shia party changes name BBC's Johnston wins press award Uttar Pradesh low caste landslide US admits Afghan civilians killed MORE FROM BBC NEWS FROM OUR OWN CORRESPONDENT A letter from Iraq to Tony Blair Blair passes on his African vision Making a public splash in Saudi As a French person, I'm surprised the UK's leader can be swapped so easily without the British people majority's agreement Nasa unveils Hubble's successor 'New leads' in Madeleine search Hilton backs online pardon appeal Police 'unsure' Madeleine alive Mother in plea over missing girl Benedict XVI raises the difficult subject of abortion in Brazil 'Why my ethnicity means a very long wait for a kidney' Missing for 61 days Two ways you can show support for BBC's Alan Johnston ELSEWHERE ON THE BBC Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/world/default.stm	BBC NEWS | World Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation From Our Own Correspondent Saturday, 12 May 2007, 13:16 GMT 14:16 UK Violent clashes hit Pakistan city Political rivals battle in Karachi's streets, leaving 15 dead as Pakistan's ousted top judge tries to attend a rally. In pictures: Karachi protests Coalition troops missing in Iraq Five soldiers are killed and three are missing after an insurgent attack south of Baghdad, the US military says. Russia clinches gas pipeline deal Russia and Turkmenistan are to build a new gas pipeline around the Caspian Sea, in a setback for EU hopes. Zimbabwe to chair major UN body Guinea's defence minister sacked Taiwanese prime minister resigns Birds 'starve' at S Korea wetland Ukraine aims for Eurovision glory Pro-family groups call Rome rally ALSO IN THE NEWS Paris Hilton jail sentence could be halved, LA officials say The confused penguin who strayed 5,000km from home Golf: Mickelson maintains lead Pygmies hold a conference in Congo's tropical rainforest Cold War workers challenge Denmark over B52 crash Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS Thousands flee California wildfires Top judge at Karachi protests Zimbabwe chairs key UN body Costa Rica hostage drama ends More Video / Audio News WORLD SERVICE RADIO PROGRAMMES MOST POPULAR VIDEO AND AUDIO Top judge at Karachi protests Beckham in Madeleine appeal Battle on Haifa Street Plea on Madeleine's birthday AROUND THE WORLD NOW Africa air staff 'being poached' Nigeria oil auction sees few bids Cheney warns Iran on Gulf visit Costa Rica embassy drama ends 'New proof' of Japan sex slaves Ramos-Horta 'wins E Timor poll' Iceland votes in tight elections Galileo firms miss key deadline Top Iraqi Shia party changes name BBC's Johnston wins press award Uttar Pradesh low caste landslide US admits Afghan civilians killed MORE FROM BBC NEWS FROM OUR OWN CORRESPONDENT A letter from Iraq to Tony Blair Blair passes on his African vision Making a public splash in Saudi As a French person, I'm surprised the UK's leader can be swapped so easily without the British people majority's agreement Nasa unveils Hubble's successor 'New leads' in Madeleine search Hilton backs online pardon appeal Police 'unsure' Madeleine alive Mother in plea over missing girl Benedict XVI raises the difficult subject of abortion in Brazil 'Why my ethnicity means a very long wait for a kidney' Missing for 61 days Two ways you can show support for BBC's Alan Johnston ELSEWHERE ON THE BBC Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/programmes/from_our_own_correspondent/6625393.stm	BBC NEWS | Programmes | From Our Own Correspondent | Making a public splash in Saudi Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Saturday, 5 May 2007, 11:03 GMT 12:03 UK E-mail this to a friend Making a public splash in Saudi BBC News, Saudi Arabia A new university for women is opening in Riyadh - yet Saudi Arabia remains a country where women cannot vote, drive, dress as they like or go where they please. The women of Saudi Arabia are not just folded away behind swathes of hot black cloth - they live segregated lives When I moved to the Middle East six months ago, I knew I would have to bid farewell to my arms and legs. But I was happy to be working in the region, so I did not resent having to put my skirts and dresses into storage. But as I prepared for my first trip to Saudi Arabia, I was bristling at the thought of having to wear an abaya - the all-enveloping black cloak that turns the women of the Gulf into mournful ghosts. Perhaps that is why I called the hotel before I arrived, to ask a question I already knew the answer to - will I be able to use the swimming pool? The response was a small silence, and then an embarrassed laugh. "Er, No madam. The pool is, of course, for men only. I am so sorry." I have to congratulate you, Madam, I think you are the first woman to swim in public in all Saudi Arabia The women of Saudi Arabia are not just folded away behind swathes of hot black cloth, they live segregated lives, ushered out of the all-male public spaces into so called "family" areas, escorted everywhere by husbands or male relatives, and expected to ask for male permission to travel. So the idea of women swimming in public was laughable. Undeterred, I wrote a slightly uppity e-mail to the manager of the hotel, protesting that whatever discrimination I expected in the country, I didn't expect it in an international hotel, and asking how he could justify charging me the same price for a lesser service. I suggested that he could arrange a single sex time for women to swim. I even offered to swim in my abaya. To my surprise, he agreed to my request. The pool would be mine between six and seven in the morning. So, wishing I had someone to witness me swimming in cloak and goggles, I arrived for my swim, at dawn. The night manager of the leisure centre, Walid, was waiting for me, in a state of nervous excitement. "Good morning Madam," he said. "We have everything ready for you. We have cordoned off the pool, placed screens all around." "So if you have everything you need I shall lock you out here so that you won't be disturbed." He paused for a moment with his keys, and fixed me with a conspiratorial look. "I have to congratulate you, Madam, I think you are the first woman to swim in public in all Saudi Arabia!" Saudi leaders say women will be allowed to vote in 2009 I grinned. "A small revolution?" I asked. "No a big revolution. I don't think you realise how big," he said, shaking his head in amazement. "So since you've screened it all off, does that mean I don't have to wear an abaya?" I asked. "You can wear what you want," he said, smiling, "No-one can see you." I didn't feel this was the moment to point out that I was swimming in the open air, at the foot of the tallest building in the country. There was a 41-storey skyscraper looking down upon this scandal. I couldn't help but gaze up at it between lengths, and giggle. Later that day I met an impressive woman of the Gulf called Haya Rashed al Khalifa. Haya is one of Bahrain's first female lawyers, and currently the President of the United Nations General Assembly. She was in Riyadh to address a gathering of Arab heads of state; an unusual occasion in a region where female politicians are still an unfamiliar sight. The first nationwide elections only took place here two years ago. Women were not allowed to vote, let alone stand as candidates. But Haya told the rows of men seated in front of her that they could not avoid change any longer. The right to swim comes a long way down the list of demands of the women in Saudi Arabia - well below the right to vote, or the right to drive a car It was time, she told the Arab leaders, that they recognised that women are part of the human race. Meeting Haya later, I told her I was struck by her optimism. This repression of women, she told me, is not about Islam. It is about culture. Just look at how interpretations of Islam shift with geography. The closer countries are to other civilisations - the more progressive they are. Take Tunisia, in North Africa, where women have had full rights for 50 years. The tides of change have now reached the Gulf. I told her about my small ripple at the hotel. Her jaw dropped. "You asked to swim in Saudi Arabia? Young lady," she said, "that is more of a breakthrough than mine!" It wasn't of course. The right to swim comes a long way down the list of demands of the women in Saudi Arabia - well below the right to vote, or the right to drive a car. But the Saudi leaders are beginning to address that list. They have said that women will be allowed to vote in the local elections of 2009. If they keep their promise, that will be a revolution. The women voters might still be hidden beneath abayas, but they surely won't be expected to bring their male escorts into the voting booths. Will they? From Our Own Correspondent was broadcast on Saturday 5 May April, 2007 at 1130 GMT on BBC Radio 4. Please check the for World Service transmission times. E-mail this to a friend Personal reflections by BBC correspondents around the world SEARCH FROM OUR OWN CORRESPONDENT: Three Ways to Listen From Our Own Correspondent Country profile: Saudi Arabia 20 Apr 07 | Country profiles 20 Apr 07 | Country profiles Saudi Arabia Information Resource (government run) The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW A pygmy conference in the rainforest Underground search for 'God particle' Google searches web's dark side Zimbabwe to chair major UN body Hero's return for Knox-Johnston Most popular now, in detail New plea on Madeleine's birthday Thatcher unveils Falklands arch Woman destroyed her unborn baby Coalition troops missing in Iraq Eurovision's other 'Terry Wogans' Most popular now, in detail Estonia's statue row: Hand of Moscow or sure vote-winner? Pygmies hold a conference in Congo's tropical rainforest We meet Eurovision commentators from around the continent
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/programmes/from_our_own_correspondent/6625393.stm	BBC NEWS | Programmes | From Our Own Correspondent | Making a public splash in Saudi Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Saturday, 5 May 2007, 11:03 GMT 12:03 UK E-mail this to a friend Making a public splash in Saudi BBC News, Saudi Arabia A new university for women is opening in Riyadh - yet Saudi Arabia remains a country where women cannot vote, drive, dress as they like or go where they please. The women of Saudi Arabia are not just folded away behind swathes of hot black cloth - they live segregated lives When I moved to the Middle East six months ago, I knew I would have to bid farewell to my arms and legs. But I was happy to be working in the region, so I did not resent having to put my skirts and dresses into storage. But as I prepared for my first trip to Saudi Arabia, I was bristling at the thought of having to wear an abaya - the all-enveloping black cloak that turns the women of the Gulf into mournful ghosts. Perhaps that is why I called the hotel before I arrived, to ask a question I already knew the answer to - will I be able to use the swimming pool? The response was a small silence, and then an embarrassed laugh. "Er, No madam. The pool is, of course, for men only. I am so sorry." I have to congratulate you, Madam, I think you are the first woman to swim in public in all Saudi Arabia The women of Saudi Arabia are not just folded away behind swathes of hot black cloth, they live segregated lives, ushered out of the all-male public spaces into so called "family" areas, escorted everywhere by husbands or male relatives, and expected to ask for male permission to travel. So the idea of women swimming in public was laughable. Undeterred, I wrote a slightly uppity e-mail to the manager of the hotel, protesting that whatever discrimination I expected in the country, I didn't expect it in an international hotel, and asking how he could justify charging me the same price for a lesser service. I suggested that he could arrange a single sex time for women to swim. I even offered to swim in my abaya. To my surprise, he agreed to my request. The pool would be mine between six and seven in the morning. So, wishing I had someone to witness me swimming in cloak and goggles, I arrived for my swim, at dawn. The night manager of the leisure centre, Walid, was waiting for me, in a state of nervous excitement. "Good morning Madam," he said. "We have everything ready for you. We have cordoned off the pool, placed screens all around." "So if you have everything you need I shall lock you out here so that you won't be disturbed." He paused for a moment with his keys, and fixed me with a conspiratorial look. "I have to congratulate you, Madam, I think you are the first woman to swim in public in all Saudi Arabia!" Saudi leaders say women will be allowed to vote in 2009 I grinned. "A small revolution?" I asked. "No a big revolution. I don't think you realise how big," he said, shaking his head in amazement. "So since you've screened it all off, does that mean I don't have to wear an abaya?" I asked. "You can wear what you want," he said, smiling, "No-one can see you." I didn't feel this was the moment to point out that I was swimming in the open air, at the foot of the tallest building in the country. There was a 41-storey skyscraper looking down upon this scandal. I couldn't help but gaze up at it between lengths, and giggle. Later that day I met an impressive woman of the Gulf called Haya Rashed al Khalifa. Haya is one of Bahrain's first female lawyers, and currently the President of the United Nations General Assembly. She was in Riyadh to address a gathering of Arab heads of state; an unusual occasion in a region where female politicians are still an unfamiliar sight. The first nationwide elections only took place here two years ago. Women were not allowed to vote, let alone stand as candidates. But Haya told the rows of men seated in front of her that they could not avoid change any longer. The right to swim comes a long way down the list of demands of the women in Saudi Arabia - well below the right to vote, or the right to drive a car It was time, she told the Arab leaders, that they recognised that women are part of the human race. Meeting Haya later, I told her I was struck by her optimism. This repression of women, she told me, is not about Islam. It is about culture. Just look at how interpretations of Islam shift with geography. The closer countries are to other civilisations - the more progressive they are. Take Tunisia, in North Africa, where women have had full rights for 50 years. The tides of change have now reached the Gulf. I told her about my small ripple at the hotel. Her jaw dropped. "You asked to swim in Saudi Arabia? Young lady," she said, "that is more of a breakthrough than mine!" It wasn't of course. The right to swim comes a long way down the list of demands of the women in Saudi Arabia - well below the right to vote, or the right to drive a car. But the Saudi leaders are beginning to address that list. They have said that women will be allowed to vote in the local elections of 2009. If they keep their promise, that will be a revolution. The women voters might still be hidden beneath abayas, but they surely won't be expected to bring their male escorts into the voting booths. Will they? From Our Own Correspondent was broadcast on Saturday 5 May April, 2007 at 1130 GMT on BBC Radio 4. Please check the for World Service transmission times. E-mail this to a friend Personal reflections by BBC correspondents around the world SEARCH FROM OUR OWN CORRESPONDENT: Three Ways to Listen From Our Own Correspondent Country profile: Saudi Arabia 20 Apr 07 | Country profiles 20 Apr 07 | Country profiles Saudi Arabia Information Resource (government run) The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW A pygmy conference in the rainforest Underground search for 'God particle' Google searches web's dark side Zimbabwe to chair major UN body Hero's return for Knox-Johnston Most popular now, in detail New plea on Madeleine's birthday Thatcher unveils Falklands arch Woman destroyed her unborn baby Coalition troops missing in Iraq Eurovision's other 'Terry Wogans' Most popular now, in detail Estonia's statue row: Hand of Moscow or sure vote-winner? Pygmies hold a conference in Congo's tropical rainforest We meet Eurovision commentators from around the continent
http://news.bbc.co.uk/sport1/hi/golf/6648933.stm	BBC SPORT | Golf | Mickelson maintains Sawgrass lead Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Friday, 11 May 2007, 23:04 GMT 00:04 UK E-mail this to a friend Mickelson maintains Sawgrass lead Mickelson had four bogeys, two birdies and an eagle in his round S O'Hair, P Lonard (Aus), C Petterson (Swe), R Pampling (Aus) L Donald (GB), I Poulter (GB), P Harrington (Ire) Phil Mickelson eagled the 16th to maintain a one-shot lead after two rounds of the Players' Championship. Mickelson dropped three shots on his outward nine to fall behind Australian Nathan Green before his late fireworks moved him back into the lead. Australians Peter Lonard and Rod Pampling share third with Sean O'Hair and Sweden's Carl Petterson. It was another disappointing day for Tiger Woods, whose one-over-par 73 leaves him nine shots off the lead. Woods came perilously close to the cut but survived, though still faces a huge task to make an impression over the weekend. "I've left so many putts short and others have dived across the front of the hole because they didn't have enough speed," said Woods. "They're so slow, the greens, it's hard to make yourself hit the putts that hard. "You remember some of the putts being so fast and running out. They don't do that anymore." I think that double digits under par is probably going to end up winning There were few low scores on a tough, windy day at Sawgrass and Mickelson may well have been satisfied with his level-par round. He still had some work after eagling the 16th - first parring the treacherous island hole 17th, and then producing a fine chip from the edge of the green on 18 after he had found the rough off the tee. "It gives me confidence heading into the weekend but I need to strike the ball better," said Mickelson after his round. And with the prospect of lighter winds over the weekend, he added: "I think that double digits under par is probably going to end up winning." One player who found no trouble with the wind was Spain's Jose Maria Olazabal. He moved up the leaderboard with a superb 66, which included a spell of four straight birdies. Who will win the Players' Championship? The Spaniard was in danger of missing the cut after beginning his second round with a bogey but added eight birdies to lie on level par. Only two British players made the cut, with Ian Poulter (71) and Luke Donald (72) equal 38th while Ireland's Padraig Harrington (70) stayed in contention seven strokes off the lead. Brian Davis, who had led the British contingent after the opening day, had a disastrous 80 to miss the cut on seven over. Also missing out on the weekend rounds are Ryder Cup team-mates Colin Montgomerie, whose 74 left him on six over, and Paul Casey who had a six-over 78 to finish on 10 over. American Hunter Mahon hit the first-ever albatross in Players' Championship history when he holed out with a five-iron from 227 yards for a two at the par-five 11th. Mickelson leads as Woods labours 10 May 07 | Golf Woods expects Sawgrass challenge 09 May 07 | Golf Woods battles to Wachovia victory 06 May 07 | Golf Ames charges to Sawgrass victory 26 Mar 06 | Golf Golf on the BBC Latest golf discussions on 606 The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites BBC PRODUCTS AND SERVICES Daily and weekly e-mails Back to top ^^ Privacy & Cookies Policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/sport1/hi/golf/6648933.stm	BBC SPORT | Golf | Mickelson maintains Sawgrass lead Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Friday, 11 May 2007, 23:04 GMT 00:04 UK E-mail this to a friend Mickelson maintains Sawgrass lead Mickelson had four bogeys, two birdies and an eagle in his round S O'Hair, P Lonard (Aus), C Petterson (Swe), R Pampling (Aus) L Donald (GB), I Poulter (GB), P Harrington (Ire) Phil Mickelson eagled the 16th to maintain a one-shot lead after two rounds of the Players' Championship. Mickelson dropped three shots on his outward nine to fall behind Australian Nathan Green before his late fireworks moved him back into the lead. Australians Peter Lonard and Rod Pampling share third with Sean O'Hair and Sweden's Carl Petterson. It was another disappointing day for Tiger Woods, whose one-over-par 73 leaves him nine shots off the lead. Woods came perilously close to the cut but survived, though still faces a huge task to make an impression over the weekend. "I've left so many putts short and others have dived across the front of the hole because they didn't have enough speed," said Woods. "They're so slow, the greens, it's hard to make yourself hit the putts that hard. "You remember some of the putts being so fast and running out. They don't do that anymore." I think that double digits under par is probably going to end up winning There were few low scores on a tough, windy day at Sawgrass and Mickelson may well have been satisfied with his level-par round. He still had some work after eagling the 16th - first parring the treacherous island hole 17th, and then producing a fine chip from the edge of the green on 18 after he had found the rough off the tee. "It gives me confidence heading into the weekend but I need to strike the ball better," said Mickelson after his round. And with the prospect of lighter winds over the weekend, he added: "I think that double digits under par is probably going to end up winning." One player who found no trouble with the wind was Spain's Jose Maria Olazabal. He moved up the leaderboard with a superb 66, which included a spell of four straight birdies. Who will win the Players' Championship? The Spaniard was in danger of missing the cut after beginning his second round with a bogey but added eight birdies to lie on level par. Only two British players made the cut, with Ian Poulter (71) and Luke Donald (72) equal 38th while Ireland's Padraig Harrington (70) stayed in contention seven strokes off the lead. Brian Davis, who had led the British contingent after the opening day, had a disastrous 80 to miss the cut on seven over. Also missing out on the weekend rounds are Ryder Cup team-mates Colin Montgomerie, whose 74 left him on six over, and Paul Casey who had a six-over 78 to finish on 10 over. American Hunter Mahon hit the first-ever albatross in Players' Championship history when he holed out with a five-iron from 227 yards for a two at the par-five 11th. Mickelson leads as Woods labours 10 May 07 | Golf Woods expects Sawgrass challenge 09 May 07 | Golf Woods battles to Wachovia victory 06 May 07 | Golf Ames charges to Sawgrass victory 26 Mar 06 | Golf Golf on the BBC Latest golf discussions on 606 The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites BBC PRODUCTS AND SERVICES Daily and weekly e-mails Back to top ^^ Privacy & Cookies Policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/world/africa/6646217.stm	BBC NEWS | World | Africa | Africa air staff 'being poached' Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 11:57 GMT 12:57 UK E-mail this to a friend Africa air staff 'being poached' The Kenya Airways plane came down in dense mangrove swamps Middle Eastern and Asian companies lure away pilots, engineers and cabin crew trained in Africa, the head of the African Airlines Association has said. Christian Folly-Kossi told a two-day aviation conference that more needs to be done to stop Africa's aviation experts from being poached. He also called for increased security after a recent air crash in Cameroon. It remains unclear why a Kenya Airways Boeing 737 crashed into swampland, killing all 114 people on board. The plane went down shortly after take-off from Douala International Airport last week. Speaking in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, Mr Folly-Kossi said the "brain drain" was a serious problem for Africa's aviation industry. "African officials responsible for aviation must use their political and diplomatic power to stop the poaching, which threatens African airlines," the Reuters news agency reported him as saying. Meanwhile, the BBC's Randy Joe Sa'ah, in Cameroon, says there is growing anger about the slow recovery process among the families of the 114 crash victims. They say they are not being allowed access either to the crash site near Douala or to the morgue where the bodies are being stored. The chief executive of Kenya Airways, Titus Naikuni, has denied reports that the cockpit voice recorder had been found. He told a press conference broadcast on KBC TV that rescue efforts were still continuing, but heavy rains were hampering recovery efforts. E-mail this to a friend Questions raised by Cameroon crash 09 May 07 | Africa Flying in the face of adversity 18 Dec 06 | Africa Cameroon villagers hunt for bodies 07 May 07 | Africa Grief and confusion in Kenya 07 May 07 | Africa In pictures: Cameroon crash scene 07 May 07 | In Pictures Cameroon air crash site located 06 May 07 | Africa Kenya plane 'crashes in Cameroon' 05 May 07 | Africa 05 May 07 | Europe The African Airlines Association The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Guinea's defence minister sacked Zimbabwe to chair major UN body Africa air staff 'being poached' MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW A pygmy conference in the rainforest Underground search for 'God particle' Google searches web's dark side Zimbabwe to chair major UN body Hero's return for Knox-Johnston Most popular now, in detail New plea on Madeleine's birthday Thatcher unveils Falklands arch Woman destroyed her unborn baby Coalition troops missing in Iraq Eurovision's other 'Terry Wogans' Most popular now, in detail Estonia's statue row: Hand of Moscow or sure vote-winner? Pygmies hold a conference in Congo's tropical rainforest We meet Eurovision commentators from around the continent Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/world/africa/6646217.stm	BBC NEWS | World | Africa | Africa air staff 'being poached' Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 11:57 GMT 12:57 UK E-mail this to a friend Africa air staff 'being poached' The Kenya Airways plane came down in dense mangrove swamps Middle Eastern and Asian companies lure away pilots, engineers and cabin crew trained in Africa, the head of the African Airlines Association has said. Christian Folly-Kossi told a two-day aviation conference that more needs to be done to stop Africa's aviation experts from being poached. He also called for increased security after a recent air crash in Cameroon. It remains unclear why a Kenya Airways Boeing 737 crashed into swampland, killing all 114 people on board. The plane went down shortly after take-off from Douala International Airport last week. Speaking in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, Mr Folly-Kossi said the "brain drain" was a serious problem for Africa's aviation industry. "African officials responsible for aviation must use their political and diplomatic power to stop the poaching, which threatens African airlines," the Reuters news agency reported him as saying. Meanwhile, the BBC's Randy Joe Sa'ah, in Cameroon, says there is growing anger about the slow recovery process among the families of the 114 crash victims. They say they are not being allowed access either to the crash site near Douala or to the morgue where the bodies are being stored. The chief executive of Kenya Airways, Titus Naikuni, has denied reports that the cockpit voice recorder had been found. He told a press conference broadcast on KBC TV that rescue efforts were still continuing, but heavy rains were hampering recovery efforts. E-mail this to a friend Questions raised by Cameroon crash 09 May 07 | Africa Flying in the face of adversity 18 Dec 06 | Africa Cameroon villagers hunt for bodies 07 May 07 | Africa Grief and confusion in Kenya 07 May 07 | Africa In pictures: Cameroon crash scene 07 May 07 | In Pictures Cameroon air crash site located 06 May 07 | Africa Kenya plane 'crashes in Cameroon' 05 May 07 | Africa 05 May 07 | Europe The African Airlines Association The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Guinea's defence minister sacked Zimbabwe to chair major UN body Africa air staff 'being poached' MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW A pygmy conference in the rainforest Underground search for 'God particle' Google searches web's dark side Zimbabwe to chair major UN body Hero's return for Knox-Johnston Most popular now, in detail New plea on Madeleine's birthday Thatcher unveils Falklands arch Woman destroyed her unborn baby Coalition troops missing in Iraq Eurovision's other 'Terry Wogans' Most popular now, in detail Estonia's statue row: Hand of Moscow or sure vote-winner? Pygmies hold a conference in Congo's tropical rainforest We meet Eurovision commentators from around the continent Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/south_asia/6647005.stm	BBC NEWS | World | South Asia | US admits Afghan civilians killed Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 16:44 GMT 17:44 UK E-mail this to a friend US admits Afghan civilians killed US forces said they called in air support US-led forces have admitted civilians were killed in fighting with Taleban insurgents this week in the southern Afghan province of Helmand. Local officials say at least 21 people died when US-led forces called in air strikes against militants near Sangin. In turn, a local elder ordered the killing of a Taleban commander for ambushing the US-led ground forces and triggering the air strikes. The fighting, near the town of Sangin, has been continuing. One child, who was evacuated to a Coalition medical treatment facility nearby, later died of wounds "There are confirmed reports of civilian casualties; however, it is unknown... how many," a statement from US-led coalition troops said. It said up to 20 wounded villagers had been treated by coalition forces. It is the third time in recent months that US special forces, who operate outside Nato remit, have been accused of causing significant civilian casualties. Public discontent in Afghanistan is growing over the rising number of civilian casualties and the government's failure to improve the lives of most Afghans. The US military say they called in air strikes on Tuesday night after US special forces and Afghan troops came under mortar, rocket and small arms fire while on patrol 25km (15 miles) north of Sangin. Senate urges Taleban talks Civilian deaths 'shame' US The aircraft destroyed "three enemy command and control compounds", spokesmen said on Wednesday. They said troops had killed a "significant" number of militants. Locals said villages had been hit, and children and women were among the dead. One villager quoted by Reuters news agency denied Taleban fighters had used them as "human shields". However, in the aftermath of the battle, a Taleban commander, Haji Wali Mohammad, was killed at the orders of a local elder who criticised his men for using local people's homes to fight from. The elder said that by ambushing the Americans, the Taleban had brought the bombs to the villages. The elder was then killed in retaliation by other Taleban fighters, according to reports from local people. There are more than 11,000 US troops in Afghanistan outside of the Nato mandate who are involved in counter terrorism and training the Afghan security forces. The US-led coalition statement on Friday said a joint inquiry into the incident was being conducted with the Afghan army. It said a wounded child had died after being evacuated by the coalition for treatment. Foreign forces and Afghan troops are trying to drive militants from the lawless, opium-producing region of Sangin. The rising number of civilian casualties there and elsewhere in the country is putting President Hamid Karzai under increasing pressure. On Tuesday, the Afghan Senate urged him to open direct talks with local Taleban militants, and for attacks on them to stop. Earlier that day, the US military had said it was "deeply ashamed" over the killings of 19 Afghan civilians by US Marines in early March. Correspondents say that casualties in remote battle sites in Afghanistan are almost impossible to verify. Taleban fighters are often accused of seeking shelter in peoples' homes, leading to civilian casualties, and it is often difficult to determine if people killed in such air strikes were militants or civilians. E-mail this to a friend President Karzai's Afghanistan still faces daunting challenges, writes Lyse Doucet. Herat: A city reborn In pictures: Ordinary lives Pain of suicide women In graphics: Harsh realities Who are the militants? Travelling with the Taleban Views on foreign troops Should Nato boost presence? One Day in Afghanistan The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites TOP SOUTH ASIA STORIES Violent clashes hit Pakistan city Uttar Pradesh low caste landslide US admits Afghan civilians killed MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW A pygmy conference in the rainforest Underground search for 'God particle' Google searches web's dark side Zimbabwe to chair major UN body Hero's return for Knox-Johnston Most popular now, in detail New plea on Madeleine's birthday Thatcher unveils Falklands arch Woman destroyed her unborn baby Coalition troops missing in Iraq Eurovision's other 'Terry Wogans' Most popular now, in detail Estonia's statue row: Hand of Moscow or sure vote-winner? Pygmies hold a conference in Congo's tropical rainforest We meet Eurovision commentators from around the continent Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/south_asia/6647005.stm	BBC NEWS | World | South Asia | US admits Afghan civilians killed Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 16:44 GMT 17:44 UK E-mail this to a friend US admits Afghan civilians killed US forces said they called in air support US-led forces have admitted civilians were killed in fighting with Taleban insurgents this week in the southern Afghan province of Helmand. Local officials say at least 21 people died when US-led forces called in air strikes against militants near Sangin. In turn, a local elder ordered the killing of a Taleban commander for ambushing the US-led ground forces and triggering the air strikes. The fighting, near the town of Sangin, has been continuing. One child, who was evacuated to a Coalition medical treatment facility nearby, later died of wounds "There are confirmed reports of civilian casualties; however, it is unknown... how many," a statement from US-led coalition troops said. It said up to 20 wounded villagers had been treated by coalition forces. It is the third time in recent months that US special forces, who operate outside Nato remit, have been accused of causing significant civilian casualties. Public discontent in Afghanistan is growing over the rising number of civilian casualties and the government's failure to improve the lives of most Afghans. The US military say they called in air strikes on Tuesday night after US special forces and Afghan troops came under mortar, rocket and small arms fire while on patrol 25km (15 miles) north of Sangin. Senate urges Taleban talks Civilian deaths 'shame' US The aircraft destroyed "three enemy command and control compounds", spokesmen said on Wednesday. They said troops had killed a "significant" number of militants. Locals said villages had been hit, and children and women were among the dead. One villager quoted by Reuters news agency denied Taleban fighters had used them as "human shields". However, in the aftermath of the battle, a Taleban commander, Haji Wali Mohammad, was killed at the orders of a local elder who criticised his men for using local people's homes to fight from. The elder said that by ambushing the Americans, the Taleban had brought the bombs to the villages. The elder was then killed in retaliation by other Taleban fighters, according to reports from local people. There are more than 11,000 US troops in Afghanistan outside of the Nato mandate who are involved in counter terrorism and training the Afghan security forces. The US-led coalition statement on Friday said a joint inquiry into the incident was being conducted with the Afghan army. It said a wounded child had died after being evacuated by the coalition for treatment. Foreign forces and Afghan troops are trying to drive militants from the lawless, opium-producing region of Sangin. The rising number of civilian casualties there and elsewhere in the country is putting President Hamid Karzai under increasing pressure. On Tuesday, the Afghan Senate urged him to open direct talks with local Taleban militants, and for attacks on them to stop. Earlier that day, the US military had said it was "deeply ashamed" over the killings of 19 Afghan civilians by US Marines in early March. Correspondents say that casualties in remote battle sites in Afghanistan are almost impossible to verify. Taleban fighters are often accused of seeking shelter in peoples' homes, leading to civilian casualties, and it is often difficult to determine if people killed in such air strikes were militants or civilians. E-mail this to a friend President Karzai's Afghanistan still faces daunting challenges, writes Lyse Doucet. Herat: A city reborn In pictures: Ordinary lives Pain of suicide women In graphics: Harsh realities Who are the militants? Travelling with the Taleban Views on foreign troops Should Nato boost presence? One Day in Afghanistan The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites TOP SOUTH ASIA STORIES Violent clashes hit Pakistan city Uttar Pradesh low caste landslide US admits Afghan civilians killed MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW A pygmy conference in the rainforest Underground search for 'God particle' Google searches web's dark side Zimbabwe to chair major UN body Hero's return for Knox-Johnston Most popular now, in detail New plea on Madeleine's birthday Thatcher unveils Falklands arch Woman destroyed her unborn baby Coalition troops missing in Iraq Eurovision's other 'Terry Wogans' Most popular now, in detail Estonia's statue row: Hand of Moscow or sure vote-winner? Pygmies hold a conference in Congo's tropical rainforest We meet Eurovision commentators from around the continent Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/europe/6649083.stm	BBC NEWS | World | Europe | Iceland votes in tight elections Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Saturday, 12 May 2007, 12:35 GMT 13:35 UK E-mail this to a friend Iceland votes in tight elections Voters in Iceland are going to the polls, in what observers say could be the closest general election in years. The conservative Independence Party of Prime Minister Geir Haarde looks set to remain the biggest in parliament. But his coalition partner - which supports the interests of major industry - is expected to lose seats. Voters are concerned about the impact on the environment of plans to expand aluminium smelting. This could open the door to a new centre-left coalition. Centre-left parties have called for a moratorium on aluminium smelter development. The partnership between Mr Haarde's Independence Party and the Progress Party want aluminium giants to keep building smelters. The main opposition parties - the Left Green and Social Democrats - are calling for a moratorium on development until the environmental and economic impact of the latest projects is clear. The BBC's Nordic correspondent, Julian Isherwood, says that there is little doubt that Mr Haarde's conservative Independence Party will remain the largest party in parliament. All of the polls suggest a vote of some 35% for the party that has kept the Icelandic economy strong and improving, our correspondent says. But in Iceland that does not mean he will remain in power, he adds. Icelandic politics, as in the rest of the Nordic region, is based on coalition building and Mr Haarde's current coalition partner, the Progress Party has continuously dropped in voter sympathies. If the opinion polls prove correct and the government does not win a clear majority, that would mean a lengthy period of government negotiations with the possibility of a centre-left government emerging to include the Social Democrats. E-mail this to a friend 03 May 07 | Country profiles The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Russia clinches gas pipeline deal Pro-family groups call Rome rally Iceland votes in tight elections MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW A pygmy conference in the rainforest Underground search for 'God particle' Google searches web's dark side Zimbabwe to chair major UN body Hero's return for Knox-Johnston Most popular now, in detail New plea on Madeleine's birthday Thatcher unveils Falklands arch Woman destroyed her unborn baby Coalition troops missing in Iraq Eurovision's other 'Terry Wogans' Most popular now, in detail Estonia's statue row: Hand of Moscow or sure vote-winner? Pygmies hold a conference in Congo's tropical rainforest We meet Eurovision commentators from around the continent Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/europe/6649083.stm	BBC NEWS | World | Europe | Iceland votes in tight elections Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Saturday, 12 May 2007, 12:35 GMT 13:35 UK E-mail this to a friend Iceland votes in tight elections Voters in Iceland are going to the polls, in what observers say could be the closest general election in years. The conservative Independence Party of Prime Minister Geir Haarde looks set to remain the biggest in parliament. But his coalition partner - which supports the interests of major industry - is expected to lose seats. Voters are concerned about the impact on the environment of plans to expand aluminium smelting. This could open the door to a new centre-left coalition. Centre-left parties have called for a moratorium on aluminium smelter development. The partnership between Mr Haarde's Independence Party and the Progress Party want aluminium giants to keep building smelters. The main opposition parties - the Left Green and Social Democrats - are calling for a moratorium on development until the environmental and economic impact of the latest projects is clear. The BBC's Nordic correspondent, Julian Isherwood, says that there is little doubt that Mr Haarde's conservative Independence Party will remain the largest party in parliament. All of the polls suggest a vote of some 35% for the party that has kept the Icelandic economy strong and improving, our correspondent says. But in Iceland that does not mean he will remain in power, he adds. Icelandic politics, as in the rest of the Nordic region, is based on coalition building and Mr Haarde's current coalition partner, the Progress Party has continuously dropped in voter sympathies. If the opinion polls prove correct and the government does not win a clear majority, that would mean a lengthy period of government negotiations with the possibility of a centre-left government emerging to include the Social Democrats. E-mail this to a friend 03 May 07 | Country profiles The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Russia clinches gas pipeline deal Pro-family groups call Rome rally Iceland votes in tight elections MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW A pygmy conference in the rainforest Underground search for 'God particle' Google searches web's dark side Zimbabwe to chair major UN body Hero's return for Knox-Johnston Most popular now, in detail New plea on Madeleine's birthday Thatcher unveils Falklands arch Woman destroyed her unborn baby Coalition troops missing in Iraq Eurovision's other 'Terry Wogans' Most popular now, in detail Estonia's statue row: Hand of Moscow or sure vote-winner? Pygmies hold a conference in Congo's tropical rainforest We meet Eurovision commentators from around the continent Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/programmes/from_our_own_correspondent/6639233.stm	BBC NEWS | Programmes | From Our Own Correspondent | Blair passes on his African vision Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Thursday, 10 May 2007, 11:07 GMT 12:07 UK E-mail this to a friend Blair passes on his African vision One of Tony Blair's biggest concerns has been the plight of Africa which he once famously described as a scar on the conscience of the world. The Africa Commission Report set out ideas for combating poverty There is a large yellow book on the top shelf of my bookcase. It is more than 450 pages in length, and I dip into it from time to time, whenever I need facts and information about Africa. It is the report that was drawn up by Tony Blair's Commission for Africa, two years ago. On the back cover, there is a photograph of the 17 commissioners - Tony Blair is in the middle of the front row. On his right-hand side, he is flanked by Gordon Brown and Bob Geldof. The Africa Commission was full of promise. The report starts with these words: "African poverty and stagnation is the greatest tragedy of our time. Poverty on such a scale demands a forceful response." Mr Blair, and those appointed to help him, wanted new ideas and action for a strong and prosperous Africa. And so, during the course of 2004 and 2005, the prime minister set about the task of trying to galvanise the rest of the world. Appropriately, the process began in Addis Ababa - the continent's diplomatic capital - where Emperor Haile Selassie and some of Africa's founding fathers created the Organisation of African Unity, back in 1963. Mr Blair spent time with villagers in Debre Zeit near Addis Ababa Mr Blair arrived there on a soaking wet October day, two and a half years ago, and was immediately taken by road to see a small project supporting orphaned children at Debre Zeit - an hour's drive from Addis. He was invited to sit on the grass in a field, encircled by the children who had come to entertain him with a traditional Ethiopian song. This was the prime minister rolling up his sleeves and getting a rare chance to find out what life is like in Africa's most deprived communities. He met an HIV-positive mother, who had been facing near-certain death. But the woman told Mr Blair how she had been given help, was now running a business and supporting her family. This, said Mr Blair, was what Africans needed - not just a hand-out of aid, but a helping hand to allow them to help themselves. The Blair visit to Ethiopia was all too brief. I wished he could have seen so much more - for this is a nation that epitomises so many of Africa's problems: extreme poverty, rapid population growth, abuses of human rights... And of course, Ethiopia - with its dramatic landscape - is a country that lies in a rough neighbourhood - the conflict-prone Horn of Africa. It was Bob Geldof who helped to put Ethiopia on the map two decades ago. In some Ethiopian villages time appears to have stood still So much has changed since the war-driven famine of 1984, but some things remain the same. And so, if he had stayed longer, I would have wanted Tony Blair to have taken the road that leads up the slopes of Entoto Mountain on the northern side of Addis Ababa. Here, the 4x4s and the battered old Addis taxis jostle for space with herds of goats and donkeys. But what you also see are women and young girls hunched over as they carry back-breaking loads of firewood from the eucalyptus trees on the mountainside. On foot, it is a long and arduous trek down into the city. And it is a medieval image - completely at odds with Tony Blair's vision of a modern, reformed Africa. It always serves as a reminder to me that it is going to take more than a few promises from the leaders of the Group of Eight industrialised nations to change the way of life here. I have never doubted Tony Blair's sincerity and commitment to Africa, but there is no question that he took on a gargantuan task when he sought to forge a new partnership between Africa and the developed world. Africa is full of surprises that can always throw a spanner or two in the works. The gap between Blair and Meles indicated a strained relationship The last time I saw the prime minister in this part of the world was at what was described as "a progressive governance summit", a small meeting of like-minded centre-left leaders who had gathered at an incongruous location - a small South African game park, north of Pretoria. At the news conference afterwards, Tony Blair was joined by - among others - the presidents of South Africa and Brazil. But Mr Blair had the misfortune - at the time - to find himself sitting next to Ethiopian Prime Minister Meles Zenawi, his erstwhile friend and member of the Commission for Africa. Only, Prime Minister Meles had - during 2005 - locked up members of the Ethiopian opposition after unrest following disputed elections. Another blow perhaps, to the "African Renaissance"? The body language between Blair and Meles, and the rather noticeable gap between their chairs at the news conference seemed to reveal a strained relationship. So now - in all likelihood - it is Gordon Brown who will take on some of the responsibility of keeping Africa on the world agenda. He has already done his fair share of cajoling at international finance ministers' meetings. And he has had some hands-on experience of the challenges in Kenya, Tanzania and Mozambique. But he may want to consider the words of one activist I spoke to this week, who said: "The battle against poverty is a marathon, not a sprint." From Our Own Correspondent was broadcast on Thursday, 9 May, 2007 at 1100 GMT on BBC Radio 4. Please check the for World Service transmission times. E-mail this to a friend THE BLAIR YEARS 1997-2007 From rebellious schoolboy to global statesman Blair will stand down on 27 June Key quotes from the Blair speech In quotes: Global reaction Prescott quits as deputy leader Deputy contenders claim support Q&A: Blair's exit plans How will history judge Blair? Three expert views on the PM's legacy The message in Blair's speech Being the prime minister's wife Blair years in statistics Robinson's verdict on Blair Highs and lows of the Blair era Blair's Cabinet of '97 Timeline: The Blair Years Blair: In his own words How others portrayed Blair How will he be remembered? The day I met Tony Blair England reacts to PM's departure What next for Blair? In his own words Decade at the top MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW A pygmy conference in the rainforest Underground search for 'God particle' Google searches web's dark side Zimbabwe to chair major UN body Hero's return for Knox-Johnston Most popular now, in detail New plea on Madeleine's birthday Thatcher unveils Falklands arch Woman destroyed her unborn baby Coalition troops missing in Iraq Eurovision's other 'Terry Wogans' Most popular now, in detail Estonia's statue row: Hand of Moscow or sure vote-winner? Pygmies hold a conference in Congo's tropical rainforest We meet Eurovision commentators from around the continent
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/programmes/from_our_own_correspondent/6639233.stm	BBC NEWS | Programmes | From Our Own Correspondent | Blair passes on his African vision Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Thursday, 10 May 2007, 11:07 GMT 12:07 UK E-mail this to a friend Blair passes on his African vision One of Tony Blair's biggest concerns has been the plight of Africa which he once famously described as a scar on the conscience of the world. The Africa Commission Report set out ideas for combating poverty There is a large yellow book on the top shelf of my bookcase. It is more than 450 pages in length, and I dip into it from time to time, whenever I need facts and information about Africa. It is the report that was drawn up by Tony Blair's Commission for Africa, two years ago. On the back cover, there is a photograph of the 17 commissioners - Tony Blair is in the middle of the front row. On his right-hand side, he is flanked by Gordon Brown and Bob Geldof. The Africa Commission was full of promise. The report starts with these words: "African poverty and stagnation is the greatest tragedy of our time. Poverty on such a scale demands a forceful response." Mr Blair, and those appointed to help him, wanted new ideas and action for a strong and prosperous Africa. And so, during the course of 2004 and 2005, the prime minister set about the task of trying to galvanise the rest of the world. Appropriately, the process began in Addis Ababa - the continent's diplomatic capital - where Emperor Haile Selassie and some of Africa's founding fathers created the Organisation of African Unity, back in 1963. Mr Blair spent time with villagers in Debre Zeit near Addis Ababa Mr Blair arrived there on a soaking wet October day, two and a half years ago, and was immediately taken by road to see a small project supporting orphaned children at Debre Zeit - an hour's drive from Addis. He was invited to sit on the grass in a field, encircled by the children who had come to entertain him with a traditional Ethiopian song. This was the prime minister rolling up his sleeves and getting a rare chance to find out what life is like in Africa's most deprived communities. He met an HIV-positive mother, who had been facing near-certain death. But the woman told Mr Blair how she had been given help, was now running a business and supporting her family. This, said Mr Blair, was what Africans needed - not just a hand-out of aid, but a helping hand to allow them to help themselves. The Blair visit to Ethiopia was all too brief. I wished he could have seen so much more - for this is a nation that epitomises so many of Africa's problems: extreme poverty, rapid population growth, abuses of human rights... And of course, Ethiopia - with its dramatic landscape - is a country that lies in a rough neighbourhood - the conflict-prone Horn of Africa. It was Bob Geldof who helped to put Ethiopia on the map two decades ago. In some Ethiopian villages time appears to have stood still So much has changed since the war-driven famine of 1984, but some things remain the same. And so, if he had stayed longer, I would have wanted Tony Blair to have taken the road that leads up the slopes of Entoto Mountain on the northern side of Addis Ababa. Here, the 4x4s and the battered old Addis taxis jostle for space with herds of goats and donkeys. But what you also see are women and young girls hunched over as they carry back-breaking loads of firewood from the eucalyptus trees on the mountainside. On foot, it is a long and arduous trek down into the city. And it is a medieval image - completely at odds with Tony Blair's vision of a modern, reformed Africa. It always serves as a reminder to me that it is going to take more than a few promises from the leaders of the Group of Eight industrialised nations to change the way of life here. I have never doubted Tony Blair's sincerity and commitment to Africa, but there is no question that he took on a gargantuan task when he sought to forge a new partnership between Africa and the developed world. Africa is full of surprises that can always throw a spanner or two in the works. The gap between Blair and Meles indicated a strained relationship The last time I saw the prime minister in this part of the world was at what was described as "a progressive governance summit", a small meeting of like-minded centre-left leaders who had gathered at an incongruous location - a small South African game park, north of Pretoria. At the news conference afterwards, Tony Blair was joined by - among others - the presidents of South Africa and Brazil. But Mr Blair had the misfortune - at the time - to find himself sitting next to Ethiopian Prime Minister Meles Zenawi, his erstwhile friend and member of the Commission for Africa. Only, Prime Minister Meles had - during 2005 - locked up members of the Ethiopian opposition after unrest following disputed elections. Another blow perhaps, to the "African Renaissance"? The body language between Blair and Meles, and the rather noticeable gap between their chairs at the news conference seemed to reveal a strained relationship. So now - in all likelihood - it is Gordon Brown who will take on some of the responsibility of keeping Africa on the world agenda. He has already done his fair share of cajoling at international finance ministers' meetings. And he has had some hands-on experience of the challenges in Kenya, Tanzania and Mozambique. But he may want to consider the words of one activist I spoke to this week, who said: "The battle against poverty is a marathon, not a sprint." From Our Own Correspondent was broadcast on Thursday, 9 May, 2007 at 1100 GMT on BBC Radio 4. Please check the for World Service transmission times. E-mail this to a friend THE BLAIR YEARS 1997-2007 From rebellious schoolboy to global statesman Blair will stand down on 27 June Key quotes from the Blair speech In quotes: Global reaction Prescott quits as deputy leader Deputy contenders claim support Q&A: Blair's exit plans How will history judge Blair? Three expert views on the PM's legacy The message in Blair's speech Being the prime minister's wife Blair years in statistics Robinson's verdict on Blair Highs and lows of the Blair era Blair's Cabinet of '97 Timeline: The Blair Years Blair: In his own words How others portrayed Blair How will he be remembered? The day I met Tony Blair England reacts to PM's departure What next for Blair? In his own words Decade at the top MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW A pygmy conference in the rainforest Underground search for 'God particle' Google searches web's dark side Zimbabwe to chair major UN body Hero's return for Knox-Johnston Most popular now, in detail New plea on Madeleine's birthday Thatcher unveils Falklands arch Woman destroyed her unborn baby Coalition troops missing in Iraq Eurovision's other 'Terry Wogans' Most popular now, in detail Estonia's statue row: Hand of Moscow or sure vote-winner? Pygmies hold a conference in Congo's tropical rainforest We meet Eurovision commentators from around the continent
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/world/asia-pacific/6646297.stm	BBC NEWS | World | Asia-Pacific | 'New proof' of Japan sex slaves Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 13:00 GMT 14:00 UK E-mail this to a friend 'New proof' of Japan sex slaves About 200,000 women worked as Japanese sex slaves in WWII Reports from Japan say documents have been found that suggest the Japanese authorities forced women to work as sex slaves during World War II. They come from the Dutch government archives and include the testimony of a 27-year-old Dutch woman from May 1946. The Kyodo news agency says the documents show women were coerced into prostitution in occupied Indonesia. PM Shinzo Abe had claimed there was no evidence of Japanese officials forcing women into prostitution. The documents are reported to have been found by a Japanese journalist investigating Japan's wartime crimes in Asia. The Dutch woman's testimony says she had her clothes ripped off her by Japanese military police. She says she was taken to a brothel and forced to work as a prostitute, despite her efforts to resist. That testimony, it is claimed, was submitted to the Tokyo War Crimes Tribunal as evidence of forced mass prostitution in Magelang, in what is now Central Java, in 1944. Other documents are said to include further allegations that the Japanese forced women into prostitution. Earlier this year Prime Minister Abe said that investigations had failed to find any documentary evidence that the Japanese authorities in wartime had issued orders to soldiers to coerce women into sex slavery. He said though that he stood by a Japanese government apology to the women, known in Japan as "comfort women". The journalist who found these documents says they contradict the prime minister's denial that the authorities were directly involved in coercion. The Japanese Foreign Ministry says it is aware of his claims but has not seen the documents so cannot comment on what they might contain. It says the Japanese government has investigated its wartime activities in Indonesia thoroughly and acknowledges and apologises for the country's wartime use of sex slaves. E-mail this to a friend Abe explains sex slave comments 27 Apr 07 | Asia-Pacific Japan's Abe heads to Washington 26 Apr 07 | Asia-Pacific Japan PM apology on sex slaves 26 Mar 07 | Asia-Pacific Viewpoints: Abe sex slave row 21 Mar 07 | Asia-Pacific Japan anger at US sex slave bill 19 Feb 07 | Asia-Pacific 26 Sep 06 | Asia-Pacific The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Taiwanese prime minister resigns Russia clinches gas pipeline deal Birds 'starve' at S Korea wetland MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW A pygmy conference in the rainforest Underground search for 'God particle' Google searches web's dark side Zimbabwe to chair major UN body Hero's return for Knox-Johnston Most popular now, in detail New plea on Madeleine's birthday Thatcher unveils Falklands arch Woman destroyed her unborn baby Coalition troops missing in Iraq Eurovision's other 'Terry Wogans' Most popular now, in detail Estonia's statue row: Hand of Moscow or sure vote-winner? Pygmies hold a conference in Congo's tropical rainforest We meet Eurovision commentators from around the continent Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/world/asia-pacific/6646297.stm	BBC NEWS | World | Asia-Pacific | 'New proof' of Japan sex slaves Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 13:00 GMT 14:00 UK E-mail this to a friend 'New proof' of Japan sex slaves About 200,000 women worked as Japanese sex slaves in WWII Reports from Japan say documents have been found that suggest the Japanese authorities forced women to work as sex slaves during World War II. They come from the Dutch government archives and include the testimony of a 27-year-old Dutch woman from May 1946. The Kyodo news agency says the documents show women were coerced into prostitution in occupied Indonesia. PM Shinzo Abe had claimed there was no evidence of Japanese officials forcing women into prostitution. The documents are reported to have been found by a Japanese journalist investigating Japan's wartime crimes in Asia. The Dutch woman's testimony says she had her clothes ripped off her by Japanese military police. She says she was taken to a brothel and forced to work as a prostitute, despite her efforts to resist. That testimony, it is claimed, was submitted to the Tokyo War Crimes Tribunal as evidence of forced mass prostitution in Magelang, in what is now Central Java, in 1944. Other documents are said to include further allegations that the Japanese forced women into prostitution. Earlier this year Prime Minister Abe said that investigations had failed to find any documentary evidence that the Japanese authorities in wartime had issued orders to soldiers to coerce women into sex slavery. He said though that he stood by a Japanese government apology to the women, known in Japan as "comfort women". The journalist who found these documents says they contradict the prime minister's denial that the authorities were directly involved in coercion. The Japanese Foreign Ministry says it is aware of his claims but has not seen the documents so cannot comment on what they might contain. It says the Japanese government has investigated its wartime activities in Indonesia thoroughly and acknowledges and apologises for the country's wartime use of sex slaves. E-mail this to a friend Abe explains sex slave comments 27 Apr 07 | Asia-Pacific Japan's Abe heads to Washington 26 Apr 07 | Asia-Pacific Japan PM apology on sex slaves 26 Mar 07 | Asia-Pacific Viewpoints: Abe sex slave row 21 Mar 07 | Asia-Pacific Japan anger at US sex slave bill 19 Feb 07 | Asia-Pacific 26 Sep 06 | Asia-Pacific The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Taiwanese prime minister resigns Russia clinches gas pipeline deal Birds 'starve' at S Korea wetland MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW A pygmy conference in the rainforest Underground search for 'God particle' Google searches web's dark side Zimbabwe to chair major UN body Hero's return for Knox-Johnston Most popular now, in detail New plea on Madeleine's birthday Thatcher unveils Falklands arch Woman destroyed her unborn baby Coalition troops missing in Iraq Eurovision's other 'Terry Wogans' Most popular now, in detail Estonia's statue row: Hand of Moscow or sure vote-winner? Pygmies hold a conference in Congo's tropical rainforest We meet Eurovision commentators from around the continent Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/sci/tech/6644697.stm	BBC NEWS | Science/Nature | Galileo firms miss key deadline Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Thursday, 10 May 2007, 22:25 GMT 23:25 UK E-mail this to a friend Galileo firms miss key deadline The Galileo spacecraft would be launched in batches The private consortium asked to run Europe's satellite navigation system, Galileo, has missed a key EU deadline for moving the project forward. The European Commission (EC) said the companies had made "insufficient progress", resulting in unacceptable delays and risks for public finances. This is likely to mean European taxpayers stepping in to cover an advance payment for construction costs. The EC is expected to present new plans to overhaul the project on 16 May. These will be sent for approval by the EU's transport ministers in June. The consortium comprises leading aerospace and telecom concerns: EADS, Thales, Inmarsat, Alcatel-Lucent, Finmeccanica, AENA, Hispasat, and TeleOp. The Commission set a 10 May deadline for them to come forward with a single company structure to run Galileo, a chief executive and common position from which to negotiate with EU representatives over the future of the project. On Thursday, the Commission announced that the target had not been met to its satisfaction. Michele Cercone, spokesman for the EC's directorate general for transport, said the Commission now intended to propose "different scenarios to put Galileo on the right track again". Galileo's planned network of 30 satellites will beam radio signals to receiving devices on the ground, helping users pinpoint their locations. The system's technologies are designed to bring greater accuracy and reliability to navigation and timing signals delivered from space. A European Commission and European Space Agency project 30 satellites to be launched in batches by end of 2011-12 Will work alongside US GPS and Russian Glonass systems Promises real-time positioning down to less than a metre Guaranteed under all but most extreme circumstances Suitable for safety-critical roles where lives depend on service Europe lofts Galileo satellite Q&A: Europe's Galileo project Galileo puts UK on map The original intention behind Galileo was that taxpayers in the EU would inject more than one billion euros (£0.7bn) into the early development of the project. The deployment phase - the launch of the satellites and the construction of ground stations - was expected to cost at least two billion more, with two-thirds of the investment being borne by the private sector. The latter was also expected to pick up all the running costs in the long term. The first demonstrator spacecraft, Giove-A, is already in orbit. A second, Giove-B, which has had some technical problems, should be in orbit by the year's end. The contract for the first four satellites proper in the final constellation was awarded at the end of 2004, but the time has now come to order the remaining 26. It should be the private concession making this spacecraft order - but with no progress on its formal establishment, it seems certain that European taxpayers will now have to shoulder a greater burden of the construction costs if Galileo is to stay on track. Mr Cercone said this option would be better for Europe's taxpayers in the long run. He likened the alternative options to the difference between leasing a car and buying one. "When you lease a car you pay less at the start, but it turns out more expensive in the end. When you buy a car for cash, you have to come up with the money sooner, but overall the car will cost less," he told a press briefing in Brussels. "If you apply this example to Galileo, it is less expensive to take on the entire construction of the infrastructure than it would be to guarantee for 100% a private loan at market value, as is the plan of the consortium." Under consortium proposals, public money would be used to guarantee the risks and debts of the project. But Mr Cercone said using public money to cover construction costs offered the best value for money and would protect taxpayers. Galileo was supposed to have started launching its 30 satellites by 2008. However, that date was postponed to 2011/12 due to previous disagreements between EU governments on how to pay for the system. E-mail this to a friend VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS Galileo versus US satellite navigation system Galileo system 'in a deep crisis' 08 May 07 | Science/Nature Galileo companies given deadline 22 Mar 07 | Science/Nature Galileo sat-nav in decisive phase 14 Mar 07 | Science/Nature Europe secures extra Galileo cash 31 Aug 06 | Science/Nature Boost to Galileo sat-nav system 25 Aug 06 | Science/Nature Europe launches Galileo satellite 28 Dec 05 | Science/Nature Navigating future for road charges 29 Dec 05 | Science/Nature European Satellite Navigation Industries Galileo Masters (UK Pages) The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Birds 'starve' at S Korea wetland Bandwidth leap for British forces Asian markets push illegal ivory MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW A pygmy conference in the rainforest Underground search for 'God particle' Google searches web's dark side Zimbabwe to chair major UN body Hero's return for Knox-Johnston Most popular now, in detail New plea on Madeleine's birthday Thatcher unveils Falklands arch Woman destroyed her unborn baby Coalition troops missing in Iraq Eurovision's other 'Terry Wogans' Most popular now, in detail Estonia's statue row: Hand of Moscow or sure vote-winner? Pygmies hold a conference in Congo's tropical rainforest We meet Eurovision commentators from around the continent Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/sci/tech/6644697.stm	BBC NEWS | Science/Nature | Galileo firms miss key deadline Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Thursday, 10 May 2007, 22:25 GMT 23:25 UK E-mail this to a friend Galileo firms miss key deadline The Galileo spacecraft would be launched in batches The private consortium asked to run Europe's satellite navigation system, Galileo, has missed a key EU deadline for moving the project forward. The European Commission (EC) said the companies had made "insufficient progress", resulting in unacceptable delays and risks for public finances. This is likely to mean European taxpayers stepping in to cover an advance payment for construction costs. The EC is expected to present new plans to overhaul the project on 16 May. These will be sent for approval by the EU's transport ministers in June. The consortium comprises leading aerospace and telecom concerns: EADS, Thales, Inmarsat, Alcatel-Lucent, Finmeccanica, AENA, Hispasat, and TeleOp. The Commission set a 10 May deadline for them to come forward with a single company structure to run Galileo, a chief executive and common position from which to negotiate with EU representatives over the future of the project. On Thursday, the Commission announced that the target had not been met to its satisfaction. Michele Cercone, spokesman for the EC's directorate general for transport, said the Commission now intended to propose "different scenarios to put Galileo on the right track again". Galileo's planned network of 30 satellites will beam radio signals to receiving devices on the ground, helping users pinpoint their locations. The system's technologies are designed to bring greater accuracy and reliability to navigation and timing signals delivered from space. A European Commission and European Space Agency project 30 satellites to be launched in batches by end of 2011-12 Will work alongside US GPS and Russian Glonass systems Promises real-time positioning down to less than a metre Guaranteed under all but most extreme circumstances Suitable for safety-critical roles where lives depend on service Europe lofts Galileo satellite Q&A: Europe's Galileo project Galileo puts UK on map The original intention behind Galileo was that taxpayers in the EU would inject more than one billion euros (£0.7bn) into the early development of the project. The deployment phase - the launch of the satellites and the construction of ground stations - was expected to cost at least two billion more, with two-thirds of the investment being borne by the private sector. The latter was also expected to pick up all the running costs in the long term. The first demonstrator spacecraft, Giove-A, is already in orbit. A second, Giove-B, which has had some technical problems, should be in orbit by the year's end. The contract for the first four satellites proper in the final constellation was awarded at the end of 2004, but the time has now come to order the remaining 26. It should be the private concession making this spacecraft order - but with no progress on its formal establishment, it seems certain that European taxpayers will now have to shoulder a greater burden of the construction costs if Galileo is to stay on track. Mr Cercone said this option would be better for Europe's taxpayers in the long run. He likened the alternative options to the difference between leasing a car and buying one. "When you lease a car you pay less at the start, but it turns out more expensive in the end. When you buy a car for cash, you have to come up with the money sooner, but overall the car will cost less," he told a press briefing in Brussels. "If you apply this example to Galileo, it is less expensive to take on the entire construction of the infrastructure than it would be to guarantee for 100% a private loan at market value, as is the plan of the consortium." Under consortium proposals, public money would be used to guarantee the risks and debts of the project. But Mr Cercone said using public money to cover construction costs offered the best value for money and would protect taxpayers. Galileo was supposed to have started launching its 30 satellites by 2008. However, that date was postponed to 2011/12 due to previous disagreements between EU governments on how to pay for the system. E-mail this to a friend VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS Galileo versus US satellite navigation system Galileo system 'in a deep crisis' 08 May 07 | Science/Nature Galileo companies given deadline 22 Mar 07 | Science/Nature Galileo sat-nav in decisive phase 14 Mar 07 | Science/Nature Europe secures extra Galileo cash 31 Aug 06 | Science/Nature Boost to Galileo sat-nav system 25 Aug 06 | Science/Nature Europe launches Galileo satellite 28 Dec 05 | Science/Nature Navigating future for road charges 29 Dec 05 | Science/Nature European Satellite Navigation Industries Galileo Masters (UK Pages) The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Birds 'starve' at S Korea wetland Bandwidth leap for British forces Asian markets push illegal ivory MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW A pygmy conference in the rainforest Underground search for 'God particle' Google searches web's dark side Zimbabwe to chair major UN body Hero's return for Knox-Johnston Most popular now, in detail New plea on Madeleine's birthday Thatcher unveils Falklands arch Woman destroyed her unborn baby Coalition troops missing in Iraq Eurovision's other 'Terry Wogans' Most popular now, in detail Estonia's statue row: Hand of Moscow or sure vote-winner? Pygmies hold a conference in Congo's tropical rainforest We meet Eurovision commentators from around the continent Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/world/americas/6648835.stm	BBC NEWS | World | Americas | Costa Rica embassy drama ends Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Saturday, 12 May 2007, 01:27 GMT 02:27 UK E-mail this to a friend Costa Rica embassy drama ends Police sealed off the embassy during the incident A hostage drama at the Russian embassy in Costa Rica's capital, San Jose, has ended peacefully with an armed man turning himself over to police. The incident lasted several hours amid conflicting reports that the man was holding several people hostage, including Russian diplomats. But later reports said he had argued with another visitor at the embassy, before taking him hostage. The armed man, aged 20, is said to be a Kyrgyz national living in Costa Rica. Local TV showed live images of police escorting the attacker - as well as the alleged hostage - from the embassy. He was later named by immigration official as Roman Bogdanyants. "It all ended without violence, without loss of life," Russian Ambassador Valery Nikolayenko was quoted as saying by Reuters news agency. "All the embassy staff are just fine," he said. The motives of the attacker remain unclear, but there were reports that he was involved in a dispute over money. During the incident, dozens of armed police had surrounded the embassy, with local media reporting that the Russian ambassador was among the hostages - a claim later that proved to be unfounded. Kidnappings and hostage-taking are rare in Costa Rica which, unlike many of its Central American neighbours, does not have a major problem with guns or drugs, the BBC's Americas editor Will Grant says. E-mail this to a friend VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS The gunman is escorted away by police Get the latest breaking news delivered to your desktop or mobile device Chilean embassy deaths mourned 29 Jul 04 | Americas Hostages taken at Chilean embassy 28 Jul 04 | Americas 13 Dec 06 | Country profiles The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Cheney warns Iran on Gulf visit Costa Rica embassy drama ends Virginia Tech students graduate MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW A pygmy conference in the rainforest Underground search for 'God particle' Google searches web's dark side Zimbabwe to chair major UN body Hero's return for Knox-Johnston Most popular now, in detail New plea on Madeleine's birthday Thatcher unveils Falklands arch Woman destroyed her unborn baby Coalition troops missing in Iraq Eurovision's other 'Terry Wogans' Most popular now, in detail Estonia's statue row: Hand of Moscow or sure vote-winner? Pygmies hold a conference in Congo's tropical rainforest We meet Eurovision commentators from around the continent Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/world/americas/6648835.stm	BBC NEWS | World | Americas | Costa Rica embassy drama ends Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Saturday, 12 May 2007, 01:27 GMT 02:27 UK E-mail this to a friend Costa Rica embassy drama ends Police sealed off the embassy during the incident A hostage drama at the Russian embassy in Costa Rica's capital, San Jose, has ended peacefully with an armed man turning himself over to police. The incident lasted several hours amid conflicting reports that the man was holding several people hostage, including Russian diplomats. But later reports said he had argued with another visitor at the embassy, before taking him hostage. The armed man, aged 20, is said to be a Kyrgyz national living in Costa Rica. Local TV showed live images of police escorting the attacker - as well as the alleged hostage - from the embassy. He was later named by immigration official as Roman Bogdanyants. "It all ended without violence, without loss of life," Russian Ambassador Valery Nikolayenko was quoted as saying by Reuters news agency. "All the embassy staff are just fine," he said. The motives of the attacker remain unclear, but there were reports that he was involved in a dispute over money. During the incident, dozens of armed police had surrounded the embassy, with local media reporting that the Russian ambassador was among the hostages - a claim later that proved to be unfounded. Kidnappings and hostage-taking are rare in Costa Rica which, unlike many of its Central American neighbours, does not have a major problem with guns or drugs, the BBC's Americas editor Will Grant says. E-mail this to a friend VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS The gunman is escorted away by police Get the latest breaking news delivered to your desktop or mobile device Chilean embassy deaths mourned 29 Jul 04 | Americas Hostages taken at Chilean embassy 28 Jul 04 | Americas 13 Dec 06 | Country profiles The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Cheney warns Iran on Gulf visit Costa Rica embassy drama ends Virginia Tech students graduate MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW A pygmy conference in the rainforest Underground search for 'God particle' Google searches web's dark side Zimbabwe to chair major UN body Hero's return for Knox-Johnston Most popular now, in detail New plea on Madeleine's birthday Thatcher unveils Falklands arch Woman destroyed her unborn baby Coalition troops missing in Iraq Eurovision's other 'Terry Wogans' Most popular now, in detail Estonia's statue row: Hand of Moscow or sure vote-winner? Pygmies hold a conference in Congo's tropical rainforest We meet Eurovision commentators from around the continent Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/programmes/from_our_own_correspondent/6639385.stm	BBC NEWS | Programmes | From Our Own Correspondent | A letter from Iraq to Tony Blair Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Thursday, 10 May 2007, 13:59 GMT 14:59 UK E-mail this to a friend A letter from Iraq to Tony Blair One issue threatens to overshadow Tony Blair's legacy, affecting his image and standing at home and abroad, the decision to go to war in Iraq. Even at the time of Saddam's fall, people were wary of the future I have never written to a politician in my life. But I very nearly made an exception for Tony Blair. It was towards the end of 2002, when it was already clear that the invasion of Iraq was only a matter of time. I found myself deeply torn. I had no illusions about the nature of Saddam Hussein. I had followed his brutal antics for years. I had been to his Iraq, and felt the all-pervasive fear instilled by his vigilant and ruthless police state. What a relief it was to get on the plane and feel that oppressive weight lifted off your shoulders, an experience that most Iraqis were denied. But when Saddam's excesses were at their worst, during the war with Iran in the 1980s, he was actually being discreetly supported by the Americans. Washington was turning a blind eye to human rights reports from its own State Department detailing how Iraqi children were being tortured in front of their parents to get them to confess or inform. In 1988, when the Iraqi air force dropped chemical bombs which killed thousands of Kurds at Halabja, I remember phoning the Pentagon, and being told: "We think it was the Iranians who did it." So on a personal level, I would be glad to see the end of Saddam Hussein and his harsh dictatorship. It was clear, long before it happened, that this was going to be a terrible mess. It had to be But the impending invasion was clearly not about to happen because he was a bad man. It might be the right thing, but it was being done for the wrong reasons - reasons that had more to do with the global ambitions of the ascendant neo-conservatives in Washington, and their desire to engineer a New Order in the Middle East. The chosen pretexts for the war - Saddam's alleged weapons of mass destruction and links with international terror - turned out to be simply invalid. I have often thought, over these past four years, of that regular cartoon slot in the satirical magazine Private Eye, entitled "Things We Seldom See". It features situations which would be blindingly logical, but just never happen. I wanted to propose one where President Bush addresses Saddam Hussein and says: "Mr Hussein, you were right. There were no weapons of mass destruction, and no links with terrorism. We'd like to apologise, and give you your country back." Apart from misgivings about Washington's real motives and objectives, it was clear, long before it happened, that this was going to be a terrible mess. It had to be. Iraq is a patchwork country, an ethnic and confessional cocktail, of Arabs and Kurds, Turkomans and Chaldaeans, Sunnis and Shiites. Iraq has been plagued with civil unrest and violence Such countries are usually held together by a strong centralised dictatorship, which could be benign or tyrannical. As soon as you admit the concept of democracy and take the lid off, it is bound to be difficult and chaotic in the best of conditions, in a place with no democratic traditions or culture. To blow the regime and all its control mechanisms away virtually overnight, through the massive use of force by people from halfway around the world, would inevitably plunge the country and the region into a long period of chaos, whatever exact form it would take. That is why I lay sleepless in my bed in Tehran, mentally composing that letter to Tony Blair that I never wrote. I was going to tell him, on the basis of three decades living and working in the region, that he was on the brink of a massive historical blunder. I never sent it, because I knew of course that it would not make a blind bit of difference, apart from perhaps salving my own conscience, and allowing me to say: "I told you so" - something that would bring no satisfaction at all. And so, four years on, look at what a terrible mess Mr Blair can now say goodbye to, and hand on to Gordon Brown. Where there used to be tight state control, there is massive terrorism on a daily basis. The Americans have been bombing Baghdad again, to quell Sunni militants and Shiite militias. At the end of the day, the British are minor players, politically important partners brought in on the coat-tails of the Americans They are building walls to separate districts, euphemistically calling them "gated communities". Millions of Iraqis have fled the country. In the south, British troops are trying to stifle Shiite militias which know they only have to wait, because the British will be gone before long. A transition of leadership in London is not going to make much difference on the ground in Iraq. Gordon Brown will be locked into a situation which he might or might not have chosen to get into in the first place, but will now be stuck with, and his options will be limited. At the end of the day, the British are minor players, politically important partners brought in on the coat-tails of the Americans. It is the outcome of their last-ditch struggle to control Baghdad and central Iraq that is crucial to the country's future. If it does not work, the coalition troops may start pulling out and we may find that Iraq's long nightmare has only just begun. From Our Own Correspondent was broadcast on Thursday, 10 May, 2007 at 1100 GMT on BBC Radio 4. Please check the for World Service transmission times. E-mail this to a friend Personal reflections by BBC correspondents around the world SEARCH FROM OUR OWN CORRESPONDENT: Three Ways to Listen From Our Own Correspondent THE STRUGGLE FOR IRAQ Bombings leave many dead in Iraq Search for missing US Iraq troops US and Iran to hold talks on Iraq Bush 'would veto new Iraq bill' Car bomb explodes in Iraqi city The Iraq summit was a limited success for US contacts with Iran and Syria Despair as Baghdad plan falters Massacre fuels northern tensions Baghdad: Mapping the violence Iraq violence in figures Baker's sweet smell of success Your views: Iraq four years on TV reports on Iraq MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris Get slim on the office treadmill Free tool offers 'easy' coding Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies Most popular now, in detail 'No evidence' for Algarve arrest New doubt cast on Woolmer murder US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies New Media Home: The Conclusion Queen 'must be quizzed on Diana' Most popular now, in detail Can the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out...
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/programmes/from_our_own_correspondent/6639385.stm	BBC NEWS | Programmes | From Our Own Correspondent | A letter from Iraq to Tony Blair Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Thursday, 10 May 2007, 13:59 GMT 14:59 UK E-mail this to a friend A letter from Iraq to Tony Blair One issue threatens to overshadow Tony Blair's legacy, affecting his image and standing at home and abroad, the decision to go to war in Iraq. Even at the time of Saddam's fall, people were wary of the future I have never written to a politician in my life. But I very nearly made an exception for Tony Blair. It was towards the end of 2002, when it was already clear that the invasion of Iraq was only a matter of time. I found myself deeply torn. I had no illusions about the nature of Saddam Hussein. I had followed his brutal antics for years. I had been to his Iraq, and felt the all-pervasive fear instilled by his vigilant and ruthless police state. What a relief it was to get on the plane and feel that oppressive weight lifted off your shoulders, an experience that most Iraqis were denied. But when Saddam's excesses were at their worst, during the war with Iran in the 1980s, he was actually being discreetly supported by the Americans. Washington was turning a blind eye to human rights reports from its own State Department detailing how Iraqi children were being tortured in front of their parents to get them to confess or inform. In 1988, when the Iraqi air force dropped chemical bombs which killed thousands of Kurds at Halabja, I remember phoning the Pentagon, and being told: "We think it was the Iranians who did it." So on a personal level, I would be glad to see the end of Saddam Hussein and his harsh dictatorship. It was clear, long before it happened, that this was going to be a terrible mess. It had to be But the impending invasion was clearly not about to happen because he was a bad man. It might be the right thing, but it was being done for the wrong reasons - reasons that had more to do with the global ambitions of the ascendant neo-conservatives in Washington, and their desire to engineer a New Order in the Middle East. The chosen pretexts for the war - Saddam's alleged weapons of mass destruction and links with international terror - turned out to be simply invalid. I have often thought, over these past four years, of that regular cartoon slot in the satirical magazine Private Eye, entitled "Things We Seldom See". It features situations which would be blindingly logical, but just never happen. I wanted to propose one where President Bush addresses Saddam Hussein and says: "Mr Hussein, you were right. There were no weapons of mass destruction, and no links with terrorism. We'd like to apologise, and give you your country back." Apart from misgivings about Washington's real motives and objectives, it was clear, long before it happened, that this was going to be a terrible mess. It had to be. Iraq is a patchwork country, an ethnic and confessional cocktail, of Arabs and Kurds, Turkomans and Chaldaeans, Sunnis and Shiites. Iraq has been plagued with civil unrest and violence Such countries are usually held together by a strong centralised dictatorship, which could be benign or tyrannical. As soon as you admit the concept of democracy and take the lid off, it is bound to be difficult and chaotic in the best of conditions, in a place with no democratic traditions or culture. To blow the regime and all its control mechanisms away virtually overnight, through the massive use of force by people from halfway around the world, would inevitably plunge the country and the region into a long period of chaos, whatever exact form it would take. That is why I lay sleepless in my bed in Tehran, mentally composing that letter to Tony Blair that I never wrote. I was going to tell him, on the basis of three decades living and working in the region, that he was on the brink of a massive historical blunder. I never sent it, because I knew of course that it would not make a blind bit of difference, apart from perhaps salving my own conscience, and allowing me to say: "I told you so" - something that would bring no satisfaction at all. And so, four years on, look at what a terrible mess Mr Blair can now say goodbye to, and hand on to Gordon Brown. Where there used to be tight state control, there is massive terrorism on a daily basis. The Americans have been bombing Baghdad again, to quell Sunni militants and Shiite militias. At the end of the day, the British are minor players, politically important partners brought in on the coat-tails of the Americans They are building walls to separate districts, euphemistically calling them "gated communities". Millions of Iraqis have fled the country. In the south, British troops are trying to stifle Shiite militias which know they only have to wait, because the British will be gone before long. A transition of leadership in London is not going to make much difference on the ground in Iraq. Gordon Brown will be locked into a situation which he might or might not have chosen to get into in the first place, but will now be stuck with, and his options will be limited. At the end of the day, the British are minor players, politically important partners brought in on the coat-tails of the Americans. It is the outcome of their last-ditch struggle to control Baghdad and central Iraq that is crucial to the country's future. If it does not work, the coalition troops may start pulling out and we may find that Iraq's long nightmare has only just begun. From Our Own Correspondent was broadcast on Thursday, 10 May, 2007 at 1100 GMT on BBC Radio 4. Please check the for World Service transmission times. E-mail this to a friend Personal reflections by BBC correspondents around the world SEARCH FROM OUR OWN CORRESPONDENT: Three Ways to Listen From Our Own Correspondent THE STRUGGLE FOR IRAQ Bombings leave many dead in Iraq Search for missing US Iraq troops US and Iran to hold talks on Iraq Bush 'would veto new Iraq bill' Car bomb explodes in Iraqi city The Iraq summit was a limited success for US contacts with Iran and Syria Despair as Baghdad plan falters Massacre fuels northern tensions Baghdad: Mapping the violence Iraq violence in figures Baker's sweet smell of success Your views: Iraq four years on TV reports on Iraq MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris Get slim on the office treadmill Free tool offers 'easy' coding Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies Most popular now, in detail 'No evidence' for Algarve arrest New doubt cast on Woolmer murder US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies New Media Home: The Conclusion Queen 'must be quizzed on Diana' Most popular now, in detail Can the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out...
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/world/africa/6658773.stm	BBC NEWS | World | Africa | Locals seize Nigeria oil facility Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Tuesday, 15 May 2007, 17:02 GMT 18:02 UK E-mail this to a friend Locals seize Nigeria oil facility Protests have led to cuts in oil production in Nigeria Angry Ogoni youths have taken over an oil facility in Nigeria's volatile Niger Delta region leading to cuts in oil production, officials say. The villagers, angered by oil spills from pipelines running through their community say they will not leave until they are paid compensation. The protests have led Royal Dutch Shell Plc to reduce crude oil production by 170,000 barrels per day. A Shell spokesman said negotiations with the youths had begun. The BBC's Abdullahi Kaura in Port Harcourt says the Ogoni people have had a running battle with the oil giant for the past 14 years over oil spills. Insiders say Shell is planning to resume production in Ogoniland, 14 years after they were forced out of the area by the villagers, a factor that may have triggered the new protest inside the facility near K-Dere in Ogoniland. Nigeria's authorities have warned the company to resume oil production in Ogoniland or risk having their oil prospecting licence for oil blocks in the area revoked. "The villagers are aware of this and may have decided to take over the facility to remind the company that they haven't forgotten their past deeds," a security source told the BBC's News website. E-mail this to a friend Get the latest breaking news delivered to your desktop or mobile device The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Ethiopia warned on Somali pullout Cameroon's crash pilot 'warned' Locals seize Nigeria oil facility MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Get slim on the office treadmill Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris Free tool offers 'easy' coding Spielberg 'to make Tintin movie' Gaza faction boosts police ranks Most popular now, in detail 'No evidence' for Algarve arrest US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies New doubt cast on Woolmer murder New Media Home: The Conclusion Queen 'must be quizzed on Diana' Most popular now, in detail Can the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out... Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/world/africa/6658773.stm	BBC NEWS | World | Africa | Locals seize Nigeria oil facility Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Tuesday, 15 May 2007, 17:02 GMT 18:02 UK E-mail this to a friend Locals seize Nigeria oil facility Protests have led to cuts in oil production in Nigeria Angry Ogoni youths have taken over an oil facility in Nigeria's volatile Niger Delta region leading to cuts in oil production, officials say. The villagers, angered by oil spills from pipelines running through their community say they will not leave until they are paid compensation. The protests have led Royal Dutch Shell Plc to reduce crude oil production by 170,000 barrels per day. A Shell spokesman said negotiations with the youths had begun. The BBC's Abdullahi Kaura in Port Harcourt says the Ogoni people have had a running battle with the oil giant for the past 14 years over oil spills. Insiders say Shell is planning to resume production in Ogoniland, 14 years after they were forced out of the area by the villagers, a factor that may have triggered the new protest inside the facility near K-Dere in Ogoniland. Nigeria's authorities have warned the company to resume oil production in Ogoniland or risk having their oil prospecting licence for oil blocks in the area revoked. "The villagers are aware of this and may have decided to take over the facility to remind the company that they haven't forgotten their past deeds," a security source told the BBC's News website. E-mail this to a friend Get the latest breaking news delivered to your desktop or mobile device The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Ethiopia warned on Somali pullout Cameroon's crash pilot 'warned' Locals seize Nigeria oil facility MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Get slim on the office treadmill Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris Free tool offers 'easy' coding Spielberg 'to make Tintin movie' Gaza faction boosts police ranks Most popular now, in detail 'No evidence' for Algarve arrest US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies New doubt cast on Woolmer murder New Media Home: The Conclusion Queen 'must be quizzed on Diana' Most popular now, in detail Can the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out... Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/programmes/from_our_own_correspondent/6639385.stm	BBC NEWS | Programmes | From Our Own Correspondent | A letter from Iraq to Tony Blair Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Thursday, 10 May 2007, 13:59 GMT 14:59 UK E-mail this to a friend A letter from Iraq to Tony Blair One issue threatens to overshadow Tony Blair's legacy, affecting his image and standing at home and abroad, the decision to go to war in Iraq. Even at the time of Saddam's fall, people were wary of the future I have never written to a politician in my life. But I very nearly made an exception for Tony Blair. It was towards the end of 2002, when it was already clear that the invasion of Iraq was only a matter of time. I found myself deeply torn. I had no illusions about the nature of Saddam Hussein. I had followed his brutal antics for years. I had been to his Iraq, and felt the all-pervasive fear instilled by his vigilant and ruthless police state. What a relief it was to get on the plane and feel that oppressive weight lifted off your shoulders, an experience that most Iraqis were denied. But when Saddam's excesses were at their worst, during the war with Iran in the 1980s, he was actually being discreetly supported by the Americans. Washington was turning a blind eye to human rights reports from its own State Department detailing how Iraqi children were being tortured in front of their parents to get them to confess or inform. In 1988, when the Iraqi air force dropped chemical bombs which killed thousands of Kurds at Halabja, I remember phoning the Pentagon, and being told: "We think it was the Iranians who did it." So on a personal level, I would be glad to see the end of Saddam Hussein and his harsh dictatorship. It was clear, long before it happened, that this was going to be a terrible mess. It had to be But the impending invasion was clearly not about to happen because he was a bad man. It might be the right thing, but it was being done for the wrong reasons - reasons that had more to do with the global ambitions of the ascendant neo-conservatives in Washington, and their desire to engineer a New Order in the Middle East. The chosen pretexts for the war - Saddam's alleged weapons of mass destruction and links with international terror - turned out to be simply invalid. I have often thought, over these past four years, of that regular cartoon slot in the satirical magazine Private Eye, entitled "Things We Seldom See". It features situations which would be blindingly logical, but just never happen. I wanted to propose one where President Bush addresses Saddam Hussein and says: "Mr Hussein, you were right. There were no weapons of mass destruction, and no links with terrorism. We'd like to apologise, and give you your country back." Apart from misgivings about Washington's real motives and objectives, it was clear, long before it happened, that this was going to be a terrible mess. It had to be. Iraq is a patchwork country, an ethnic and confessional cocktail, of Arabs and Kurds, Turkomans and Chaldaeans, Sunnis and Shiites. Iraq has been plagued with civil unrest and violence Such countries are usually held together by a strong centralised dictatorship, which could be benign or tyrannical. As soon as you admit the concept of democracy and take the lid off, it is bound to be difficult and chaotic in the best of conditions, in a place with no democratic traditions or culture. To blow the regime and all its control mechanisms away virtually overnight, through the massive use of force by people from halfway around the world, would inevitably plunge the country and the region into a long period of chaos, whatever exact form it would take. That is why I lay sleepless in my bed in Tehran, mentally composing that letter to Tony Blair that I never wrote. I was going to tell him, on the basis of three decades living and working in the region, that he was on the brink of a massive historical blunder. I never sent it, because I knew of course that it would not make a blind bit of difference, apart from perhaps salving my own conscience, and allowing me to say: "I told you so" - something that would bring no satisfaction at all. And so, four years on, look at what a terrible mess Mr Blair can now say goodbye to, and hand on to Gordon Brown. Where there used to be tight state control, there is massive terrorism on a daily basis. The Americans have been bombing Baghdad again, to quell Sunni militants and Shiite militias. At the end of the day, the British are minor players, politically important partners brought in on the coat-tails of the Americans They are building walls to separate districts, euphemistically calling them "gated communities". Millions of Iraqis have fled the country. In the south, British troops are trying to stifle Shiite militias which know they only have to wait, because the British will be gone before long. A transition of leadership in London is not going to make much difference on the ground in Iraq. Gordon Brown will be locked into a situation which he might or might not have chosen to get into in the first place, but will now be stuck with, and his options will be limited. At the end of the day, the British are minor players, politically important partners brought in on the coat-tails of the Americans. It is the outcome of their last-ditch struggle to control Baghdad and central Iraq that is crucial to the country's future. If it does not work, the coalition troops may start pulling out and we may find that Iraq's long nightmare has only just begun. From Our Own Correspondent was broadcast on Thursday, 10 May, 2007 at 1100 GMT on BBC Radio 4. Please check the for World Service transmission times. E-mail this to a friend Personal reflections by BBC correspondents around the world SEARCH FROM OUR OWN CORRESPONDENT: Three Ways to Listen From Our Own Correspondent THE STRUGGLE FOR IRAQ Bombings leave many dead in Iraq Search for missing US Iraq troops US and Iran to hold talks on Iraq Bush 'would veto new Iraq bill' Car bomb explodes in Iraqi city The Iraq summit was a limited success for US contacts with Iran and Syria Despair as Baghdad plan falters Massacre fuels northern tensions Baghdad: Mapping the violence Iraq violence in figures Baker's sweet smell of success Your views: Iraq four years on TV reports on Iraq MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris Get slim on the office treadmill Free tool offers 'easy' coding Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies Most popular now, in detail 'No evidence' for Algarve arrest US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies New doubt cast on Woolmer murder New Media Home: The Conclusion Queen 'must be quizzed on Diana' Most popular now, in detail Can the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out...
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/programmes/from_our_own_correspondent/6639385.stm	BBC NEWS | Programmes | From Our Own Correspondent | A letter from Iraq to Tony Blair Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Thursday, 10 May 2007, 13:59 GMT 14:59 UK E-mail this to a friend A letter from Iraq to Tony Blair One issue threatens to overshadow Tony Blair's legacy, affecting his image and standing at home and abroad, the decision to go to war in Iraq. Even at the time of Saddam's fall, people were wary of the future I have never written to a politician in my life. But I very nearly made an exception for Tony Blair. It was towards the end of 2002, when it was already clear that the invasion of Iraq was only a matter of time. I found myself deeply torn. I had no illusions about the nature of Saddam Hussein. I had followed his brutal antics for years. I had been to his Iraq, and felt the all-pervasive fear instilled by his vigilant and ruthless police state. What a relief it was to get on the plane and feel that oppressive weight lifted off your shoulders, an experience that most Iraqis were denied. But when Saddam's excesses were at their worst, during the war with Iran in the 1980s, he was actually being discreetly supported by the Americans. Washington was turning a blind eye to human rights reports from its own State Department detailing how Iraqi children were being tortured in front of their parents to get them to confess or inform. In 1988, when the Iraqi air force dropped chemical bombs which killed thousands of Kurds at Halabja, I remember phoning the Pentagon, and being told: "We think it was the Iranians who did it." So on a personal level, I would be glad to see the end of Saddam Hussein and his harsh dictatorship. It was clear, long before it happened, that this was going to be a terrible mess. It had to be But the impending invasion was clearly not about to happen because he was a bad man. It might be the right thing, but it was being done for the wrong reasons - reasons that had more to do with the global ambitions of the ascendant neo-conservatives in Washington, and their desire to engineer a New Order in the Middle East. The chosen pretexts for the war - Saddam's alleged weapons of mass destruction and links with international terror - turned out to be simply invalid. I have often thought, over these past four years, of that regular cartoon slot in the satirical magazine Private Eye, entitled "Things We Seldom See". It features situations which would be blindingly logical, but just never happen. I wanted to propose one where President Bush addresses Saddam Hussein and says: "Mr Hussein, you were right. There were no weapons of mass destruction, and no links with terrorism. We'd like to apologise, and give you your country back." Apart from misgivings about Washington's real motives and objectives, it was clear, long before it happened, that this was going to be a terrible mess. It had to be. Iraq is a patchwork country, an ethnic and confessional cocktail, of Arabs and Kurds, Turkomans and Chaldaeans, Sunnis and Shiites. Iraq has been plagued with civil unrest and violence Such countries are usually held together by a strong centralised dictatorship, which could be benign or tyrannical. As soon as you admit the concept of democracy and take the lid off, it is bound to be difficult and chaotic in the best of conditions, in a place with no democratic traditions or culture. To blow the regime and all its control mechanisms away virtually overnight, through the massive use of force by people from halfway around the world, would inevitably plunge the country and the region into a long period of chaos, whatever exact form it would take. That is why I lay sleepless in my bed in Tehran, mentally composing that letter to Tony Blair that I never wrote. I was going to tell him, on the basis of three decades living and working in the region, that he was on the brink of a massive historical blunder. I never sent it, because I knew of course that it would not make a blind bit of difference, apart from perhaps salving my own conscience, and allowing me to say: "I told you so" - something that would bring no satisfaction at all. And so, four years on, look at what a terrible mess Mr Blair can now say goodbye to, and hand on to Gordon Brown. Where there used to be tight state control, there is massive terrorism on a daily basis. The Americans have been bombing Baghdad again, to quell Sunni militants and Shiite militias. At the end of the day, the British are minor players, politically important partners brought in on the coat-tails of the Americans They are building walls to separate districts, euphemistically calling them "gated communities". Millions of Iraqis have fled the country. In the south, British troops are trying to stifle Shiite militias which know they only have to wait, because the British will be gone before long. A transition of leadership in London is not going to make much difference on the ground in Iraq. Gordon Brown will be locked into a situation which he might or might not have chosen to get into in the first place, but will now be stuck with, and his options will be limited. At the end of the day, the British are minor players, politically important partners brought in on the coat-tails of the Americans. It is the outcome of their last-ditch struggle to control Baghdad and central Iraq that is crucial to the country's future. If it does not work, the coalition troops may start pulling out and we may find that Iraq's long nightmare has only just begun. From Our Own Correspondent was broadcast on Thursday, 10 May, 2007 at 1100 GMT on BBC Radio 4. Please check the for World Service transmission times. E-mail this to a friend Personal reflections by BBC correspondents around the world SEARCH FROM OUR OWN CORRESPONDENT: Three Ways to Listen From Our Own Correspondent THE STRUGGLE FOR IRAQ Bombings leave many dead in Iraq Search for missing US Iraq troops US and Iran to hold talks on Iraq Bush 'would veto new Iraq bill' Car bomb explodes in Iraqi city The Iraq summit was a limited success for US contacts with Iran and Syria Despair as Baghdad plan falters Massacre fuels northern tensions Baghdad: Mapping the violence Iraq violence in figures Baker's sweet smell of success Your views: Iraq four years on TV reports on Iraq MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris Get slim on the office treadmill Free tool offers 'easy' coding Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies Most popular now, in detail 'No evidence' for Algarve arrest US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies New doubt cast on Woolmer murder New Media Home: The Conclusion Queen 'must be quizzed on Diana' Most popular now, in detail Can the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out...
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/world/middle_east/6657243.stm	BBC NEWS | World | Middle East | West 'fails' on Iran nuclear fuel Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Tuesday, 15 May 2007, 14:14 GMT 15:14 UK E-mail this to a friend West 'fails' on Iran nuclear fuel Iran says it plans to install 50,000 centrifuges at the Natanz plant International efforts to halt Iran's uranium enrichment programme have been "overtaken by events", the head of the UN's nuclear agency has said. IAEA Director General Mohammed ElBaradei said Tehran now possessed "the knowledge about how to enrich". In an interview with the New York Times, he said the focus should now be on trying to stop Iran from going to industrial-scale production. Iran has denied accusations from the West that it seeks nuclear weapons. From a proliferation perspective, the fact of the matter is that one of the purposes of suspension ... has been overtaken by events Inspectors from the International Atomic Energy Agency revealed that Iran has solved its technical problems and is now capable of making fuel suitable for nuclear reactors. "From now on, it is simply a question of perfecting that knowledge. People will not like to hear it, but that's a fact," Mr ElBaradei said. The findings come after a short-notice inspection by the agency at Iran's main nuclear facility at Natanz on Sunday. "From a proliferation perspective, the fact of the matter is that one of the purposes of suspension - keeping them from getting the knowledge - has been overtaken by events," Mr ElBaradei said. 2003: Enrichment programme that had been hidden for 18 years is uncovered by IAEA Feb 2006: Iran reports to Security Council 5 Feb 2007: Diplomats confirm Iranian claims to have set up more than 300 centrifuges in two cascades 9 April: Iran says it is enriching uranium on an industrial scale. IAEA and Russian officials are sceptical 19 April: IAEA document confirms Iran is running more than 1,300 centrifuges in eight cascades Q&A: Iran nuclear issue He added: "The focus now should be to stop them from going to industrial-scale production, to allow us to do a full-court-press inspection and to be sure they remain inside the treaty." His remarks will serve to increase the pressure on the US, British, French, German and Russian governments, whose collective efforts to halt Iran's nuclear research have so-far failed, says BBC diplomatic correspondent Jonathan Marcus. Last month the agency revealed the main nuclear plant at Natanz was using about 1,300 centrifuges - machines that spin uranium gas into enriched material. Until recently, those centrifuges were incapable of running at the speeds necessary to make nuclear fuel. However, the material being produced by Iran still requires further enrichment before it can be turned into bomb-grade material. Mr ElBaradei has previously said that Iran would not be able to produce the highly enriched uranium needed for a nuclear bomb as long as it remained under the supervision of IAEA inspectors. The agency is due to report its findings to the UN Security Council next week. The UN Security Council has imposed sanctions on Tehran for its failure to scale back its nuclear programme. Nicholas Burns, the US undersecretary of state for policy, told the New York Times that if Iran does not agree to suspend its activities by the time of next month's G8 meeting, the US would press for a third round of sanctions. Tehran has insisted that its nuclear programme is for peaceful purposes only. E-mail this to a friend Iran nuclear official 'detained' Solana urges US to talk to Iran EU agrees Iran nuclear sanctions Iran nuclear operations confirmed What's behind the row between the UN and Tehran over its nuclear programme Tehran alarm at US tough talk Quick guide: Iran nuclear crisis Iran's key nuclear sites From atom to bomb How should world deal with Iran? Inside Iran - special report The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites TOP MIDDLE EAST STORIES Gaza faction boosts police ranks Iran 'steps up nuclear work' Israel Jerusalem policy condemned MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris Get slim on the office treadmill Free tool offers 'easy' coding Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies Most popular now, in detail 'No evidence' for Algarve arrest US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies New doubt cast on Woolmer murder New Media Home: The Conclusion Queen 'must be quizzed on Diana' Most popular now, in detail Can the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out... Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/world/middle_east/6657243.stm	BBC NEWS | World | Middle East | West 'fails' on Iran nuclear fuel Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Tuesday, 15 May 2007, 14:14 GMT 15:14 UK E-mail this to a friend West 'fails' on Iran nuclear fuel Iran says it plans to install 50,000 centrifuges at the Natanz plant International efforts to halt Iran's uranium enrichment programme have been "overtaken by events", the head of the UN's nuclear agency has said. IAEA Director General Mohammed ElBaradei said Tehran now possessed "the knowledge about how to enrich". In an interview with the New York Times, he said the focus should now be on trying to stop Iran from going to industrial-scale production. Iran has denied accusations from the West that it seeks nuclear weapons. From a proliferation perspective, the fact of the matter is that one of the purposes of suspension ... has been overtaken by events Inspectors from the International Atomic Energy Agency revealed that Iran has solved its technical problems and is now capable of making fuel suitable for nuclear reactors. "From now on, it is simply a question of perfecting that knowledge. People will not like to hear it, but that's a fact," Mr ElBaradei said. The findings come after a short-notice inspection by the agency at Iran's main nuclear facility at Natanz on Sunday. "From a proliferation perspective, the fact of the matter is that one of the purposes of suspension - keeping them from getting the knowledge - has been overtaken by events," Mr ElBaradei said. 2003: Enrichment programme that had been hidden for 18 years is uncovered by IAEA Feb 2006: Iran reports to Security Council 5 Feb 2007: Diplomats confirm Iranian claims to have set up more than 300 centrifuges in two cascades 9 April: Iran says it is enriching uranium on an industrial scale. IAEA and Russian officials are sceptical 19 April: IAEA document confirms Iran is running more than 1,300 centrifuges in eight cascades Q&A: Iran nuclear issue He added: "The focus now should be to stop them from going to industrial-scale production, to allow us to do a full-court-press inspection and to be sure they remain inside the treaty." His remarks will serve to increase the pressure on the US, British, French, German and Russian governments, whose collective efforts to halt Iran's nuclear research have so-far failed, says BBC diplomatic correspondent Jonathan Marcus. Last month the agency revealed the main nuclear plant at Natanz was using about 1,300 centrifuges - machines that spin uranium gas into enriched material. Until recently, those centrifuges were incapable of running at the speeds necessary to make nuclear fuel. However, the material being produced by Iran still requires further enrichment before it can be turned into bomb-grade material. Mr ElBaradei has previously said that Iran would not be able to produce the highly enriched uranium needed for a nuclear bomb as long as it remained under the supervision of IAEA inspectors. The agency is due to report its findings to the UN Security Council next week. The UN Security Council has imposed sanctions on Tehran for its failure to scale back its nuclear programme. Nicholas Burns, the US undersecretary of state for policy, told the New York Times that if Iran does not agree to suspend its activities by the time of next month's G8 meeting, the US would press for a third round of sanctions. Tehran has insisted that its nuclear programme is for peaceful purposes only. E-mail this to a friend Iran nuclear official 'detained' Solana urges US to talk to Iran EU agrees Iran nuclear sanctions Iran nuclear operations confirmed What's behind the row between the UN and Tehran over its nuclear programme Tehran alarm at US tough talk Quick guide: Iran nuclear crisis Iran's key nuclear sites From atom to bomb How should world deal with Iran? Inside Iran - special report The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites TOP MIDDLE EAST STORIES Gaza faction boosts police ranks Iran 'steps up nuclear work' Israel Jerusalem policy condemned MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris Get slim on the office treadmill Free tool offers 'easy' coding Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies Most popular now, in detail 'No evidence' for Algarve arrest US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies New doubt cast on Woolmer murder New Media Home: The Conclusion Queen 'must be quizzed on Diana' Most popular now, in detail Can the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out... Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/world/default.stm	BBC NEWS | World Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Tuesday, 15 May 2007, 21:06 GMT 22:06 UK US to ignore Russia missile fears The US will not let Russia veto its missile defence plan in Europe, Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice says. Putin attacks 'very dangerous' US Q&A: US missile defence How US missile shield works Gaza faction boosts police ranks Hundreds of Fatah loyalists enter Gaza after special training in Egypt, on a bloody day of factional fighting. US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies Leading US conservative evangelist Rev Jerry Falwell dies in hospital in Lynchburg, Virginia, aged 73. Chirac bids farewell urging unity Spaniard finds mummy in new flat Brazilian guilty of US nun murder White House stands by Wolfowitz Israel is 'reshaping' Jerusalem Ethiopia warned on Somali pullout ALSO IN THE NEWS Face mask recommended for yellowing Taj Mahal Outrage as toddler left at Japan drop-off for unwanted newborns Football: Fifa to probe Tevez saga Tennis: Murray doubts for France Bullets and not politicians are doing the talking in Gaza Paris crackles with rumour about the new first couple Why the Pentagon is clamping down on video from the front VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS Record breakers: Students in a sauna Pakistan bombing kills many US troops target Sadr City Stallone admits hormone case More Video / Audio News WORLD SERVICE RADIO PROGRAMMES MOST POPULAR VIDEO AND AUDIO Students set new sauna record Reporter's fury caught on tape Jealous osprey back in nest Panorama: Scientology and Me US to pursue missile plans No arrest in Madeleine case AROUND THE WORLD NOW Cameroon's crash pilot 'warned' Locals seize Nigeria oil facility US detainee 'mentally tortured' New doubt on Woolmer murder Violence mars Philippine count Japan boy 'severs mother's head' 'No evidence' for Algarve arrest EU close to roaming charge deal Iran 'steps up nuclear work' Gaddafi to sue over health claims Many killed in Pakistan bombing India eyes north-east oil and gas MORE FROM BBC NEWS FROM OUR OWN CORRESPONDENT A pygmy conference in the rainforest The comfort of a rusting roof A letter from Iraq to Tony Blair Strong and independent judiciary can do what perhaps nobody else can do in Pakistan. Footballers win sex toy damages Row over Scientology video Violent clashes hit Pakistan city Nasa unveils Hubble's successor 'New leads' in Madeleine search The international community's faltering efforts to bring peace Jeremy Bowen on the PM's potential as Middle East mediator Missing for 64 days Help Alan Johnston's friends prepare to mark his birthday ELSEWHERE ON THE BBC Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/world/default.stm	BBC NEWS | World Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Tuesday, 15 May 2007, 21:06 GMT 22:06 UK US to ignore Russia missile fears The US will not let Russia veto its missile defence plan in Europe, Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice says. Putin attacks 'very dangerous' US Q&A: US missile defence How US missile shield works Gaza faction boosts police ranks Hundreds of Fatah loyalists enter Gaza after special training in Egypt, on a bloody day of factional fighting. US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies Leading US conservative evangelist Rev Jerry Falwell dies in hospital in Lynchburg, Virginia, aged 73. Chirac bids farewell urging unity Spaniard finds mummy in new flat Brazilian guilty of US nun murder White House stands by Wolfowitz Israel is 'reshaping' Jerusalem Ethiopia warned on Somali pullout ALSO IN THE NEWS Face mask recommended for yellowing Taj Mahal Outrage as toddler left at Japan drop-off for unwanted newborns Football: Fifa to probe Tevez saga Tennis: Murray doubts for France Bullets and not politicians are doing the talking in Gaza Paris crackles with rumour about the new first couple Why the Pentagon is clamping down on video from the front VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS Record breakers: Students in a sauna Pakistan bombing kills many US troops target Sadr City Stallone admits hormone case More Video / Audio News WORLD SERVICE RADIO PROGRAMMES MOST POPULAR VIDEO AND AUDIO Students set new sauna record Reporter's fury caught on tape Jealous osprey back in nest Panorama: Scientology and Me US to pursue missile plans No arrest in Madeleine case AROUND THE WORLD NOW Cameroon's crash pilot 'warned' Locals seize Nigeria oil facility US detainee 'mentally tortured' New doubt on Woolmer murder Violence mars Philippine count Japan boy 'severs mother's head' 'No evidence' for Algarve arrest EU close to roaming charge deal Iran 'steps up nuclear work' Gaddafi to sue over health claims Many killed in Pakistan bombing India eyes north-east oil and gas MORE FROM BBC NEWS FROM OUR OWN CORRESPONDENT A pygmy conference in the rainforest The comfort of a rusting roof A letter from Iraq to Tony Blair Strong and independent judiciary can do what perhaps nobody else can do in Pakistan. Footballers win sex toy damages Row over Scientology video Violent clashes hit Pakistan city Nasa unveils Hubble's successor 'New leads' in Madeleine search The international community's faltering efforts to bring peace Jeremy Bowen on the PM's potential as Middle East mediator Missing for 64 days Help Alan Johnston's friends prepare to mark his birthday ELSEWHERE ON THE BBC Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/world/middle_east/6658799.stm	BBC NEWS | World | Middle East | Israel Jerusalem policy condemned Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Tuesday, 15 May 2007, 15:50 GMT 16:50 UK E-mail this to a friend Israel Jerusalem policy condemned Israel has built an outer ring of settlements around East Jerusalem The international Red Cross has privately accused Israel of reshaping Jerusalem to further its own interests, in violation of international law. A leaked ICRC report says Israeli policy has far-reaching humanitarian consequences for Palestinians living under occupation in East Jerusalem. Israel captured East Jerusalem in 1967, and the territory is regarded as occupied land under international law. But Israel rejects this, and says the report's premise is, therefore, wrong. The report says Israel shows "general disregard" for its obligations under international humanitarian law and the law of military occupation in particular. Violations that change the status of East Jerusalem include the West Bank barrier, an outer ring of Jewish settlements around the city and roads to connect Israeli districts and settlements, the report says. An ICRC spokesman confirmed that leaked quotations in a US newspaper were from a confidential report transmitted in February 2007 to Israel and some other governments. The leak comes a day before Israel marks 40 years, according to the Jewish calendar, since its capture of East Jerusalem from Jordanian control, in the 1967 war. "We reject the premise of the report," said Israeli foreign ministry spokesman Mark Regev. "East Jerusalem is not occupied land, it is part of Israel. All people there were offered full Israeli citizenship." Israel's unilateral moves in Jerusalem have been condemned by several UN Security Council Resolutions. US and EU ambassadors have boycotted ceremonies in the run-up to Israel's Jerusalem Day on Wednesday, arguing that the status of the city should be determined by negotiations with the Palestinians. E-mail this to a friend Gaza faction boosts police ranks Gaza factions 'agree new truce' UK Palestinians in Johnston plea BBC's Johnston wins press award Weapons and bullets, not politicians, are doing the talking in Gaza 'Wake-up call' for Israel Wave of discontent in Israel Timeline: Alan Johnston missing Palestinian rivals: Fatah & Hamas Israeli views on Halutz International Committee of the Red Cross The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites TOP MIDDLE EAST STORIES Gaza faction boosts police ranks Iran 'steps up nuclear work' Israel Jerusalem policy condemned MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris Get slim on the office treadmill Free tool offers 'easy' coding Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies Most popular now, in detail 'No evidence' for Algarve arrest US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies New doubt cast on Woolmer murder New Media Home: The Conclusion Queen 'must be quizzed on Diana' Most popular now, in detail Can the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out... Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/world/middle_east/6658799.stm	BBC NEWS | World | Middle East | Israel Jerusalem policy condemned Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Tuesday, 15 May 2007, 15:50 GMT 16:50 UK E-mail this to a friend Israel Jerusalem policy condemned Israel has built an outer ring of settlements around East Jerusalem The international Red Cross has privately accused Israel of reshaping Jerusalem to further its own interests, in violation of international law. A leaked ICRC report says Israeli policy has far-reaching humanitarian consequences for Palestinians living under occupation in East Jerusalem. Israel captured East Jerusalem in 1967, and the territory is regarded as occupied land under international law. But Israel rejects this, and says the report's premise is, therefore, wrong. The report says Israel shows "general disregard" for its obligations under international humanitarian law and the law of military occupation in particular. Violations that change the status of East Jerusalem include the West Bank barrier, an outer ring of Jewish settlements around the city and roads to connect Israeli districts and settlements, the report says. An ICRC spokesman confirmed that leaked quotations in a US newspaper were from a confidential report transmitted in February 2007 to Israel and some other governments. The leak comes a day before Israel marks 40 years, according to the Jewish calendar, since its capture of East Jerusalem from Jordanian control, in the 1967 war. "We reject the premise of the report," said Israeli foreign ministry spokesman Mark Regev. "East Jerusalem is not occupied land, it is part of Israel. All people there were offered full Israeli citizenship." Israel's unilateral moves in Jerusalem have been condemned by several UN Security Council Resolutions. US and EU ambassadors have boycotted ceremonies in the run-up to Israel's Jerusalem Day on Wednesday, arguing that the status of the city should be determined by negotiations with the Palestinians. E-mail this to a friend Gaza faction boosts police ranks Gaza factions 'agree new truce' UK Palestinians in Johnston plea BBC's Johnston wins press award Weapons and bullets, not politicians, are doing the talking in Gaza 'Wake-up call' for Israel Wave of discontent in Israel Timeline: Alan Johnston missing Palestinian rivals: Fatah & Hamas Israeli views on Halutz International Committee of the Red Cross The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites TOP MIDDLE EAST STORIES Gaza faction boosts police ranks Iran 'steps up nuclear work' Israel Jerusalem policy condemned MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris Get slim on the office treadmill Free tool offers 'easy' coding Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies Most popular now, in detail 'No evidence' for Algarve arrest US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies New doubt cast on Woolmer murder New Media Home: The Conclusion Queen 'must be quizzed on Diana' Most popular now, in detail Can the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out... Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/middle_east/6657243.stm	BBC NEWS | World | Middle East | West 'fails' on Iran nuclear fuel Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Tuesday, 15 May 2007, 14:14 GMT 15:14 UK E-mail this to a friend West 'fails' on Iran nuclear fuel Iran says it plans to install 50,000 centrifuges at the Natanz plant International efforts to halt Iran's uranium enrichment programme have been "overtaken by events", the head of the UN's nuclear agency has said. IAEA Director General Mohammed ElBaradei said Tehran now possessed "the knowledge about how to enrich". In an interview with the New York Times, he said the focus should now be on trying to stop Iran from going to industrial-scale production. Iran has denied accusations from the West that it seeks nuclear weapons. From a proliferation perspective, the fact of the matter is that one of the purposes of suspension ... has been overtaken by events Inspectors from the International Atomic Energy Agency revealed that Iran has solved its technical problems and is now capable of making fuel suitable for nuclear reactors. "From now on, it is simply a question of perfecting that knowledge. People will not like to hear it, but that's a fact," Mr ElBaradei said. The findings come after a short-notice inspection by the agency at Iran's main nuclear facility at Natanz on Sunday. "From a proliferation perspective, the fact of the matter is that one of the purposes of suspension - keeping them from getting the knowledge - has been overtaken by events," Mr ElBaradei said. 2003: Enrichment programme that had been hidden for 18 years is uncovered by IAEA Feb 2006: Iran reports to Security Council 5 Feb 2007: Diplomats confirm Iranian claims to have set up more than 300 centrifuges in two cascades 9 April: Iran says it is enriching uranium on an industrial scale. IAEA and Russian officials are sceptical 19 April: IAEA document confirms Iran is running more than 1,300 centrifuges in eight cascades Q&A: Iran nuclear issue He added: "The focus now should be to stop them from going to industrial-scale production, to allow us to do a full-court-press inspection and to be sure they remain inside the treaty." His remarks will serve to increase the pressure on the US, British, French, German and Russian governments, whose collective efforts to halt Iran's nuclear research have so-far failed, says BBC diplomatic correspondent Jonathan Marcus. Last month the agency revealed the main nuclear plant at Natanz was using about 1,300 centrifuges - machines that spin uranium gas into enriched material. Until recently, those centrifuges were incapable of running at the speeds necessary to make nuclear fuel. However, the material being produced by Iran still requires further enrichment before it can be turned into bomb-grade material. Mr ElBaradei has previously said that Iran would not be able to produce the highly enriched uranium needed for a nuclear bomb as long as it remained under the supervision of IAEA inspectors. The agency is due to report its findings to the UN Security Council next week. The UN Security Council has imposed sanctions on Tehran for its failure to scale back its nuclear programme. Nicholas Burns, the US undersecretary of state for policy, told the New York Times that if Iran does not agree to suspend its activities by the time of next month's G8 meeting, the US would press for a third round of sanctions. Tehran has insisted that its nuclear programme is for peaceful purposes only. E-mail this to a friend Iran nuclear official 'detained' Solana urges US to talk to Iran EU agrees Iran nuclear sanctions Iran nuclear operations confirmed What's behind the row between the UN and Tehran over its nuclear programme Tehran alarm at US tough talk Quick guide: Iran nuclear crisis Iran's key nuclear sites From atom to bomb How should world deal with Iran? Inside Iran - special report The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites TOP MIDDLE EAST STORIES Gaza faction boosts police ranks Iran 'steps up nuclear work' Israel Jerusalem policy condemned MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris Get slim on the office treadmill Free tool offers 'easy' coding Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies Most popular now, in detail 'No evidence' for Algarve arrest New doubt cast on Woolmer murder US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies New Media Home: The Conclusion Queen 'must be quizzed on Diana' Most popular now, in detail Can the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out... Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/middle_east/6657243.stm	BBC NEWS | World | Middle East | West 'fails' on Iran nuclear fuel Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Tuesday, 15 May 2007, 14:14 GMT 15:14 UK E-mail this to a friend West 'fails' on Iran nuclear fuel Iran says it plans to install 50,000 centrifuges at the Natanz plant International efforts to halt Iran's uranium enrichment programme have been "overtaken by events", the head of the UN's nuclear agency has said. IAEA Director General Mohammed ElBaradei said Tehran now possessed "the knowledge about how to enrich". In an interview with the New York Times, he said the focus should now be on trying to stop Iran from going to industrial-scale production. Iran has denied accusations from the West that it seeks nuclear weapons. From a proliferation perspective, the fact of the matter is that one of the purposes of suspension ... has been overtaken by events Inspectors from the International Atomic Energy Agency revealed that Iran has solved its technical problems and is now capable of making fuel suitable for nuclear reactors. "From now on, it is simply a question of perfecting that knowledge. People will not like to hear it, but that's a fact," Mr ElBaradei said. The findings come after a short-notice inspection by the agency at Iran's main nuclear facility at Natanz on Sunday. "From a proliferation perspective, the fact of the matter is that one of the purposes of suspension - keeping them from getting the knowledge - has been overtaken by events," Mr ElBaradei said. 2003: Enrichment programme that had been hidden for 18 years is uncovered by IAEA Feb 2006: Iran reports to Security Council 5 Feb 2007: Diplomats confirm Iranian claims to have set up more than 300 centrifuges in two cascades 9 April: Iran says it is enriching uranium on an industrial scale. IAEA and Russian officials are sceptical 19 April: IAEA document confirms Iran is running more than 1,300 centrifuges in eight cascades Q&A: Iran nuclear issue He added: "The focus now should be to stop them from going to industrial-scale production, to allow us to do a full-court-press inspection and to be sure they remain inside the treaty." His remarks will serve to increase the pressure on the US, British, French, German and Russian governments, whose collective efforts to halt Iran's nuclear research have so-far failed, says BBC diplomatic correspondent Jonathan Marcus. Last month the agency revealed the main nuclear plant at Natanz was using about 1,300 centrifuges - machines that spin uranium gas into enriched material. Until recently, those centrifuges were incapable of running at the speeds necessary to make nuclear fuel. However, the material being produced by Iran still requires further enrichment before it can be turned into bomb-grade material. Mr ElBaradei has previously said that Iran would not be able to produce the highly enriched uranium needed for a nuclear bomb as long as it remained under the supervision of IAEA inspectors. The agency is due to report its findings to the UN Security Council next week. The UN Security Council has imposed sanctions on Tehran for its failure to scale back its nuclear programme. Nicholas Burns, the US undersecretary of state for policy, told the New York Times that if Iran does not agree to suspend its activities by the time of next month's G8 meeting, the US would press for a third round of sanctions. Tehran has insisted that its nuclear programme is for peaceful purposes only. E-mail this to a friend Iran nuclear official 'detained' Solana urges US to talk to Iran EU agrees Iran nuclear sanctions Iran nuclear operations confirmed What's behind the row between the UN and Tehran over its nuclear programme Tehran alarm at US tough talk Quick guide: Iran nuclear crisis Iran's key nuclear sites From atom to bomb How should world deal with Iran? Inside Iran - special report The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites TOP MIDDLE EAST STORIES Gaza faction boosts police ranks Iran 'steps up nuclear work' Israel Jerusalem policy condemned MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris Get slim on the office treadmill Free tool offers 'easy' coding Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies Most popular now, in detail 'No evidence' for Algarve arrest New doubt cast on Woolmer murder US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies New Media Home: The Conclusion Queen 'must be quizzed on Diana' Most popular now, in detail Can the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out... Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/world/americas/6659585.stm	BBC NEWS | World | Americas | US detainee 'mentally tortured' Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Tuesday, 15 May 2007, 19:05 GMT 20:05 UK E-mail this to a friend US detainee 'mentally tortured' Mr Khan denies having links to al-Qaeda or Islamist extremists A Pakistani-born US resident detained at Guantanamo Bay has said he was "mentally tortured" there, according to a transcript released by the Pentagon. Majid Khan, who has been accused of planning to blow up petrol stations in the US, also described how he tried to commit suicide by chewing on an artery. Mr Khan presented a Statement of Torture to the US military tribunal reviewing his "enemy combatant" status. He was among 14 "high-value" detainees moved to Guantanamo Bay in September. The men were previously held in secret CIA prisons but are now being detained in a maximum security wing at the base in Cuba. Mr Khan moved to the US in the late 1990s, where he went to high school in Baltimore. The US government says that, on his return to Pakistan, family members introduced him to senior al-Qaeda leader Khalid Sheikh Mohammed. He is also accused of having links with fellow Guantanamo detainee Ali Abd al-Aziz Ali, and of passing money to the Islamist militant group, Jemaah Islamiah (JI). At the tribunal at Guantanamo Bay on 15 April, Mr Khan denied he had any connection with Islamist militant groups such as al-Qaeda. There is extensive torture even for the smallest of infractions Key US terror suspects "I am not an enemy combatant," he asserted. "I am not an extremist." "I have never been to Afghanistan and I have never met Osama bin Laden." Afterwards, Mr Khan's personal representative read out a written statement, in which he alleged psychological torture. "I swear to God this place in some sense worst than CIA jails. I am being mentally torture here," he said. "There is extensive torture even for the smallest of infractions." Mr Khan complained about how US guards had taken away pictures of his daughter, given him new glasses with the wrong prescription, shaved his beard off, forcibly fed him when he went on hunger strike, and denied him the opportunity for recreation. This led him to attempt to chew through his artery twice, Mr Khan said. Later, Mr Khan produced a list of further examples of psychological torture, which included the provision of "cheap, branded, unscented soap", the prison newsletter, noisy fans and half-inflated balls in the recreation room that "hardly bounce". E-mail this to a friend US detainee 'mentally tortured' Court rejects Guantanamo test Hicks gets Guantanamo plea deal Terror suspect 'tortured by US' USS Cole suspect 'admits guilt' KS Mohammed's '31 plots' The 14 key detainees Black hole or vital tool? Paul Reynolds looks at the issues surrounding the camp five years on How the camp has evolved New rules of treatment UN report in full (337k) US to ignore Russia missile fears Brazilian guilty of US nun murder US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris Get slim on the office treadmill Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat Free tool offers 'easy' coding Happiness wins science book prize Most popular now, in detail 'No evidence' for Algarve arrest US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies New doubt cast on Woolmer murder New Media Home: The Conclusion Queen 'must be quizzed on Diana' Most popular now, in detail Can the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out... Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/world/americas/6659585.stm	BBC NEWS | World | Americas | US detainee 'mentally tortured' Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Tuesday, 15 May 2007, 19:05 GMT 20:05 UK E-mail this to a friend US detainee 'mentally tortured' Mr Khan denies having links to al-Qaeda or Islamist extremists A Pakistani-born US resident detained at Guantanamo Bay has said he was "mentally tortured" there, according to a transcript released by the Pentagon. Majid Khan, who has been accused of planning to blow up petrol stations in the US, also described how he tried to commit suicide by chewing on an artery. Mr Khan presented a Statement of Torture to the US military tribunal reviewing his "enemy combatant" status. He was among 14 "high-value" detainees moved to Guantanamo Bay in September. The men were previously held in secret CIA prisons but are now being detained in a maximum security wing at the base in Cuba. Mr Khan moved to the US in the late 1990s, where he went to high school in Baltimore. The US government says that, on his return to Pakistan, family members introduced him to senior al-Qaeda leader Khalid Sheikh Mohammed. He is also accused of having links with fellow Guantanamo detainee Ali Abd al-Aziz Ali, and of passing money to the Islamist militant group, Jemaah Islamiah (JI). At the tribunal at Guantanamo Bay on 15 April, Mr Khan denied he had any connection with Islamist militant groups such as al-Qaeda. There is extensive torture even for the smallest of infractions Key US terror suspects "I am not an enemy combatant," he asserted. "I am not an extremist." "I have never been to Afghanistan and I have never met Osama bin Laden." Afterwards, Mr Khan's personal representative read out a written statement, in which he alleged psychological torture. "I swear to God this place in some sense worst than CIA jails. I am being mentally torture here," he said. "There is extensive torture even for the smallest of infractions." Mr Khan complained about how US guards had taken away pictures of his daughter, given him new glasses with the wrong prescription, shaved his beard off, forcibly fed him when he went on hunger strike, and denied him the opportunity for recreation. This led him to attempt to chew through his artery twice, Mr Khan said. Later, Mr Khan produced a list of further examples of psychological torture, which included the provision of "cheap, branded, unscented soap", the prison newsletter, noisy fans and half-inflated balls in the recreation room that "hardly bounce". E-mail this to a friend US detainee 'mentally tortured' Court rejects Guantanamo test Hicks gets Guantanamo plea deal Terror suspect 'tortured by US' USS Cole suspect 'admits guilt' KS Mohammed's '31 plots' The 14 key detainees Black hole or vital tool? Paul Reynolds looks at the issues surrounding the camp five years on How the camp has evolved New rules of treatment UN report in full (337k) US to ignore Russia missile fears Brazilian guilty of US nun murder US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris Get slim on the office treadmill Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat Free tool offers 'easy' coding Happiness wins science book prize Most popular now, in detail 'No evidence' for Algarve arrest US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies New doubt cast on Woolmer murder New Media Home: The Conclusion Queen 'must be quizzed on Diana' Most popular now, in detail Can the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out... Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/programmes/from_our_own_correspondent/6646517.stm	BBC NEWS | Programmes | From Our Own Correspondent | The comfort of a rusting roof Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Saturday, 12 May 2007, 11:19 GMT 12:19 UK E-mail this to a friend The comfort of a rusting roof The Liberian president Ellen Johnson Sirleaf is continuing with her attempt to steer the country back towards stability after years of war. And while some parts of the capital Monrovia now seem to be getting back to normal, in other parts just having a roof on your house is a major struggle. Reverend Thomson Yengbe greets guests in the temporary village hall The little houses in the villages along the road to Lofa County are neat and new, and - to an outside eye - the epitome of picturesque Africa. The mud huts have palm thatched roofs and walls freshly smoothed with ochre yellow clay. Some have even been decorated with hand prints and other patterns in those most ancient of pigments - white and black and terracotta red. But the people who live there are not particularly proud of their new homes. The destruction in many places was almost total Whenever I talked to them they were eager to tell me that they did not always live like this, and they were keen to show me the foundations of their old houses, spacious and solidly built with corrugated iron roofs. Lofa County, in the far north, on the borders of Guinea and Sierra Leone, for a long time escaped the worst of Liberia's civil war. But in the most recent - and everyone hopes final - phase of the war, after the year 2000, rebel forces invaded from over the Guinea border and fought their way south to unseat President Charles Taylor. Lofa County found itself right in the front line. The destruction in many places was almost total. Nyewolihun is a modest, out-of-the-way village in Kolahun district. We found it an hour and a half's walk down a rough track from Kolahun town. For 10 years and more the war passed this place by. Lofa County found itself in the front line of the final phase of the war But in 2001 government soldiers attacked the village without warning, from across the stream which marks the edge of the settlement, and burned it to the ground. They did not stop to explain why, but they may have suspected the villagers of sympathising with the rebels. The people scattered in all directions. When they returned they found the bodies of 16 of their neighbours lying among the smouldering ruins of their homes. After that everyone left and went to Sierra Leone or Guinea as refugees. In 2004 when their area was quiet they started coming home. The first to return had to rely on tree crops like bananas for food, and on hunting the game which had become plentiful in the abandoned forest. 'Some kind of a house' But this is a fertile area and Nyewolihun is growing all its own food once again. When we visited they served us home grown rice, with short nutty grains, fish from the stream and fresh cloudy palm wine. They hope to have their cocoa trees, their main cash crop, back in full production by next year. There are still gaps in the fabric of the village, the rubble of houses whose owners still have not come home, but most families have rebuilt some kind of a house, and there is a small mud and thatch school for the children. On the square foundation of the old meeting hall, a temporary marquee of green palm branches can be raised for special occasions. The towns, if anything, are in a worse state than the countryside. While people are busily rebuilding their own houses, the old Lebanese-owned stores that used to line the main street of Kolahun town are still in ruins. The local people in Lofa seemed quietly confident that peace would hold And among the ruins people are squatting, in tarpaulin and plywood shacks. Petty traders sit at rickety little stalls along the roadside. The best restaurant in town is a kind of wooden box built into the corner of one of the ruins, although it still manages flowered plastic table cloths, white net curtains over the doorways and a choice of main course - bean stew or pepper soup. The village was burnt to the ground by government soldiers in 2001 The Lebanese traders who used to have a stranglehold on Liberian commerce were often resented, but now the local authorities upcountry are begging them to come back. Despite all the rebuilding going on, no-one is selling building materials in the whole of Lofa County. Cement, roofing sheets, ceiling panels - all have to be bought in Monrovia, the capital, a long day's journey away on unpaved roads, and hauled back up at considerable expense. When I suggested to the owner of one store in Monrovia, close to the truck stop where lorries leave for the north, that he was missing a great commercial opportunity in places like Lofa, his verdict was that the situation was still far too dangerous to risk opening up again in the interior. And yet the local people in Lofa seemed quietly confident that peace would hold. While I was there I got embroiled in a debate about roofing sheets, the merits of various gauges and qualities and how long they would last. Could you manage with a thinner gauge as long as you were away from the corrosive effect of sea air? Would it have to be painted every year with anti-rust paint? The verdict was it would certainly last five years, perhaps 10. No-one even questioned whether it was worth spending the money, when someone might come and burn the village at gunpoint or carry off the roofing sheets. And that is a true sense of security - knowing that the roof will stay on your house until it finally rusts away. From Our Own Correspondent was broadcast on Saturday, 12 May, 2007 at 1130 BST on BBC Radio 4. Please check the for World Service transmission times. E-mail this to a friend Personal reflections by BBC correspondents around the world SEARCH FROM OUR OWN CORRESPONDENT: Three Ways to Listen From Our Own Correspondent 28 Feb 07 | Country profiles Liberia: A year of slow progress 16 Jan 07 | Africa In pictures: Liberia, one year on 16 Jan 07 | In Pictures MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Get slim on the office treadmill Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris Free tool offers 'easy' coding Spielberg 'to make Tintin movie' Gaza faction boosts police ranks Most popular now, in detail 'No evidence' for Algarve arrest US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies New doubt cast on Woolmer murder New Media Home: The Conclusion Queen 'must be quizzed on Diana' Most popular now, in detail Can the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out...
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/programmes/from_our_own_correspondent/6646517.stm	BBC NEWS | Programmes | From Our Own Correspondent | The comfort of a rusting roof Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Saturday, 12 May 2007, 11:19 GMT 12:19 UK E-mail this to a friend The comfort of a rusting roof The Liberian president Ellen Johnson Sirleaf is continuing with her attempt to steer the country back towards stability after years of war. And while some parts of the capital Monrovia now seem to be getting back to normal, in other parts just having a roof on your house is a major struggle. Reverend Thomson Yengbe greets guests in the temporary village hall The little houses in the villages along the road to Lofa County are neat and new, and - to an outside eye - the epitome of picturesque Africa. The mud huts have palm thatched roofs and walls freshly smoothed with ochre yellow clay. Some have even been decorated with hand prints and other patterns in those most ancient of pigments - white and black and terracotta red. But the people who live there are not particularly proud of their new homes. The destruction in many places was almost total Whenever I talked to them they were eager to tell me that they did not always live like this, and they were keen to show me the foundations of their old houses, spacious and solidly built with corrugated iron roofs. Lofa County, in the far north, on the borders of Guinea and Sierra Leone, for a long time escaped the worst of Liberia's civil war. But in the most recent - and everyone hopes final - phase of the war, after the year 2000, rebel forces invaded from over the Guinea border and fought their way south to unseat President Charles Taylor. Lofa County found itself right in the front line. The destruction in many places was almost total. Nyewolihun is a modest, out-of-the-way village in Kolahun district. We found it an hour and a half's walk down a rough track from Kolahun town. For 10 years and more the war passed this place by. Lofa County found itself in the front line of the final phase of the war But in 2001 government soldiers attacked the village without warning, from across the stream which marks the edge of the settlement, and burned it to the ground. They did not stop to explain why, but they may have suspected the villagers of sympathising with the rebels. The people scattered in all directions. When they returned they found the bodies of 16 of their neighbours lying among the smouldering ruins of their homes. After that everyone left and went to Sierra Leone or Guinea as refugees. In 2004 when their area was quiet they started coming home. The first to return had to rely on tree crops like bananas for food, and on hunting the game which had become plentiful in the abandoned forest. 'Some kind of a house' But this is a fertile area and Nyewolihun is growing all its own food once again. When we visited they served us home grown rice, with short nutty grains, fish from the stream and fresh cloudy palm wine. They hope to have their cocoa trees, their main cash crop, back in full production by next year. There are still gaps in the fabric of the village, the rubble of houses whose owners still have not come home, but most families have rebuilt some kind of a house, and there is a small mud and thatch school for the children. On the square foundation of the old meeting hall, a temporary marquee of green palm branches can be raised for special occasions. The towns, if anything, are in a worse state than the countryside. While people are busily rebuilding their own houses, the old Lebanese-owned stores that used to line the main street of Kolahun town are still in ruins. The local people in Lofa seemed quietly confident that peace would hold And among the ruins people are squatting, in tarpaulin and plywood shacks. Petty traders sit at rickety little stalls along the roadside. The best restaurant in town is a kind of wooden box built into the corner of one of the ruins, although it still manages flowered plastic table cloths, white net curtains over the doorways and a choice of main course - bean stew or pepper soup. The village was burnt to the ground by government soldiers in 2001 The Lebanese traders who used to have a stranglehold on Liberian commerce were often resented, but now the local authorities upcountry are begging them to come back. Despite all the rebuilding going on, no-one is selling building materials in the whole of Lofa County. Cement, roofing sheets, ceiling panels - all have to be bought in Monrovia, the capital, a long day's journey away on unpaved roads, and hauled back up at considerable expense. When I suggested to the owner of one store in Monrovia, close to the truck stop where lorries leave for the north, that he was missing a great commercial opportunity in places like Lofa, his verdict was that the situation was still far too dangerous to risk opening up again in the interior. And yet the local people in Lofa seemed quietly confident that peace would hold. While I was there I got embroiled in a debate about roofing sheets, the merits of various gauges and qualities and how long they would last. Could you manage with a thinner gauge as long as you were away from the corrosive effect of sea air? Would it have to be painted every year with anti-rust paint? The verdict was it would certainly last five years, perhaps 10. No-one even questioned whether it was worth spending the money, when someone might come and burn the village at gunpoint or carry off the roofing sheets. And that is a true sense of security - knowing that the roof will stay on your house until it finally rusts away. From Our Own Correspondent was broadcast on Saturday, 12 May, 2007 at 1130 BST on BBC Radio 4. Please check the for World Service transmission times. E-mail this to a friend Personal reflections by BBC correspondents around the world SEARCH FROM OUR OWN CORRESPONDENT: Three Ways to Listen From Our Own Correspondent 28 Feb 07 | Country profiles Liberia: A year of slow progress 16 Jan 07 | Africa In pictures: Liberia, one year on 16 Jan 07 | In Pictures MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Get slim on the office treadmill Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris Free tool offers 'easy' coding Spielberg 'to make Tintin movie' Gaza faction boosts police ranks Most popular now, in detail 'No evidence' for Algarve arrest US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies New doubt cast on Woolmer murder New Media Home: The Conclusion Queen 'must be quizzed on Diana' Most popular now, in detail Can the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out...
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/africa/6656551.stm	BBC NEWS | World | Africa | Gaddafi to sue over health claims Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Tuesday, 15 May 2007, 07:18 GMT 08:18 UK E-mail this to a friend Gaddafi to sue over health claims Col Gaddafi has had a tense relationship with some Arab states The Libyan leader, Colonel Muammar Gaddafi, has said he will sue a Palestinian news agency for making false claims about his health. The news report on Monday quoted an unnamed European source, saying that Col Gaddafi was in a coma in a hospital in the coastal town of Benghazi. Speaking to journalists in Tripoli, he appeared well and blamed members of the Arab world for the error. The news agency has apologised for the mistake, blaming an unreliable source. The Arabs and those who control them are behind this, but we are going to sue this news agency - from now on, no-one will lie and get away with it The Libyan leader looked well and far from being in a coma as he stepped out for cameras outside a banqueting hall in a hotel where he hosted the Ghanaian President, John Kufuor. The media was clearly invited to dispel earlier reports alleging that Col Gaddafi was in a coma after suffering from a blood clot in his brain. Where does Arab Nationalism stand today? Emilio, New York, US Click here to send your question for Col Gaddafi The Libyan leader was visibly annoyed with the false claims as he pointed the finger at the Arab world and demanded legal justice. "The Arabs and those who control them are behind this. But we are going to sue this news agency. From now on, no-one will lie and get away with it. They should face justice. "We should fire at those who fire at us and we should consider ourselves the enemy of those who say they are our enemy," he said. In the 1990s, Col Gaddafi was dismayed that the Arab world had abandoned Libya when international sanctions were imposed on the country and repeatedly declared that he has divorced the Arabs. In the past few years, he has had a tense relationship with some Arab states, particularly Saudi Arabia. Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas reportedly called the Libyan leader and spoke to him. This was followed by a report from the Palestinian agency in which it apologised for the confusion that their claims about his health had caused, citing an unreliable source as their mistake. It remains to be seen whether this latest apology will bear any weight on the Libyan leader's decision to legally pursue them. E-mail this to a friend LIBYA COMES IN FROM THE COLD Libya marks Gaddafi anniversary HIV medics in Libya deny slander Gaddafi in Nigeria airport drama Gaddafi warns revolution enemies How the veteran leader's rule has shaped a nation A history of Libya's US ties Washington's Libyan fairy tale Colonel gets his reward Ethiopia warned on Somali pullout Cameroon's crash pilot 'warned' Locals seize Nigeria oil facility MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris Get slim on the office treadmill Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat Free tool offers 'easy' coding Happiness wins science book prize Most popular now, in detail 'No evidence' for Algarve arrest New doubt cast on Woolmer murder US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies New Media Home: The Conclusion Queen 'must be quizzed on Diana' Most popular now, in detail Can the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out... Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/africa/6656551.stm	BBC NEWS | World | Africa | Gaddafi to sue over health claims Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Tuesday, 15 May 2007, 07:18 GMT 08:18 UK E-mail this to a friend Gaddafi to sue over health claims Col Gaddafi has had a tense relationship with some Arab states The Libyan leader, Colonel Muammar Gaddafi, has said he will sue a Palestinian news agency for making false claims about his health. The news report on Monday quoted an unnamed European source, saying that Col Gaddafi was in a coma in a hospital in the coastal town of Benghazi. Speaking to journalists in Tripoli, he appeared well and blamed members of the Arab world for the error. The news agency has apologised for the mistake, blaming an unreliable source. The Arabs and those who control them are behind this, but we are going to sue this news agency - from now on, no-one will lie and get away with it The Libyan leader looked well and far from being in a coma as he stepped out for cameras outside a banqueting hall in a hotel where he hosted the Ghanaian President, John Kufuor. The media was clearly invited to dispel earlier reports alleging that Col Gaddafi was in a coma after suffering from a blood clot in his brain. Where does Arab Nationalism stand today? Emilio, New York, US Click here to send your question for Col Gaddafi The Libyan leader was visibly annoyed with the false claims as he pointed the finger at the Arab world and demanded legal justice. "The Arabs and those who control them are behind this. But we are going to sue this news agency. From now on, no-one will lie and get away with it. They should face justice. "We should fire at those who fire at us and we should consider ourselves the enemy of those who say they are our enemy," he said. In the 1990s, Col Gaddafi was dismayed that the Arab world had abandoned Libya when international sanctions were imposed on the country and repeatedly declared that he has divorced the Arabs. In the past few years, he has had a tense relationship with some Arab states, particularly Saudi Arabia. Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas reportedly called the Libyan leader and spoke to him. This was followed by a report from the Palestinian agency in which it apologised for the confusion that their claims about his health had caused, citing an unreliable source as their mistake. It remains to be seen whether this latest apology will bear any weight on the Libyan leader's decision to legally pursue them. E-mail this to a friend LIBYA COMES IN FROM THE COLD Libya marks Gaddafi anniversary HIV medics in Libya deny slander Gaddafi in Nigeria airport drama Gaddafi warns revolution enemies How the veteran leader's rule has shaped a nation A history of Libya's US ties Washington's Libyan fairy tale Colonel gets his reward Ethiopia warned on Somali pullout Cameroon's crash pilot 'warned' Locals seize Nigeria oil facility MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris Get slim on the office treadmill Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat Free tool offers 'easy' coding Happiness wins science book prize Most popular now, in detail 'No evidence' for Algarve arrest New doubt cast on Woolmer murder US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies New Media Home: The Conclusion Queen 'must be quizzed on Diana' Most popular now, in detail Can the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out... Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/sport1/hi/football/eng_prem/6657697.stm	BBC SPORT | Football | Premiership | Fifa chief wades into Tevez saga Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Match of the Day Tuesday, 15 May 2007, 14:33 GMT 15:33 UK E-mail this to a friend Fifa chief wades into Tevez saga The West Ham saga has prompted concern from Fifa Fifa president Sepp Blatter says he will look into how the Premier League handled West Ham's breach of rules. West Ham were fined £5.5m for irregularities over the signing of Carlos Tevez and Javier Mascherano but they escaped a points deduction. Blatter said he is "monitoring the situation very carefully". But Fifa has told BBC Five Live Sport that it is not re-examining the evidence with the aim of testing the Premier League's ruling. West Ham broke two Premier League rules by entering into a private agreement with a third-party company when they signed Argentine pair Tevez and Mascherano in August last year. What do you think Fifa are going to do? Mascherano has since moved to Liverpool, while Tevez stayed in London and played an influential role in West Ham's successful battle against relegation - scoring seven goals in the club's last 10 games. Sheffield United, who went down on the final day of the season, are leading the fight against an independent commission's decision not to punish the Hammers with a points deduction. The Blades, who are being supported by the likes of Wigan, Fulham, Charlton and Middlesbrough, are also concerned that West Ham may still have been breaking Premier League rules after the ruling on 27 April. The Premier League has argued that it has no case to answer in regards to West Ham's punishment because all 20 Premiership clubs agreed to the disciplinary system in place. However, that has not stopped Sheffield United pursuing their case and Blatter's intervention may encourage them. A Premier League statement later read: "We have implemented our rulebook and processes to the letter in this matter and we are more than happy to give Fifa any assurances or explanations they need." West Ham did 'cancel' Tevez deal 14 May 07 | Premiership Whelan calls for new Tevez charge 14 May 07 | Premiership 09 May 07 | Premiership Wigan 0-3 West Ham 28 Apr 07 | Premiership West Ham not to appeal over fine 09 May 07 | West Ham Utd Clubs warned over Tevez legal bid 09 May 07 | Premiership Lamb baffled at Hammers ruling 09 May 07 | Middlesbrough Quartet may fight West Ham ruling 04 May 07 | Premiership West Ham receive Tevez clearance 28 Apr 07 | West Ham Utd West Ham handed record £5.5m fine 27 Apr 07 | West Ham Utd Football on the BBC Your say - 606 Radio Five Live commentaries BBC Sport club pages The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites BBC PRODUCTS AND SERVICES Daily and weekly e-mails Back to top ^^ Privacy & Cookies Policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/sport1/hi/football/eng_prem/6657697.stm	BBC SPORT | Football | Premiership | Fifa chief wades into Tevez saga Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Match of the Day Tuesday, 15 May 2007, 14:33 GMT 15:33 UK E-mail this to a friend Fifa chief wades into Tevez saga The West Ham saga has prompted concern from Fifa Fifa president Sepp Blatter says he will look into how the Premier League handled West Ham's breach of rules. West Ham were fined £5.5m for irregularities over the signing of Carlos Tevez and Javier Mascherano but they escaped a points deduction. Blatter said he is "monitoring the situation very carefully". But Fifa has told BBC Five Live Sport that it is not re-examining the evidence with the aim of testing the Premier League's ruling. West Ham broke two Premier League rules by entering into a private agreement with a third-party company when they signed Argentine pair Tevez and Mascherano in August last year. What do you think Fifa are going to do? Mascherano has since moved to Liverpool, while Tevez stayed in London and played an influential role in West Ham's successful battle against relegation - scoring seven goals in the club's last 10 games. Sheffield United, who went down on the final day of the season, are leading the fight against an independent commission's decision not to punish the Hammers with a points deduction. The Blades, who are being supported by the likes of Wigan, Fulham, Charlton and Middlesbrough, are also concerned that West Ham may still have been breaking Premier League rules after the ruling on 27 April. The Premier League has argued that it has no case to answer in regards to West Ham's punishment because all 20 Premiership clubs agreed to the disciplinary system in place. However, that has not stopped Sheffield United pursuing their case and Blatter's intervention may encourage them. A Premier League statement later read: "We have implemented our rulebook and processes to the letter in this matter and we are more than happy to give Fifa any assurances or explanations they need." West Ham did 'cancel' Tevez deal 14 May 07 | Premiership Whelan calls for new Tevez charge 14 May 07 | Premiership 09 May 07 | Premiership Wigan 0-3 West Ham 28 Apr 07 | Premiership West Ham not to appeal over fine 09 May 07 | West Ham Utd Clubs warned over Tevez legal bid 09 May 07 | Premiership Lamb baffled at Hammers ruling 09 May 07 | Middlesbrough Quartet may fight West Ham ruling 04 May 07 | Premiership West Ham receive Tevez clearance 28 Apr 07 | West Ham Utd West Ham handed record £5.5m fine 27 Apr 07 | West Ham Utd Football on the BBC Your say - 606 Radio Five Live commentaries BBC Sport club pages The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites BBC PRODUCTS AND SERVICES Daily and weekly e-mails Back to top ^^ Privacy & Cookies Policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/middle_east/6658799.stm	BBC NEWS | World | Middle East | Israel Jerusalem policy condemned Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Tuesday, 15 May 2007, 15:50 GMT 16:50 UK E-mail this to a friend Israel Jerusalem policy condemned Israel has built an outer ring of settlements around East Jerusalem The international Red Cross has privately accused Israel of reshaping Jerusalem to further its own interests, in violation of international law. A leaked ICRC report says Israeli policy has far-reaching humanitarian consequences for Palestinians living under occupation in East Jerusalem. Israel captured East Jerusalem in 1967, and the territory is regarded as occupied land under international law. But Israel rejects this, and says the report's premise is, therefore, wrong. The report says Israel shows "general disregard" for its obligations under international humanitarian law and the law of military occupation in particular. Violations that change the status of East Jerusalem include the West Bank barrier, an outer ring of Jewish settlements around the city and roads to connect Israeli districts and settlements, the report says. An ICRC spokesman confirmed that leaked quotations in a US newspaper were from a confidential report transmitted in February 2007 to Israel and some other governments. The leak comes a day before Israel marks 40 years, according to the Jewish calendar, since its capture of East Jerusalem from Jordanian control, in the 1967 war. "We reject the premise of the report," said Israeli foreign ministry spokesman Mark Regev. "East Jerusalem is not occupied land, it is part of Israel. All people there were offered full Israeli citizenship." Israel's unilateral moves in Jerusalem have been condemned by several UN Security Council Resolutions. US and EU ambassadors have boycotted ceremonies in the run-up to Israel's Jerusalem Day on Wednesday, arguing that the status of the city should be determined by negotiations with the Palestinians. E-mail this to a friend Gaza faction boosts police ranks Gaza factions 'agree new truce' UK Palestinians in Johnston plea BBC's Johnston wins press award Weapons and bullets, not politicians, are doing the talking in Gaza 'Wake-up call' for Israel Wave of discontent in Israel Timeline: Alan Johnston missing Palestinian rivals: Fatah & Hamas Israeli views on Halutz International Committee of the Red Cross The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites TOP MIDDLE EAST STORIES Gaza faction boosts police ranks Iran 'steps up nuclear work' Israel Jerusalem policy condemned MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Get slim on the office treadmill Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris Free tool offers 'easy' coding Spielberg 'to make Tintin movie' Gaza faction boosts police ranks Most popular now, in detail 'No evidence' for Algarve arrest US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies New doubt cast on Woolmer murder New Media Home: The Conclusion Queen 'must be quizzed on Diana' Most popular now, in detail Can the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out... Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/middle_east/6658799.stm	BBC NEWS | World | Middle East | Israel Jerusalem policy condemned Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Tuesday, 15 May 2007, 15:50 GMT 16:50 UK E-mail this to a friend Israel Jerusalem policy condemned Israel has built an outer ring of settlements around East Jerusalem The international Red Cross has privately accused Israel of reshaping Jerusalem to further its own interests, in violation of international law. A leaked ICRC report says Israeli policy has far-reaching humanitarian consequences for Palestinians living under occupation in East Jerusalem. Israel captured East Jerusalem in 1967, and the territory is regarded as occupied land under international law. But Israel rejects this, and says the report's premise is, therefore, wrong. The report says Israel shows "general disregard" for its obligations under international humanitarian law and the law of military occupation in particular. Violations that change the status of East Jerusalem include the West Bank barrier, an outer ring of Jewish settlements around the city and roads to connect Israeli districts and settlements, the report says. An ICRC spokesman confirmed that leaked quotations in a US newspaper were from a confidential report transmitted in February 2007 to Israel and some other governments. The leak comes a day before Israel marks 40 years, according to the Jewish calendar, since its capture of East Jerusalem from Jordanian control, in the 1967 war. "We reject the premise of the report," said Israeli foreign ministry spokesman Mark Regev. "East Jerusalem is not occupied land, it is part of Israel. All people there were offered full Israeli citizenship." Israel's unilateral moves in Jerusalem have been condemned by several UN Security Council Resolutions. US and EU ambassadors have boycotted ceremonies in the run-up to Israel's Jerusalem Day on Wednesday, arguing that the status of the city should be determined by negotiations with the Palestinians. E-mail this to a friend Gaza faction boosts police ranks Gaza factions 'agree new truce' UK Palestinians in Johnston plea BBC's Johnston wins press award Weapons and bullets, not politicians, are doing the talking in Gaza 'Wake-up call' for Israel Wave of discontent in Israel Timeline: Alan Johnston missing Palestinian rivals: Fatah & Hamas Israeli views on Halutz International Committee of the Red Cross The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites TOP MIDDLE EAST STORIES Gaza faction boosts police ranks Iran 'steps up nuclear work' Israel Jerusalem policy condemned MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Get slim on the office treadmill Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris Free tool offers 'easy' coding Spielberg 'to make Tintin movie' Gaza faction boosts police ranks Most popular now, in detail 'No evidence' for Algarve arrest US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies New doubt cast on Woolmer murder New Media Home: The Conclusion Queen 'must be quizzed on Diana' Most popular now, in detail Can the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out... Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/americas/6659585.stm	BBC NEWS | World | Americas | US detainee 'mentally tortured' Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Tuesday, 15 May 2007, 19:05 GMT 20:05 UK E-mail this to a friend US detainee 'mentally tortured' Mr Khan denies having links to al-Qaeda or Islamist extremists A Pakistani-born US resident detained at Guantanamo Bay has said he was "mentally tortured" there, according to a transcript released by the Pentagon. Majid Khan, who has been accused of planning to blow up petrol stations in the US, also described how he tried to commit suicide by chewing on an artery. Mr Khan presented a Statement of Torture to the US military tribunal reviewing his "enemy combatant" status. He was among 14 "high-value" detainees moved to Guantanamo Bay in September. The men were previously held in secret CIA prisons but are now being detained in a maximum security wing at the base in Cuba. Mr Khan moved to the US in the late 1990s, where he went to high school in Baltimore. The US government says that, on his return to Pakistan, family members introduced him to senior al-Qaeda leader Khalid Sheikh Mohammed. He is also accused of having links with fellow Guantanamo detainee Ali Abd al-Aziz Ali, and of passing money to the Islamist militant group, Jemaah Islamiah (JI). At the tribunal at Guantanamo Bay on 15 April, Mr Khan denied he had any connection with Islamist militant groups such as al-Qaeda. There is extensive torture even for the smallest of infractions Key US terror suspects "I am not an enemy combatant," he asserted. "I am not an extremist." "I have never been to Afghanistan and I have never met Osama bin Laden." Afterwards, Mr Khan's personal representative read out a written statement, in which he alleged psychological torture. "I swear to God this place in some sense worst than CIA jails. I am being mentally torture here," he said. "There is extensive torture even for the smallest of infractions." Mr Khan complained about how US guards had taken away pictures of his daughter, given him new glasses with the wrong prescription, shaved his beard off, forcibly fed him when he went on hunger strike, and denied him the opportunity for recreation. This led him to attempt to chew through his artery twice, Mr Khan said. Later, Mr Khan produced a list of further examples of psychological torture, which included the provision of "cheap, branded, unscented soap", the prison newsletter, noisy fans and half-inflated balls in the recreation room that "hardly bounce". E-mail this to a friend US detainee 'mentally tortured' Court rejects Guantanamo test Hicks gets Guantanamo plea deal Terror suspect 'tortured by US' USS Cole suspect 'admits guilt' KS Mohammed's '31 plots' The 14 key detainees Black hole or vital tool? Paul Reynolds looks at the issues surrounding the camp five years on How the camp has evolved New rules of treatment UN report in full (337k) US to ignore Russia missile fears Brazilian guilty of US nun murder US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris Get slim on the office treadmill Free tool offers 'easy' coding Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies Most popular now, in detail 'No evidence' for Algarve arrest US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies New doubt cast on Woolmer murder New Media Home: The Conclusion Queen 'must be quizzed on Diana' Most popular now, in detail Can the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out... Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/americas/6659585.stm	BBC NEWS | World | Americas | US detainee 'mentally tortured' Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Tuesday, 15 May 2007, 19:05 GMT 20:05 UK E-mail this to a friend US detainee 'mentally tortured' Mr Khan denies having links to al-Qaeda or Islamist extremists A Pakistani-born US resident detained at Guantanamo Bay has said he was "mentally tortured" there, according to a transcript released by the Pentagon. Majid Khan, who has been accused of planning to blow up petrol stations in the US, also described how he tried to commit suicide by chewing on an artery. Mr Khan presented a Statement of Torture to the US military tribunal reviewing his "enemy combatant" status. He was among 14 "high-value" detainees moved to Guantanamo Bay in September. The men were previously held in secret CIA prisons but are now being detained in a maximum security wing at the base in Cuba. Mr Khan moved to the US in the late 1990s, where he went to high school in Baltimore. The US government says that, on his return to Pakistan, family members introduced him to senior al-Qaeda leader Khalid Sheikh Mohammed. He is also accused of having links with fellow Guantanamo detainee Ali Abd al-Aziz Ali, and of passing money to the Islamist militant group, Jemaah Islamiah (JI). At the tribunal at Guantanamo Bay on 15 April, Mr Khan denied he had any connection with Islamist militant groups such as al-Qaeda. There is extensive torture even for the smallest of infractions Key US terror suspects "I am not an enemy combatant," he asserted. "I am not an extremist." "I have never been to Afghanistan and I have never met Osama bin Laden." Afterwards, Mr Khan's personal representative read out a written statement, in which he alleged psychological torture. "I swear to God this place in some sense worst than CIA jails. I am being mentally torture here," he said. "There is extensive torture even for the smallest of infractions." Mr Khan complained about how US guards had taken away pictures of his daughter, given him new glasses with the wrong prescription, shaved his beard off, forcibly fed him when he went on hunger strike, and denied him the opportunity for recreation. This led him to attempt to chew through his artery twice, Mr Khan said. Later, Mr Khan produced a list of further examples of psychological torture, which included the provision of "cheap, branded, unscented soap", the prison newsletter, noisy fans and half-inflated balls in the recreation room that "hardly bounce". E-mail this to a friend US detainee 'mentally tortured' Court rejects Guantanamo test Hicks gets Guantanamo plea deal Terror suspect 'tortured by US' USS Cole suspect 'admits guilt' KS Mohammed's '31 plots' The 14 key detainees Black hole or vital tool? Paul Reynolds looks at the issues surrounding the camp five years on How the camp has evolved New rules of treatment UN report in full (337k) US to ignore Russia missile fears Brazilian guilty of US nun murder US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris Get slim on the office treadmill Free tool offers 'easy' coding Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies Most popular now, in detail 'No evidence' for Algarve arrest US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies New doubt cast on Woolmer murder New Media Home: The Conclusion Queen 'must be quizzed on Diana' Most popular now, in detail Can the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out... Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/south_asia/6659461.stm	BBC NEWS | World | South Asia | India eyes north-east oil and gas Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Tuesday, 15 May 2007, 17:45 GMT 18:45 UK E-mail this to a friend India eyes north-east oil and gas India's state-owned Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC) is to invest nearly 90bn rupees ($2bn) in oil and gas projects in the country's north-east. ONGC chairman RS Sharma made the announcement during a tour of the region on Tuesday. He said the corporation would drill 140 oil wells in Assam and more than 80 in other states over the next five years. Most oil wells in Assam are several decades old and ONGC wants to modernise as well as find new deposits, he said. "We will involve top global companies like Halliburton to help us in the Assam renewal project. We want to reverse the trend of declining output from matured oil fields in Assam," said Mr Sharma. The ONGC, which produces about 1.6m tonnes of crude oil annually in Assam, hopes to nearly double its production with the additional investments. Indian troops face separatist insurgencies in many states "We expect to produce about 3m tonnes of crude oil with the investments used in drilling wells and associated pipelines, besides revamping existing facilities," Mr Sharma told journalists in Assam's capital, Guwahati. India produces about 30m tonnes of crude oil annually, with Assam accounting for about 5m tonnes of the total. Oil India Limited (OIL) produces about 3.5m tonnes of crude in Assam annually. Assam has more than 1.3bn tonnes of proven crude oil and 156bn cubic metres of natural gas reserves, more than half of which are yet to be explored. The state accounts for nearly 50% of the country's on-shore crude oil production. "Assam has the highest success ratio in the world with 70% of the exploration sites yielding oil," said ONGC's director of exploration DK Pande. The ONGC will also start exploration in Nagaland state by October this year after more than a decade. It was forced to stop operations in the mid-1990s after separatist rebels threatened to attack its facilities. The rebels are now negotiating with the Indian government. The ONGC will also start drilling several wells in Mizoram state on the border with Burma this year. These blocks are said to be rich in both oil and gas. E-mail this to a friend Pipelines damaged in India blasts 10 Jun 06 | South Asia The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites TOP SOUTH ASIA STORIES Many killed in Pakistan bombing New doubt cast on Woolmer murder India eyes north-east oil and gas MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Get slim on the office treadmill Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris Free tool offers 'easy' coding Spielberg 'to make Tintin movie' Gaza faction boosts police ranks Most popular now, in detail 'No evidence' for Algarve arrest US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies New doubt cast on Woolmer murder New Media Home: The Conclusion Queen 'must be quizzed on Diana' Most popular now, in detail Can the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out... Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/south_asia/6659461.stm	BBC NEWS | World | South Asia | India eyes north-east oil and gas Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Tuesday, 15 May 2007, 17:45 GMT 18:45 UK E-mail this to a friend India eyes north-east oil and gas India's state-owned Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC) is to invest nearly 90bn rupees ($2bn) in oil and gas projects in the country's north-east. ONGC chairman RS Sharma made the announcement during a tour of the region on Tuesday. He said the corporation would drill 140 oil wells in Assam and more than 80 in other states over the next five years. Most oil wells in Assam are several decades old and ONGC wants to modernise as well as find new deposits, he said. "We will involve top global companies like Halliburton to help us in the Assam renewal project. We want to reverse the trend of declining output from matured oil fields in Assam," said Mr Sharma. The ONGC, which produces about 1.6m tonnes of crude oil annually in Assam, hopes to nearly double its production with the additional investments. Indian troops face separatist insurgencies in many states "We expect to produce about 3m tonnes of crude oil with the investments used in drilling wells and associated pipelines, besides revamping existing facilities," Mr Sharma told journalists in Assam's capital, Guwahati. India produces about 30m tonnes of crude oil annually, with Assam accounting for about 5m tonnes of the total. Oil India Limited (OIL) produces about 3.5m tonnes of crude in Assam annually. Assam has more than 1.3bn tonnes of proven crude oil and 156bn cubic metres of natural gas reserves, more than half of which are yet to be explored. The state accounts for nearly 50% of the country's on-shore crude oil production. "Assam has the highest success ratio in the world with 70% of the exploration sites yielding oil," said ONGC's director of exploration DK Pande. The ONGC will also start exploration in Nagaland state by October this year after more than a decade. It was forced to stop operations in the mid-1990s after separatist rebels threatened to attack its facilities. The rebels are now negotiating with the Indian government. The ONGC will also start drilling several wells in Mizoram state on the border with Burma this year. These blocks are said to be rich in both oil and gas. E-mail this to a friend Pipelines damaged in India blasts 10 Jun 06 | South Asia The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites TOP SOUTH ASIA STORIES Many killed in Pakistan bombing New doubt cast on Woolmer murder India eyes north-east oil and gas MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Get slim on the office treadmill Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris Free tool offers 'easy' coding Spielberg 'to make Tintin movie' Gaza faction boosts police ranks Most popular now, in detail 'No evidence' for Algarve arrest US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies New doubt cast on Woolmer murder New Media Home: The Conclusion Queen 'must be quizzed on Diana' Most popular now, in detail Can the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out... Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/world/europe/6657981.stm	BBC NEWS | World | Europe | EU close to roaming charge deal Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Tuesday, 15 May 2007, 16:56 GMT 17:56 UK E-mail this to a friend EU close to roaming charge deal Roaming charges are now as high as one euro per minute European Union member states and members of the European Parliament have reached a preliminary deal on cutting mobile roaming charges. Under the deal, it would cost a maximum of 49 euro cents (£0.34, $0.66) to call home from another EU state, and 24 cents to receive a call. These caps would drop a little in 2008, and more in 2009. If MEPs and European telecoms ministers formally back the deal the new prices could come into force over the summer. A vote is expected next Wednesday in the European Parliament, while telecoms ministers are due to consider the package on 7 June. The European Commission warned the industry in 2004 that it was overcharging customers for roaming, and presented its plan to cap prices last year. Roaming in the EU can often cost one euro a minute. A Maltese calling home from Latvia can pay as much as 11.21 euros (£7.68) for a four-minute conversation. c German EU presidency: c German EU presidency: Charges per minute, excluding VAT Case study: EU roaming law The EU's German presidency had pushed for price caps of 60 cents to make a call, and 30 cents to receive one. The European Parliament originally wanted caps of 40 cents and 15 cents. "I hope this package can deliver for consumers this summer," said Austrian MEP Paul Ruebig, who led the negotiations for the parliament. British MEP Giles Chichester said he expected operators to compete with each other to be the first to offer the new rate. "I would be astonished if mobile operators do not take the hint," he said. Telephone companies will have one month from the time the regulation is published in the official journal - probably in mid-June - to offer customers the new pricing plan. So consumers will be able to enjoy the new rates in mid-July if they reply to the offer promptly. Three months after the regulation comes into force, consumers will be switched to the new rate automatically, unless they have deliberately chosen a different package. The price ceilings would drop in 2008 to 46 cents for making calls abroad and 22 cents for receiving them, the negotiators agreed. In 2009 they would drop further, to 43 cents and 19 cents respectively. After three years, the caps would be lifted. The telecoms industry has warned that mobile phone users in Europe could face higher domestic charges, if roaming charges are forced down too much. "We're disappointed. The price caps are very low, they leave no room for competition below those levels. They will become the standard tariff," said David Pringle, spokesman for the GSM Association, which groups together Europe's mobile phone operators. He added that informing all customers of their tariff choices would be a "huge exercise in logistics". E-mail this to a friend EU close to roaming charge deal EU states start tussle on treaty EU welcomes Malta bird reprieve MEPs demand new lorry mirrors Cold War workers challenge Denmark over B52 crash Time to tax the carbon dodgers Guide to the best euromyths Mark Mardell on how to judge Tony Blair by his European allies THE UK AND EUROPE EU changes rules on bread sizes Group claims EU imperial victory UK attacked over savings scandal A timeline of the EU Q&A: EU constitution's future Get the latest breaking news delivered to your desktop or mobile device US to ignore Russia missile fears Chirac bids farewell urging unity 'No evidence' for Algarve arrest MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris Get slim on the office treadmill Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat Free tool offers 'easy' coding Happiness wins science book prize Most popular now, in detail 'No evidence' for Algarve arrest New doubt cast on Woolmer murder US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies New Media Home: The Conclusion Queen 'must be quizzed on Diana' Most popular now, in detail Can the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out... Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/world/europe/6657981.stm	BBC NEWS | World | Europe | EU close to roaming charge deal Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Tuesday, 15 May 2007, 16:56 GMT 17:56 UK E-mail this to a friend EU close to roaming charge deal Roaming charges are now as high as one euro per minute European Union member states and members of the European Parliament have reached a preliminary deal on cutting mobile roaming charges. Under the deal, it would cost a maximum of 49 euro cents (£0.34, $0.66) to call home from another EU state, and 24 cents to receive a call. These caps would drop a little in 2008, and more in 2009. If MEPs and European telecoms ministers formally back the deal the new prices could come into force over the summer. A vote is expected next Wednesday in the European Parliament, while telecoms ministers are due to consider the package on 7 June. The European Commission warned the industry in 2004 that it was overcharging customers for roaming, and presented its plan to cap prices last year. Roaming in the EU can often cost one euro a minute. A Maltese calling home from Latvia can pay as much as 11.21 euros (£7.68) for a four-minute conversation. c German EU presidency: c German EU presidency: Charges per minute, excluding VAT Case study: EU roaming law The EU's German presidency had pushed for price caps of 60 cents to make a call, and 30 cents to receive one. The European Parliament originally wanted caps of 40 cents and 15 cents. "I hope this package can deliver for consumers this summer," said Austrian MEP Paul Ruebig, who led the negotiations for the parliament. British MEP Giles Chichester said he expected operators to compete with each other to be the first to offer the new rate. "I would be astonished if mobile operators do not take the hint," he said. Telephone companies will have one month from the time the regulation is published in the official journal - probably in mid-June - to offer customers the new pricing plan. So consumers will be able to enjoy the new rates in mid-July if they reply to the offer promptly. Three months after the regulation comes into force, consumers will be switched to the new rate automatically, unless they have deliberately chosen a different package. The price ceilings would drop in 2008 to 46 cents for making calls abroad and 22 cents for receiving them, the negotiators agreed. In 2009 they would drop further, to 43 cents and 19 cents respectively. After three years, the caps would be lifted. The telecoms industry has warned that mobile phone users in Europe could face higher domestic charges, if roaming charges are forced down too much. "We're disappointed. The price caps are very low, they leave no room for competition below those levels. They will become the standard tariff," said David Pringle, spokesman for the GSM Association, which groups together Europe's mobile phone operators. He added that informing all customers of their tariff choices would be a "huge exercise in logistics". E-mail this to a friend EU close to roaming charge deal EU states start tussle on treaty EU welcomes Malta bird reprieve MEPs demand new lorry mirrors Cold War workers challenge Denmark over B52 crash Time to tax the carbon dodgers Guide to the best euromyths Mark Mardell on how to judge Tony Blair by his European allies THE UK AND EUROPE EU changes rules on bread sizes Group claims EU imperial victory UK attacked over savings scandal A timeline of the EU Q&A: EU constitution's future Get the latest breaking news delivered to your desktop or mobile device US to ignore Russia missile fears Chirac bids farewell urging unity 'No evidence' for Algarve arrest MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris Get slim on the office treadmill Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat Free tool offers 'easy' coding Happiness wins science book prize Most popular now, in detail 'No evidence' for Algarve arrest New doubt cast on Woolmer murder US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies New Media Home: The Conclusion Queen 'must be quizzed on Diana' Most popular now, in detail Can the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out... Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/world/africa/6656551.stm	BBC NEWS | World | Africa | Gaddafi to sue over health claims Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Tuesday, 15 May 2007, 07:18 GMT 08:18 UK E-mail this to a friend Gaddafi to sue over health claims Col Gaddafi has had a tense relationship with some Arab states The Libyan leader, Colonel Muammar Gaddafi, has said he will sue a Palestinian news agency for making false claims about his health. The news report on Monday quoted an unnamed European source, saying that Col Gaddafi was in a coma in a hospital in the coastal town of Benghazi. Speaking to journalists in Tripoli, he appeared well and blamed members of the Arab world for the error. The news agency has apologised for the mistake, blaming an unreliable source. The Arabs and those who control them are behind this, but we are going to sue this news agency - from now on, no-one will lie and get away with it The Libyan leader looked well and far from being in a coma as he stepped out for cameras outside a banqueting hall in a hotel where he hosted the Ghanaian President, John Kufuor. The media was clearly invited to dispel earlier reports alleging that Col Gaddafi was in a coma after suffering from a blood clot in his brain. Where does Arab Nationalism stand today? Emilio, New York, US Click here to send your question for Col Gaddafi The Libyan leader was visibly annoyed with the false claims as he pointed the finger at the Arab world and demanded legal justice. "The Arabs and those who control them are behind this. But we are going to sue this news agency. From now on, no-one will lie and get away with it. They should face justice. "We should fire at those who fire at us and we should consider ourselves the enemy of those who say they are our enemy," he said. In the 1990s, Col Gaddafi was dismayed that the Arab world had abandoned Libya when international sanctions were imposed on the country and repeatedly declared that he has divorced the Arabs. In the past few years, he has had a tense relationship with some Arab states, particularly Saudi Arabia. Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas reportedly called the Libyan leader and spoke to him. This was followed by a report from the Palestinian agency in which it apologised for the confusion that their claims about his health had caused, citing an unreliable source as their mistake. It remains to be seen whether this latest apology will bear any weight on the Libyan leader's decision to legally pursue them. E-mail this to a friend LIBYA COMES IN FROM THE COLD Libya marks Gaddafi anniversary HIV medics in Libya deny slander Gaddafi in Nigeria airport drama Gaddafi warns revolution enemies How the veteran leader's rule has shaped a nation A history of Libya's US ties Washington's Libyan fairy tale Colonel gets his reward Ethiopia warned on Somali pullout Cameroon's crash pilot 'warned' Locals seize Nigeria oil facility MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Get slim on the office treadmill Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris Free tool offers 'easy' coding Spielberg 'to make Tintin movie' Gaza faction boosts police ranks Most popular now, in detail 'No evidence' for Algarve arrest US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies New doubt cast on Woolmer murder New Media Home: The Conclusion Queen 'must be quizzed on Diana' Most popular now, in detail Can the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out... Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/world/africa/6656551.stm	BBC NEWS | World | Africa | Gaddafi to sue over health claims Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Tuesday, 15 May 2007, 07:18 GMT 08:18 UK E-mail this to a friend Gaddafi to sue over health claims Col Gaddafi has had a tense relationship with some Arab states The Libyan leader, Colonel Muammar Gaddafi, has said he will sue a Palestinian news agency for making false claims about his health. The news report on Monday quoted an unnamed European source, saying that Col Gaddafi was in a coma in a hospital in the coastal town of Benghazi. Speaking to journalists in Tripoli, he appeared well and blamed members of the Arab world for the error. The news agency has apologised for the mistake, blaming an unreliable source. The Arabs and those who control them are behind this, but we are going to sue this news agency - from now on, no-one will lie and get away with it The Libyan leader looked well and far from being in a coma as he stepped out for cameras outside a banqueting hall in a hotel where he hosted the Ghanaian President, John Kufuor. The media was clearly invited to dispel earlier reports alleging that Col Gaddafi was in a coma after suffering from a blood clot in his brain. Where does Arab Nationalism stand today? Emilio, New York, US Click here to send your question for Col Gaddafi The Libyan leader was visibly annoyed with the false claims as he pointed the finger at the Arab world and demanded legal justice. "The Arabs and those who control them are behind this. But we are going to sue this news agency. From now on, no-one will lie and get away with it. They should face justice. "We should fire at those who fire at us and we should consider ourselves the enemy of those who say they are our enemy," he said. In the 1990s, Col Gaddafi was dismayed that the Arab world had abandoned Libya when international sanctions were imposed on the country and repeatedly declared that he has divorced the Arabs. In the past few years, he has had a tense relationship with some Arab states, particularly Saudi Arabia. Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas reportedly called the Libyan leader and spoke to him. This was followed by a report from the Palestinian agency in which it apologised for the confusion that their claims about his health had caused, citing an unreliable source as their mistake. It remains to be seen whether this latest apology will bear any weight on the Libyan leader's decision to legally pursue them. E-mail this to a friend LIBYA COMES IN FROM THE COLD Libya marks Gaddafi anniversary HIV medics in Libya deny slander Gaddafi in Nigeria airport drama Gaddafi warns revolution enemies How the veteran leader's rule has shaped a nation A history of Libya's US ties Washington's Libyan fairy tale Colonel gets his reward Ethiopia warned on Somali pullout Cameroon's crash pilot 'warned' Locals seize Nigeria oil facility MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Get slim on the office treadmill Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris Free tool offers 'easy' coding Spielberg 'to make Tintin movie' Gaza faction boosts police ranks Most popular now, in detail 'No evidence' for Algarve arrest US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies New doubt cast on Woolmer murder New Media Home: The Conclusion Queen 'must be quizzed on Diana' Most popular now, in detail Can the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out... Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/programmes/from_our_own_correspondent/6646115.stm	BBC NEWS | Programmes | From Our Own Correspondent | A pygmy conference in the rainforest Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Saturday, 12 May 2007, 10:45 GMT 11:45 UK E-mail this to a friend A pygmy conference in the rainforest BBC News, Republic of Congo It was 0830 in the morning when I clambered out of the cab of the battered French 10-wheeled truck, wiped the sweat off my forehead with an already soaked shirt-sleeve and looked for the nearest patch of shade. The first international forum for indigenous peoples in Impfondo I had flagged down the truck to hitch a lift to the pygmy meeting, but I found myself deposited on a mud road in a tropical jungle. My skin was already burning. The first clue to the location of the conference was the chanting which drifted out of the rainforest. I headed towards it down a narrow track through the forest. Small figures flitted in and out of the trees on the path ahead. A few seconds later the trees parted to reveal a shaded clearing; on it, somewhat incongruously, a pile of white plastic chairs. Everything else around was clearly made from and in the tropical rainforest. Leaves had been bent and twisted and then shaped into small domed huts. Inside, children slept on, oblivious to the large circle of men and women shuffling, swaying and singing outside. The soundtrack was provided by the beat of drums, several taller than a man. I had arrived at the first international forum for indigenous peoples in the Congo basin. The delegates were from settlements of ancient forest peoples - many commonly called pygmies. Supplies can only reach Impfondo via the Oubangui river Some indigenous rainforest communities dislike the word pygmy, others maintain they are proud of it. They had come to the remote town of Impfondo in the far north of the Republic of Congo. There are no roads linking this place to the rest of Congo. Just the Oubangui river, which flows into the mighty Congo river just after it crosses into the southern hemisphere. For outsiders it is a daily battle to make a home here in the rainforest. Supplies can only be shipped in to Impfondo when the river is high enough or on the Soviet-era propeller planes that fly in from Brazzaville 500 miles (804 km) to the south. Electricity comes from the massive town generator, but only if there is enough oil. Congo-Brazzaville, as this country is often called, is much smaller than its neighbour, the Democratic Republic of Congo. But it is not small. It is roughly the size of Germany with a population of less than four million. The majority live in the two southern cities of Brazzaville and Pointe-noire; so the rest of the country has some of the most untouched forests in the world. These are the forests where outsiders came in waves for rubber, ivory, palm oil and timber. They may have thought this was a land untouched by human habitation, but it was in fact already home to thousands of pygmies. Ilundu Bulanbo Stephane is a Twa pygmy from South Kivu Most of your preconceptions about pygmies would vanish if you met Ilundu Bulanbo Stephane, a Twa pygmy from South Kivu in East of the Democratic Republic of Congo. He is not tall but when we first meet in the jungle I find he is sharply dressed in a grey suit and striped tie. As I take his photograph he jokes, in his polished French, "people don't expect to see pygmies wearing clothes like government ministers". He says there is a time and a place for everything. "It is good to wear traditional clothes in the village, but you can't wear a traditional loincloth in town or at school." As a delegate from Cameroon puts it, indigenous people from the forests of central Africa are the third world of the third world. Their way of life - hunting in the forest and moving from one spot to another - makes it tricky for them to take advantage of education and health services. Nearly everything at the conference was made from the rainforest Meanwhile the bureaucrats among the non-forest people find it difficult to deal with those born in a jungle, away from officialdom. So, for the pygmies, there are problems getting birth certificates, attending school, taking part in elections and playing an active role in the wider society. There is also the problem of exclusion from the forests, because of logging companies. And it is not uncommon to hear about others kept in slave-like employment, by neighbouring farmers who regard them as sub-human. So they have come to Impfondo on the Oubangui river to meet similar forest people from across central Africa to talk and to work out how to end discrimination. There is a willingness to modernise: in some areas they have even started using the latest global positioning satellite technology to map out their hunting grounds and sacred sites. There is also a strong appreciation of the role education can play in helping the communities fight for their rights in the outside world. "Of course we can take on new things that are good for us", says Stephane. "But our values are also good for the 21st Century", he says. "We are a peaceful, egalitarian people who share and live at peace with others. These are values we ask others to copy." From Our Own Correspondent was broadcast on Saturday, 12 March, 2007 at 1130 BST on BBC Radio 4. Please check the for World Service transmission times. E-mail this to a friend Personal reflections by BBC correspondents around the world SEARCH FROM OUR OWN CORRESPONDENT: Three Ways to Listen From Our Own Correspondent Forest pygmies heed spirit world 07 May 06 | Africa Pygmies flee after Burundi poll 08 Mar 05 | Africa DR Congo pygmies 'exterminated' 06 Jul 04 | Africa DR Congo pygmies appeal to UN 23 May 03 | Africa MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Get slim on the office treadmill Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris Free tool offers 'easy' coding Spielberg 'to make Tintin movie' Gaza faction boosts police ranks Most popular now, in detail 'No evidence' for Algarve arrest US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies New doubt cast on Woolmer murder New Media Home: The Conclusion Queen 'must be quizzed on Diana' Most popular now, in detail Can the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out...
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/programmes/from_our_own_correspondent/6646115.stm	BBC NEWS | Programmes | From Our Own Correspondent | A pygmy conference in the rainforest Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Saturday, 12 May 2007, 10:45 GMT 11:45 UK E-mail this to a friend A pygmy conference in the rainforest BBC News, Republic of Congo It was 0830 in the morning when I clambered out of the cab of the battered French 10-wheeled truck, wiped the sweat off my forehead with an already soaked shirt-sleeve and looked for the nearest patch of shade. The first international forum for indigenous peoples in Impfondo I had flagged down the truck to hitch a lift to the pygmy meeting, but I found myself deposited on a mud road in a tropical jungle. My skin was already burning. The first clue to the location of the conference was the chanting which drifted out of the rainforest. I headed towards it down a narrow track through the forest. Small figures flitted in and out of the trees on the path ahead. A few seconds later the trees parted to reveal a shaded clearing; on it, somewhat incongruously, a pile of white plastic chairs. Everything else around was clearly made from and in the tropical rainforest. Leaves had been bent and twisted and then shaped into small domed huts. Inside, children slept on, oblivious to the large circle of men and women shuffling, swaying and singing outside. The soundtrack was provided by the beat of drums, several taller than a man. I had arrived at the first international forum for indigenous peoples in the Congo basin. The delegates were from settlements of ancient forest peoples - many commonly called pygmies. Supplies can only reach Impfondo via the Oubangui river Some indigenous rainforest communities dislike the word pygmy, others maintain they are proud of it. They had come to the remote town of Impfondo in the far north of the Republic of Congo. There are no roads linking this place to the rest of Congo. Just the Oubangui river, which flows into the mighty Congo river just after it crosses into the southern hemisphere. For outsiders it is a daily battle to make a home here in the rainforest. Supplies can only be shipped in to Impfondo when the river is high enough or on the Soviet-era propeller planes that fly in from Brazzaville 500 miles (804 km) to the south. Electricity comes from the massive town generator, but only if there is enough oil. Congo-Brazzaville, as this country is often called, is much smaller than its neighbour, the Democratic Republic of Congo. But it is not small. It is roughly the size of Germany with a population of less than four million. The majority live in the two southern cities of Brazzaville and Pointe-noire; so the rest of the country has some of the most untouched forests in the world. These are the forests where outsiders came in waves for rubber, ivory, palm oil and timber. They may have thought this was a land untouched by human habitation, but it was in fact already home to thousands of pygmies. Ilundu Bulanbo Stephane is a Twa pygmy from South Kivu Most of your preconceptions about pygmies would vanish if you met Ilundu Bulanbo Stephane, a Twa pygmy from South Kivu in East of the Democratic Republic of Congo. He is not tall but when we first meet in the jungle I find he is sharply dressed in a grey suit and striped tie. As I take his photograph he jokes, in his polished French, "people don't expect to see pygmies wearing clothes like government ministers". He says there is a time and a place for everything. "It is good to wear traditional clothes in the village, but you can't wear a traditional loincloth in town or at school." As a delegate from Cameroon puts it, indigenous people from the forests of central Africa are the third world of the third world. Their way of life - hunting in the forest and moving from one spot to another - makes it tricky for them to take advantage of education and health services. Nearly everything at the conference was made from the rainforest Meanwhile the bureaucrats among the non-forest people find it difficult to deal with those born in a jungle, away from officialdom. So, for the pygmies, there are problems getting birth certificates, attending school, taking part in elections and playing an active role in the wider society. There is also the problem of exclusion from the forests, because of logging companies. And it is not uncommon to hear about others kept in slave-like employment, by neighbouring farmers who regard them as sub-human. So they have come to Impfondo on the Oubangui river to meet similar forest people from across central Africa to talk and to work out how to end discrimination. There is a willingness to modernise: in some areas they have even started using the latest global positioning satellite technology to map out their hunting grounds and sacred sites. There is also a strong appreciation of the role education can play in helping the communities fight for their rights in the outside world. "Of course we can take on new things that are good for us", says Stephane. "But our values are also good for the 21st Century", he says. "We are a peaceful, egalitarian people who share and live at peace with others. These are values we ask others to copy." From Our Own Correspondent was broadcast on Saturday, 12 March, 2007 at 1130 BST on BBC Radio 4. Please check the for World Service transmission times. E-mail this to a friend Personal reflections by BBC correspondents around the world SEARCH FROM OUR OWN CORRESPONDENT: Three Ways to Listen From Our Own Correspondent Forest pygmies heed spirit world 07 May 06 | Africa Pygmies flee after Burundi poll 08 Mar 05 | Africa DR Congo pygmies 'exterminated' 06 Jul 04 | Africa DR Congo pygmies appeal to UN 23 May 03 | Africa MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Get slim on the office treadmill Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris Free tool offers 'easy' coding Spielberg 'to make Tintin movie' Gaza faction boosts police ranks Most popular now, in detail 'No evidence' for Algarve arrest US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies New doubt cast on Woolmer murder New Media Home: The Conclusion Queen 'must be quizzed on Diana' Most popular now, in detail Can the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out...
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/africa/6658773.stm	BBC NEWS | World | Africa | Locals seize Nigeria oil facility Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Tuesday, 15 May 2007, 17:02 GMT 18:02 UK E-mail this to a friend Locals seize Nigeria oil facility Protests have led to cuts in oil production in Nigeria Angry Ogoni youths have taken over an oil facility in Nigeria's volatile Niger Delta region leading to cuts in oil production, officials say. The villagers, angered by oil spills from pipelines running through their community say they will not leave until they are paid compensation. The protests have led Royal Dutch Shell Plc to reduce crude oil production by 170,000 barrels per day. A Shell spokesman said negotiations with the youths had begun. The BBC's Abdullahi Kaura in Port Harcourt says the Ogoni people have had a running battle with the oil giant for the past 14 years over oil spills. Insiders say Shell is planning to resume production in Ogoniland, 14 years after they were forced out of the area by the villagers, a factor that may have triggered the new protest inside the facility near K-Dere in Ogoniland. Nigeria's authorities have warned the company to resume oil production in Ogoniland or risk having their oil prospecting licence for oil blocks in the area revoked. "The villagers are aware of this and may have decided to take over the facility to remind the company that they haven't forgotten their past deeds," a security source told the BBC's News website. E-mail this to a friend Get the latest breaking news delivered to your desktop or mobile device The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Ethiopia warned on Somali pullout Cameroon's crash pilot 'warned' Locals seize Nigeria oil facility MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris Get slim on the office treadmill Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat Free tool offers 'easy' coding Happiness wins science book prize Most popular now, in detail 'No evidence' for Algarve arrest New doubt cast on Woolmer murder US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies New Media Home: The Conclusion Queen 'must be quizzed on Diana' Most popular now, in detail Can the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out... Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/africa/6658773.stm	BBC NEWS | World | Africa | Locals seize Nigeria oil facility Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Tuesday, 15 May 2007, 17:02 GMT 18:02 UK E-mail this to a friend Locals seize Nigeria oil facility Protests have led to cuts in oil production in Nigeria Angry Ogoni youths have taken over an oil facility in Nigeria's volatile Niger Delta region leading to cuts in oil production, officials say. The villagers, angered by oil spills from pipelines running through their community say they will not leave until they are paid compensation. The protests have led Royal Dutch Shell Plc to reduce crude oil production by 170,000 barrels per day. A Shell spokesman said negotiations with the youths had begun. The BBC's Abdullahi Kaura in Port Harcourt says the Ogoni people have had a running battle with the oil giant for the past 14 years over oil spills. Insiders say Shell is planning to resume production in Ogoniland, 14 years after they were forced out of the area by the villagers, a factor that may have triggered the new protest inside the facility near K-Dere in Ogoniland. Nigeria's authorities have warned the company to resume oil production in Ogoniland or risk having their oil prospecting licence for oil blocks in the area revoked. "The villagers are aware of this and may have decided to take over the facility to remind the company that they haven't forgotten their past deeds," a security source told the BBC's News website. E-mail this to a friend Get the latest breaking news delivered to your desktop or mobile device The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Ethiopia warned on Somali pullout Cameroon's crash pilot 'warned' Locals seize Nigeria oil facility MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris Get slim on the office treadmill Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat Free tool offers 'easy' coding Happiness wins science book prize Most popular now, in detail 'No evidence' for Algarve arrest New doubt cast on Woolmer murder US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies New Media Home: The Conclusion Queen 'must be quizzed on Diana' Most popular now, in detail Can the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out... Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/programmes/from_our_own_correspondent/6646115.stm	BBC NEWS | Programmes | From Our Own Correspondent | A pygmy conference in the rainforest Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Saturday, 12 May 2007, 10:45 GMT 11:45 UK E-mail this to a friend A pygmy conference in the rainforest BBC News, Republic of Congo It was 0830 in the morning when I clambered out of the cab of the battered French 10-wheeled truck, wiped the sweat off my forehead with an already soaked shirt-sleeve and looked for the nearest patch of shade. The first international forum for indigenous peoples in Impfondo I had flagged down the truck to hitch a lift to the pygmy meeting, but I found myself deposited on a mud road in a tropical jungle. My skin was already burning. The first clue to the location of the conference was the chanting which drifted out of the rainforest. I headed towards it down a narrow track through the forest. Small figures flitted in and out of the trees on the path ahead. A few seconds later the trees parted to reveal a shaded clearing; on it, somewhat incongruously, a pile of white plastic chairs. Everything else around was clearly made from and in the tropical rainforest. Leaves had been bent and twisted and then shaped into small domed huts. Inside, children slept on, oblivious to the large circle of men and women shuffling, swaying and singing outside. The soundtrack was provided by the beat of drums, several taller than a man. I had arrived at the first international forum for indigenous peoples in the Congo basin. The delegates were from settlements of ancient forest peoples - many commonly called pygmies. Supplies can only reach Impfondo via the Oubangui river Some indigenous rainforest communities dislike the word pygmy, others maintain they are proud of it. They had come to the remote town of Impfondo in the far north of the Republic of Congo. There are no roads linking this place to the rest of Congo. Just the Oubangui river, which flows into the mighty Congo river just after it crosses into the southern hemisphere. For outsiders it is a daily battle to make a home here in the rainforest. Supplies can only be shipped in to Impfondo when the river is high enough or on the Soviet-era propeller planes that fly in from Brazzaville 500 miles (804 km) to the south. Electricity comes from the massive town generator, but only if there is enough oil. Congo-Brazzaville, as this country is often called, is much smaller than its neighbour, the Democratic Republic of Congo. But it is not small. It is roughly the size of Germany with a population of less than four million. The majority live in the two southern cities of Brazzaville and Pointe-noire; so the rest of the country has some of the most untouched forests in the world. These are the forests where outsiders came in waves for rubber, ivory, palm oil and timber. They may have thought this was a land untouched by human habitation, but it was in fact already home to thousands of pygmies. Ilundu Bulanbo Stephane is a Twa pygmy from South Kivu Most of your preconceptions about pygmies would vanish if you met Ilundu Bulanbo Stephane, a Twa pygmy from South Kivu in East of the Democratic Republic of Congo. He is not tall but when we first meet in the jungle I find he is sharply dressed in a grey suit and striped tie. As I take his photograph he jokes, in his polished French, "people don't expect to see pygmies wearing clothes like government ministers". He says there is a time and a place for everything. "It is good to wear traditional clothes in the village, but you can't wear a traditional loincloth in town or at school." As a delegate from Cameroon puts it, indigenous people from the forests of central Africa are the third world of the third world. Their way of life - hunting in the forest and moving from one spot to another - makes it tricky for them to take advantage of education and health services. Nearly everything at the conference was made from the rainforest Meanwhile the bureaucrats among the non-forest people find it difficult to deal with those born in a jungle, away from officialdom. So, for the pygmies, there are problems getting birth certificates, attending school, taking part in elections and playing an active role in the wider society. There is also the problem of exclusion from the forests, because of logging companies. And it is not uncommon to hear about others kept in slave-like employment, by neighbouring farmers who regard them as sub-human. So they have come to Impfondo on the Oubangui river to meet similar forest people from across central Africa to talk and to work out how to end discrimination. There is a willingness to modernise: in some areas they have even started using the latest global positioning satellite technology to map out their hunting grounds and sacred sites. There is also a strong appreciation of the role education can play in helping the communities fight for their rights in the outside world. "Of course we can take on new things that are good for us", says Stephane. "But our values are also good for the 21st Century", he says. "We are a peaceful, egalitarian people who share and live at peace with others. These are values we ask others to copy." From Our Own Correspondent was broadcast on Saturday, 12 March, 2007 at 1130 BST on BBC Radio 4. Please check the for World Service transmission times. E-mail this to a friend Personal reflections by BBC correspondents around the world SEARCH FROM OUR OWN CORRESPONDENT: Three Ways to Listen From Our Own Correspondent Forest pygmies heed spirit world 07 May 06 | Africa Pygmies flee after Burundi poll 08 Mar 05 | Africa DR Congo pygmies 'exterminated' 06 Jul 04 | Africa DR Congo pygmies appeal to UN 23 May 03 | Africa MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris Get slim on the office treadmill Free tool offers 'easy' coding Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies Most popular now, in detail 'No evidence' for Algarve arrest US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies New doubt cast on Woolmer murder New Media Home: The Conclusion Queen 'must be quizzed on Diana' Most popular now, in detail Can the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out...
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/programmes/from_our_own_correspondent/6646115.stm	BBC NEWS | Programmes | From Our Own Correspondent | A pygmy conference in the rainforest Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Saturday, 12 May 2007, 10:45 GMT 11:45 UK E-mail this to a friend A pygmy conference in the rainforest BBC News, Republic of Congo It was 0830 in the morning when I clambered out of the cab of the battered French 10-wheeled truck, wiped the sweat off my forehead with an already soaked shirt-sleeve and looked for the nearest patch of shade. The first international forum for indigenous peoples in Impfondo I had flagged down the truck to hitch a lift to the pygmy meeting, but I found myself deposited on a mud road in a tropical jungle. My skin was already burning. The first clue to the location of the conference was the chanting which drifted out of the rainforest. I headed towards it down a narrow track through the forest. Small figures flitted in and out of the trees on the path ahead. A few seconds later the trees parted to reveal a shaded clearing; on it, somewhat incongruously, a pile of white plastic chairs. Everything else around was clearly made from and in the tropical rainforest. Leaves had been bent and twisted and then shaped into small domed huts. Inside, children slept on, oblivious to the large circle of men and women shuffling, swaying and singing outside. The soundtrack was provided by the beat of drums, several taller than a man. I had arrived at the first international forum for indigenous peoples in the Congo basin. The delegates were from settlements of ancient forest peoples - many commonly called pygmies. Supplies can only reach Impfondo via the Oubangui river Some indigenous rainforest communities dislike the word pygmy, others maintain they are proud of it. They had come to the remote town of Impfondo in the far north of the Republic of Congo. There are no roads linking this place to the rest of Congo. Just the Oubangui river, which flows into the mighty Congo river just after it crosses into the southern hemisphere. For outsiders it is a daily battle to make a home here in the rainforest. Supplies can only be shipped in to Impfondo when the river is high enough or on the Soviet-era propeller planes that fly in from Brazzaville 500 miles (804 km) to the south. Electricity comes from the massive town generator, but only if there is enough oil. Congo-Brazzaville, as this country is often called, is much smaller than its neighbour, the Democratic Republic of Congo. But it is not small. It is roughly the size of Germany with a population of less than four million. The majority live in the two southern cities of Brazzaville and Pointe-noire; so the rest of the country has some of the most untouched forests in the world. These are the forests where outsiders came in waves for rubber, ivory, palm oil and timber. They may have thought this was a land untouched by human habitation, but it was in fact already home to thousands of pygmies. Ilundu Bulanbo Stephane is a Twa pygmy from South Kivu Most of your preconceptions about pygmies would vanish if you met Ilundu Bulanbo Stephane, a Twa pygmy from South Kivu in East of the Democratic Republic of Congo. He is not tall but when we first meet in the jungle I find he is sharply dressed in a grey suit and striped tie. As I take his photograph he jokes, in his polished French, "people don't expect to see pygmies wearing clothes like government ministers". He says there is a time and a place for everything. "It is good to wear traditional clothes in the village, but you can't wear a traditional loincloth in town or at school." As a delegate from Cameroon puts it, indigenous people from the forests of central Africa are the third world of the third world. Their way of life - hunting in the forest and moving from one spot to another - makes it tricky for them to take advantage of education and health services. Nearly everything at the conference was made from the rainforest Meanwhile the bureaucrats among the non-forest people find it difficult to deal with those born in a jungle, away from officialdom. So, for the pygmies, there are problems getting birth certificates, attending school, taking part in elections and playing an active role in the wider society. There is also the problem of exclusion from the forests, because of logging companies. And it is not uncommon to hear about others kept in slave-like employment, by neighbouring farmers who regard them as sub-human. So they have come to Impfondo on the Oubangui river to meet similar forest people from across central Africa to talk and to work out how to end discrimination. There is a willingness to modernise: in some areas they have even started using the latest global positioning satellite technology to map out their hunting grounds and sacred sites. There is also a strong appreciation of the role education can play in helping the communities fight for their rights in the outside world. "Of course we can take on new things that are good for us", says Stephane. "But our values are also good for the 21st Century", he says. "We are a peaceful, egalitarian people who share and live at peace with others. These are values we ask others to copy." From Our Own Correspondent was broadcast on Saturday, 12 March, 2007 at 1130 BST on BBC Radio 4. Please check the for World Service transmission times. E-mail this to a friend Personal reflections by BBC correspondents around the world SEARCH FROM OUR OWN CORRESPONDENT: Three Ways to Listen From Our Own Correspondent Forest pygmies heed spirit world 07 May 06 | Africa Pygmies flee after Burundi poll 08 Mar 05 | Africa DR Congo pygmies 'exterminated' 06 Jul 04 | Africa DR Congo pygmies appeal to UN 23 May 03 | Africa MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris Get slim on the office treadmill Free tool offers 'easy' coding Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies Most popular now, in detail 'No evidence' for Algarve arrest US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies New doubt cast on Woolmer murder New Media Home: The Conclusion Queen 'must be quizzed on Diana' Most popular now, in detail Can the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out...
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/world/africa/6659179.stm	BBC NEWS | World | Africa | Cameroon's crash pilot 'warned' Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Tuesday, 15 May 2007, 17:11 GMT 18:11 UK E-mail this to a friend Cameroon's crash pilot 'warned' The Kenya Airways plane came down in dense mangrove swamps The pilot of the plane that crashed in Cameroon earlier this month was warned about the stormy weather, Cameroon's Civil Aviation Authority head has said. "The control tower gave all the meteorological information to the commander of the flight... he decided to take off," Ignatius Sama Juma said. Kenya Airways Boeing 737 crashed into swampland soon after take-off from Douala, killing all 114 passengers. The official inquiry is yet to report on the cause of the disaster. So far the data recorder has been recovered, but not the voice recorder. Flight data recorders and cockpit voice recorders contain a wide variety of information, including speed and altitude as well as cockpit voice communications. People from at least 23 nations had been travelling on board flight KQ 507 which took off in heavy rain en route to the Kenyan capital, Nairobi, on Saturday 5 May. Mr Sama Juma said two other planes had also been due to leave that night, but waited until the weather conditions improved. Search parties took nearly two days to locate the wreckage. The distress beacon was found on Tuesday, state media reports. The BBC's Randy Joe Sa'ah, in Cameroon, says there has been growing anger about the slow recovery process among the families of the victims. E-mail this to a friend Cameroon villagers hunt for bodies 07 May 07 | Africa Grief and confusion in Kenya 07 May 07 | Africa In pictures: Cameroon crash scene 07 May 07 | In Pictures UK team to aid air crash families 07 May 07 | UK Cameroon air crash site located 06 May 07 | Africa Britons on missing airliner named 06 May 07 | UK Kenya plane 'crashes in Cameroon' 05 May 07 | Africa 05 May 07 | Europe How safe is it to fly in Africa? 15 Dec 05 | Africa The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Ethiopia warned on Somali pullout Cameroon's crash pilot 'warned' Locals seize Nigeria oil facility MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris Get slim on the office treadmill Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat Free tool offers 'easy' coding Happiness wins science book prize Most popular now, in detail 'No evidence' for Algarve arrest US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies New doubt cast on Woolmer murder New Media Home: The Conclusion Queen 'must be quizzed on Diana' Most popular now, in detail Can the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out... Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/world/africa/6659179.stm	BBC NEWS | World | Africa | Cameroon's crash pilot 'warned' Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Tuesday, 15 May 2007, 17:11 GMT 18:11 UK E-mail this to a friend Cameroon's crash pilot 'warned' The Kenya Airways plane came down in dense mangrove swamps The pilot of the plane that crashed in Cameroon earlier this month was warned about the stormy weather, Cameroon's Civil Aviation Authority head has said. "The control tower gave all the meteorological information to the commander of the flight... he decided to take off," Ignatius Sama Juma said. Kenya Airways Boeing 737 crashed into swampland soon after take-off from Douala, killing all 114 passengers. The official inquiry is yet to report on the cause of the disaster. So far the data recorder has been recovered, but not the voice recorder. Flight data recorders and cockpit voice recorders contain a wide variety of information, including speed and altitude as well as cockpit voice communications. People from at least 23 nations had been travelling on board flight KQ 507 which took off in heavy rain en route to the Kenyan capital, Nairobi, on Saturday 5 May. Mr Sama Juma said two other planes had also been due to leave that night, but waited until the weather conditions improved. Search parties took nearly two days to locate the wreckage. The distress beacon was found on Tuesday, state media reports. The BBC's Randy Joe Sa'ah, in Cameroon, says there has been growing anger about the slow recovery process among the families of the victims. E-mail this to a friend Cameroon villagers hunt for bodies 07 May 07 | Africa Grief and confusion in Kenya 07 May 07 | Africa In pictures: Cameroon crash scene 07 May 07 | In Pictures UK team to aid air crash families 07 May 07 | UK Cameroon air crash site located 06 May 07 | Africa Britons on missing airliner named 06 May 07 | UK Kenya plane 'crashes in Cameroon' 05 May 07 | Africa 05 May 07 | Europe How safe is it to fly in Africa? 15 Dec 05 | Africa The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Ethiopia warned on Somali pullout Cameroon's crash pilot 'warned' Locals seize Nigeria oil facility MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris Get slim on the office treadmill Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat Free tool offers 'easy' coding Happiness wins science book prize Most popular now, in detail 'No evidence' for Algarve arrest US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies New doubt cast on Woolmer murder New Media Home: The Conclusion Queen 'must be quizzed on Diana' Most popular now, in detail Can the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out... Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/world/asia-pacific/6656417.stm	BBC NEWS | World | Asia-Pacific | Japan boy 'severs mother's head' Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Tuesday, 15 May 2007, 10:52 GMT 11:52 UK E-mail this to a friend Japan boy 'severs mother's head' A teenage Japanese boy has been arrested after walking into a police station carrying a severed human head and claiming to have killed his mother. The 17-year-old went to a police station in the town of Aizuwakamatsu, north of Tokyo, carrying the head in a sports bag, Japanese media said. The beheaded body of a woman was later found at the boy's home, police said. This is the latest in a series of grisly killings in Japan, a country renowned for its low crime rate. On Monday a severed human leg was discovered in a small river in central Tokyo. In January, a 32-year-old woman was arrested after she confessed to killing her husband, dismembering him with a saw and dumping body parts around Tokyo. In the latest case, the boy, said to be a local high school student, reportedly told police he killed his mother with a knife during the night as she slept, and had acted alone. Japanese press said the boy lived with his young brother, separately from their parents. Their mother was believed to have been visiting them on Monday. The teenager was reported to have undergone psychiatric treatment at some point in the past. Chief Cabinet Secretary Yasuhisa Shiozaki expressed his alarm at the reports. "If it's true, it's horrifying," he said. Aizuwakamatsu is located in Fukushima prefecture, some 200km (125 miles) north of Tokyo. E-mail this to a friend The 'beast with a human face' 24 Apr 07 | Asia-Pacific Man cleared over death of Lucie 24 Apr 07 | Asia-Pacific Japan in shock at school murder 02 Jun 04 | Asia-Pacific 18 Apr 07 | Country profiles Violence mars Philippine count Japan boy 'severs mother's head' Russia and Burma in nuclear deal MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Get slim on the office treadmill Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris Free tool offers 'easy' coding Spielberg 'to make Tintin movie' Gaza faction boosts police ranks Most popular now, in detail 'No evidence' for Algarve arrest US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies New doubt cast on Woolmer murder New Media Home: The Conclusion Queen 'must be quizzed on Diana' Most popular now, in detail Can the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out... Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/world/asia-pacific/6656417.stm	BBC NEWS | World | Asia-Pacific | Japan boy 'severs mother's head' Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Tuesday, 15 May 2007, 10:52 GMT 11:52 UK E-mail this to a friend Japan boy 'severs mother's head' A teenage Japanese boy has been arrested after walking into a police station carrying a severed human head and claiming to have killed his mother. The 17-year-old went to a police station in the town of Aizuwakamatsu, north of Tokyo, carrying the head in a sports bag, Japanese media said. The beheaded body of a woman was later found at the boy's home, police said. This is the latest in a series of grisly killings in Japan, a country renowned for its low crime rate. On Monday a severed human leg was discovered in a small river in central Tokyo. In January, a 32-year-old woman was arrested after she confessed to killing her husband, dismembering him with a saw and dumping body parts around Tokyo. In the latest case, the boy, said to be a local high school student, reportedly told police he killed his mother with a knife during the night as she slept, and had acted alone. Japanese press said the boy lived with his young brother, separately from their parents. Their mother was believed to have been visiting them on Monday. The teenager was reported to have undergone psychiatric treatment at some point in the past. Chief Cabinet Secretary Yasuhisa Shiozaki expressed his alarm at the reports. "If it's true, it's horrifying," he said. Aizuwakamatsu is located in Fukushima prefecture, some 200km (125 miles) north of Tokyo. E-mail this to a friend The 'beast with a human face' 24 Apr 07 | Asia-Pacific Man cleared over death of Lucie 24 Apr 07 | Asia-Pacific Japan in shock at school murder 02 Jun 04 | Asia-Pacific 18 Apr 07 | Country profiles Violence mars Philippine count Japan boy 'severs mother's head' Russia and Burma in nuclear deal MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Get slim on the office treadmill Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris Free tool offers 'easy' coding Spielberg 'to make Tintin movie' Gaza faction boosts police ranks Most popular now, in detail 'No evidence' for Algarve arrest US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies New doubt cast on Woolmer murder New Media Home: The Conclusion Queen 'must be quizzed on Diana' Most popular now, in detail Can the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out... Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/africa/6659179.stm	BBC NEWS | World | Africa | Cameroon's crash pilot 'warned' Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Tuesday, 15 May 2007, 17:11 GMT 18:11 UK E-mail this to a friend Cameroon's crash pilot 'warned' The Kenya Airways plane came down in dense mangrove swamps The pilot of the plane that crashed in Cameroon earlier this month was warned about the stormy weather, Cameroon's Civil Aviation Authority head has said. "The control tower gave all the meteorological information to the commander of the flight... he decided to take off," Ignatius Sama Juma said. Kenya Airways Boeing 737 crashed into swampland soon after take-off from Douala, killing all 114 passengers. The official inquiry is yet to report on the cause of the disaster. So far the data recorder has been recovered, but not the voice recorder. Flight data recorders and cockpit voice recorders contain a wide variety of information, including speed and altitude as well as cockpit voice communications. People from at least 23 nations had been travelling on board flight KQ 507 which took off in heavy rain en route to the Kenyan capital, Nairobi, on Saturday 5 May. Mr Sama Juma said two other planes had also been due to leave that night, but waited until the weather conditions improved. Search parties took nearly two days to locate the wreckage. The distress beacon was found on Tuesday, state media reports. The BBC's Randy Joe Sa'ah, in Cameroon, says there has been growing anger about the slow recovery process among the families of the victims. E-mail this to a friend Cameroon villagers hunt for bodies 07 May 07 | Africa Grief and confusion in Kenya 07 May 07 | Africa In pictures: Cameroon crash scene 07 May 07 | In Pictures UK team to aid air crash families 07 May 07 | UK Cameroon air crash site located 06 May 07 | Africa Britons on missing airliner named 06 May 07 | UK Kenya plane 'crashes in Cameroon' 05 May 07 | Africa 05 May 07 | Europe How safe is it to fly in Africa? 15 Dec 05 | Africa The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Ethiopia warned on Somali pullout Cameroon's crash pilot 'warned' Locals seize Nigeria oil facility MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Get slim on the office treadmill Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris Free tool offers 'easy' coding Spielberg 'to make Tintin movie' Gaza faction boosts police ranks Most popular now, in detail 'No evidence' for Algarve arrest US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies New doubt cast on Woolmer murder New Media Home: The Conclusion Queen 'must be quizzed on Diana' Most popular now, in detail Can the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out... Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/africa/6659179.stm	BBC NEWS | World | Africa | Cameroon's crash pilot 'warned' Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Tuesday, 15 May 2007, 17:11 GMT 18:11 UK E-mail this to a friend Cameroon's crash pilot 'warned' The Kenya Airways plane came down in dense mangrove swamps The pilot of the plane that crashed in Cameroon earlier this month was warned about the stormy weather, Cameroon's Civil Aviation Authority head has said. "The control tower gave all the meteorological information to the commander of the flight... he decided to take off," Ignatius Sama Juma said. Kenya Airways Boeing 737 crashed into swampland soon after take-off from Douala, killing all 114 passengers. The official inquiry is yet to report on the cause of the disaster. So far the data recorder has been recovered, but not the voice recorder. Flight data recorders and cockpit voice recorders contain a wide variety of information, including speed and altitude as well as cockpit voice communications. People from at least 23 nations had been travelling on board flight KQ 507 which took off in heavy rain en route to the Kenyan capital, Nairobi, on Saturday 5 May. Mr Sama Juma said two other planes had also been due to leave that night, but waited until the weather conditions improved. Search parties took nearly two days to locate the wreckage. The distress beacon was found on Tuesday, state media reports. The BBC's Randy Joe Sa'ah, in Cameroon, says there has been growing anger about the slow recovery process among the families of the victims. E-mail this to a friend Cameroon villagers hunt for bodies 07 May 07 | Africa Grief and confusion in Kenya 07 May 07 | Africa In pictures: Cameroon crash scene 07 May 07 | In Pictures UK team to aid air crash families 07 May 07 | UK Cameroon air crash site located 06 May 07 | Africa Britons on missing airliner named 06 May 07 | UK Kenya plane 'crashes in Cameroon' 05 May 07 | Africa 05 May 07 | Europe How safe is it to fly in Africa? 15 Dec 05 | Africa The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Ethiopia warned on Somali pullout Cameroon's crash pilot 'warned' Locals seize Nigeria oil facility MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Get slim on the office treadmill Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris Free tool offers 'easy' coding Spielberg 'to make Tintin movie' Gaza faction boosts police ranks Most popular now, in detail 'No evidence' for Algarve arrest US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies New doubt cast on Woolmer murder New Media Home: The Conclusion Queen 'must be quizzed on Diana' Most popular now, in detail Can the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out... Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/programmes/from_our_own_correspondent/6639385.stm	BBC NEWS | Programmes | From Our Own Correspondent | A letter from Iraq to Tony Blair Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Thursday, 10 May 2007, 13:59 GMT 14:59 UK E-mail this to a friend A letter from Iraq to Tony Blair One issue threatens to overshadow Tony Blair's legacy, affecting his image and standing at home and abroad, the decision to go to war in Iraq. Even at the time of Saddam's fall, people were wary of the future I have never written to a politician in my life. But I very nearly made an exception for Tony Blair. It was towards the end of 2002, when it was already clear that the invasion of Iraq was only a matter of time. I found myself deeply torn. I had no illusions about the nature of Saddam Hussein. I had followed his brutal antics for years. I had been to his Iraq, and felt the all-pervasive fear instilled by his vigilant and ruthless police state. What a relief it was to get on the plane and feel that oppressive weight lifted off your shoulders, an experience that most Iraqis were denied. But when Saddam's excesses were at their worst, during the war with Iran in the 1980s, he was actually being discreetly supported by the Americans. Washington was turning a blind eye to human rights reports from its own State Department detailing how Iraqi children were being tortured in front of their parents to get them to confess or inform. In 1988, when the Iraqi air force dropped chemical bombs which killed thousands of Kurds at Halabja, I remember phoning the Pentagon, and being told: "We think it was the Iranians who did it." So on a personal level, I would be glad to see the end of Saddam Hussein and his harsh dictatorship. It was clear, long before it happened, that this was going to be a terrible mess. It had to be But the impending invasion was clearly not about to happen because he was a bad man. It might be the right thing, but it was being done for the wrong reasons - reasons that had more to do with the global ambitions of the ascendant neo-conservatives in Washington, and their desire to engineer a New Order in the Middle East. The chosen pretexts for the war - Saddam's alleged weapons of mass destruction and links with international terror - turned out to be simply invalid. I have often thought, over these past four years, of that regular cartoon slot in the satirical magazine Private Eye, entitled "Things We Seldom See". It features situations which would be blindingly logical, but just never happen. I wanted to propose one where President Bush addresses Saddam Hussein and says: "Mr Hussein, you were right. There were no weapons of mass destruction, and no links with terrorism. We'd like to apologise, and give you your country back." Apart from misgivings about Washington's real motives and objectives, it was clear, long before it happened, that this was going to be a terrible mess. It had to be. Iraq is a patchwork country, an ethnic and confessional cocktail, of Arabs and Kurds, Turkomans and Chaldaeans, Sunnis and Shiites. Iraq has been plagued with civil unrest and violence Such countries are usually held together by a strong centralised dictatorship, which could be benign or tyrannical. As soon as you admit the concept of democracy and take the lid off, it is bound to be difficult and chaotic in the best of conditions, in a place with no democratic traditions or culture. To blow the regime and all its control mechanisms away virtually overnight, through the massive use of force by people from halfway around the world, would inevitably plunge the country and the region into a long period of chaos, whatever exact form it would take. That is why I lay sleepless in my bed in Tehran, mentally composing that letter to Tony Blair that I never wrote. I was going to tell him, on the basis of three decades living and working in the region, that he was on the brink of a massive historical blunder. I never sent it, because I knew of course that it would not make a blind bit of difference, apart from perhaps salving my own conscience, and allowing me to say: "I told you so" - something that would bring no satisfaction at all. And so, four years on, look at what a terrible mess Mr Blair can now say goodbye to, and hand on to Gordon Brown. Where there used to be tight state control, there is massive terrorism on a daily basis. The Americans have been bombing Baghdad again, to quell Sunni militants and Shiite militias. At the end of the day, the British are minor players, politically important partners brought in on the coat-tails of the Americans They are building walls to separate districts, euphemistically calling them "gated communities". Millions of Iraqis have fled the country. In the south, British troops are trying to stifle Shiite militias which know they only have to wait, because the British will be gone before long. A transition of leadership in London is not going to make much difference on the ground in Iraq. Gordon Brown will be locked into a situation which he might or might not have chosen to get into in the first place, but will now be stuck with, and his options will be limited. At the end of the day, the British are minor players, politically important partners brought in on the coat-tails of the Americans. It is the outcome of their last-ditch struggle to control Baghdad and central Iraq that is crucial to the country's future. If it does not work, the coalition troops may start pulling out and we may find that Iraq's long nightmare has only just begun. From Our Own Correspondent was broadcast on Thursday, 10 May, 2007 at 1100 GMT on BBC Radio 4. Please check the for World Service transmission times. E-mail this to a friend Personal reflections by BBC correspondents around the world SEARCH FROM OUR OWN CORRESPONDENT: Three Ways to Listen From Our Own Correspondent THE STRUGGLE FOR IRAQ US names general to be 'war tsar' Many die in fresh bombings Search for missing US Iraq troops US and Iran to hold talks on Iraq The Iraq summit was a limited success for US contacts with Iran and Syria Despair as Baghdad plan falters Massacre fuels northern tensions Baghdad: Mapping the violence Iraq violence in figures Baker's sweet smell of success Your views: Iraq four years on TV reports on Iraq MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat Mars starts using animal products Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris Japan boy 'severs mother's head' Brazilian guilty of US nun murder Most popular now, in detail 'No evidence' for Algarve arrest Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat New doubt cast on Woolmer murder US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies Most popular now, in detail Can the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out...
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/south_asia/6659461.stm	BBC NEWS | World | South Asia | India eyes north-east oil and gas Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Tuesday, 15 May 2007, 17:45 GMT 18:45 UK E-mail this to a friend India eyes north-east oil and gas India's state-owned Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC) is to invest nearly 90bn rupees ($2bn) in oil and gas projects in the country's north-east. ONGC chairman RS Sharma made the announcement during a tour of the region on Tuesday. He said the corporation would drill 140 oil wells in Assam and more than 80 in other states over the next five years. Most oil wells in Assam are several decades old and ONGC wants to modernise as well as find new deposits, he said. "We will involve top global companies like Halliburton to help us in the Assam renewal project. We want to reverse the trend of declining output from matured oil fields in Assam," said Mr Sharma. The ONGC, which produces about 1.6m tonnes of crude oil annually in Assam, hopes to nearly double its production with the additional investments. Indian troops face separatist insurgencies in many states "We expect to produce about 3m tonnes of crude oil with the investments used in drilling wells and associated pipelines, besides revamping existing facilities," Mr Sharma told journalists in Assam's capital, Guwahati. India produces about 30m tonnes of crude oil annually, with Assam accounting for about 5m tonnes of the total. Oil India Limited (OIL) produces about 3.5m tonnes of crude in Assam annually. Assam has more than 1.3bn tonnes of proven crude oil and 156bn cubic metres of natural gas reserves, more than half of which are yet to be explored. The state accounts for nearly 50% of the country's on-shore crude oil production. "Assam has the highest success ratio in the world with 70% of the exploration sites yielding oil," said ONGC's director of exploration DK Pande. The ONGC will also start exploration in Nagaland state by October this year after more than a decade. It was forced to stop operations in the mid-1990s after separatist rebels threatened to attack its facilities. The rebels are now negotiating with the Indian government. The ONGC will also start drilling several wells in Mizoram state on the border with Burma this year. These blocks are said to be rich in both oil and gas. E-mail this to a friend Pipelines damaged in India blasts 10 Jun 06 | South Asia The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites TOP SOUTH ASIA STORIES Many killed in Pakistan bombing New doubt cast on Woolmer murder India eyes north-east oil and gas MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat Mars starts using animal products Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris Japan boy 'severs mother's head' Brazilian guilty of US nun murder Most popular now, in detail 'No evidence' for Algarve arrest Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat New doubt cast on Woolmer murder US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies Most popular now, in detail Can the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out... Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/europe/6658633.stm	BBC NEWS | World | Europe | US to ignore Russia missile fears Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Tuesday, 15 May 2007, 16:56 GMT 17:56 UK E-mail this to a friend US to ignore Russia missile fears Russia and the US defined their differences but did not resolve them The US will not allow Russia to stop it from deploying anti-missile defences in Europe, US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice has said in Moscow. "I don't think anyone expects the United States to permit a veto on American security interests," she said after meeting President Vladimir Putin. Earlier, they agreed to tone down the rhetoric in public exchanges. These were the first talks since February when Mr Putin accused the US of seeking global dominance. Washington is not seeking confrontation, but wants Moscow's co-operation over sensitive issues such as Kosovo, Iran and missile defence, the BBC's defence and security correspondent Rob Watson says. But the agreement to tone down the rhetoric does not mask the continuing differences and the sense in Moscow that Washington has long been ignoring legitimate Russian concerns, our correspondent says. Ms Rice held talks on Tuesday with Mr Putin, Russian Security Council Secretary Igor Ivanov, Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov, former Prime Minister Yevgeny Primakov and Russian civic leaders. The two sides are divided over several issues, including the missile defence shield plan. She defended her position on US missile plans, saying: "The United States needs to be able to move forward, to use technology to defend itself, and we're going to do that." We did talk about the need to keep the temperature down But she also said: "If there are concerns about how the United States has and is continuing to exercise power, absolutely, we can have that discussion." Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said his country's "stance on missile defence was reaffirmed", but maintained it had been a "candid and friendly conversation". "[Mr Putin] supported the understanding by the American side that rhetoric in public exchanges should be toned down and we should focus on concrete issues," local media quoted Mr Lavrov as saying after the talks. And Ms Rice agreed that the two sides had talked "about the need to keep the temperature down". The US opened talks with Poland on Monday over its plans to locate part of its defence shield on Polish soil. The US wants 10 interceptor rockets there to destroy any long-range ballistic missiles fired at the US from the Middle East. How the defence system works Warsaw has indicated it will back the plan if it improves Poland's security. The US also wants a radar base in the Czech Republic. The Kremlin has also expressed opposition to Washington's backing for the independence of Kosovo from Serbia. Russia believes Kosovo should remain part of Serbia. "It was agreed to search for a solution on Kosovo that would be acceptable for all, but there is no such solution immediately in sight," Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said. For her part, Ms Rice has criticised what she sees as democratic setbacks in Mr Putin's Russia. E-mail this to a friend VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS What Condoleezza Rice has said about the plans No breakthrough for US and Russia 15 May 07 | Europe Rice rejects 'new Cold War' talk 14 May 07 | Europe Putin attacks 'very dangerous' US 10 Feb 07 | Europe Echoes of Cold War in missile arguments 23 Apr 07 | Europe Q&A: US missile defence 23 Feb 07 | Americas The politics of missile defence 23 Feb 07 | UK How US missile defence system works 22 Jun 06 | Americas Russian government (in Russian) US Department of Defense The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites US to ignore Russia missile fears Chirac bids farewell urging unity Serbia MPs approve new coalition MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat Mars starts using animal products Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris Japan boy 'severs mother's head' Brazilian guilty of US nun murder Most popular now, in detail 'No evidence' for Algarve arrest New doubt cast on Woolmer murder Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies Most popular now, in detail Can the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out... Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/world/middle_east/6657243.stm	BBC NEWS | World | Middle East | West 'fails' on Iran nuclear fuel Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Tuesday, 15 May 2007, 14:14 GMT 15:14 UK E-mail this to a friend West 'fails' on Iran nuclear fuel Iran says it plans to install 50,000 centrifuges at the Natanz plant International efforts to halt Iran's uranium enrichment programme have been "overtaken by events", the head of the UN's nuclear agency has said. IAEA Director General Mohammed ElBaradei said Tehran now possessed "the knowledge about how to enrich". In an interview with the New York Times, he said the focus should now be on trying to stop Iran from going to industrial-scale production. Iran has denied accusations from the West that it seeks nuclear weapons. From a proliferation perspective, the fact of the matter is that one of the purposes of suspension ... has been overtaken by events Inspectors from the International Atomic Energy Agency revealed that Iran has solved its technical problems and is now capable of making fuel suitable for nuclear reactors. "From now on, it is simply a question of perfecting that knowledge. People will not like to hear it, but that's a fact," Mr ElBaradei said. The findings come after a short-notice inspection by the agency at Iran's main nuclear facility at Natanz on Sunday. "From a proliferation perspective, the fact of the matter is that one of the purposes of suspension - keeping them from getting the knowledge - has been overtaken by events," Mr ElBaradei said. 2003: Enrichment programme that had been hidden for 18 years is uncovered by IAEA Feb 2006: Iran reports to Security Council 5 Feb 2007: Diplomats confirm Iranian claims to have set up more than 300 centrifuges in two cascades 9 April: Iran says it is enriching uranium on an industrial scale. IAEA and Russian officials are sceptical 19 April: IAEA document confirms Iran is running more than 1,300 centrifuges in eight cascades Q&A: Iran nuclear issue He added: "The focus now should be to stop them from going to industrial-scale production, to allow us to do a full-court-press inspection and to be sure they remain inside the treaty." His remarks will serve to increase the pressure on the US, British, French, German and Russian governments, whose collective efforts to halt Iran's nuclear research have so-far failed, says BBC diplomatic correspondent Jonathan Marcus. Last month the agency revealed the main nuclear plant at Natanz was using about 1,300 centrifuges - machines that spin uranium gas into enriched material. Until recently, those centrifuges were incapable of running at the speeds necessary to make nuclear fuel. However, the material being produced by Iran still requires further enrichment before it can be turned into bomb-grade material. Mr ElBaradei has previously said that Iran would not be able to produce the highly enriched uranium needed for a nuclear bomb as long as it remained under the supervision of IAEA inspectors. The agency is due to report its findings to the UN Security Council next week. The UN Security Council has imposed sanctions on Tehran for its failure to scale back its nuclear programme. Nicholas Burns, the US undersecretary of state for policy, told the New York Times that if Iran does not agree to suspend its activities by the time of next month's G8 meeting, the US would press for a third round of sanctions. Tehran has insisted that its nuclear programme is for peaceful purposes only. E-mail this to a friend Iran nuclear official 'detained' Solana urges US to talk to Iran EU agrees Iran nuclear sanctions Iran nuclear operations confirmed What's behind the row between the UN and Tehran over its nuclear programme Tehran alarm at US tough talk Quick guide: Iran nuclear crisis Iran's key nuclear sites From atom to bomb How should world deal with Iran? Inside Iran - special report The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites TOP MIDDLE EAST STORIES Gaza faction boosts police ranks Iran 'steps up nuclear work' Israel Jerusalem policy condemned MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat Mars starts using animal products Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris Japan boy 'severs mother's head' Brazilian guilty of US nun murder Most popular now, in detail 'No evidence' for Algarve arrest New doubt cast on Woolmer murder Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies Most popular now, in detail Can the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out... Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/world/africa/6656753.stm	BBC NEWS | World | Africa | Ethiopia warned on Somali pullout Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Tuesday, 15 May 2007, 12:41 GMT 13:41 UK E-mail this to a friend Ethiopia warned on Somali pullout Some 1,700 AU troops are already in Somalia The US and the African Union have warned Ethiopia not to withdraw its troops from Somalia before peacekeepers are deployed to replace them. AU commission chief Alpha Oumar Konare says it would be a "catastrophe" if Ethiopia pulled out too soon. US Africa envoy Jendayi Frazer said it would probably be several months before the full peacekeeping force arrived. Ethiopia's prime minister says he wants to withdraw all his troops, after they helped oust Islamists. Up to a third of the population fled recent fighting in the capital, Mogadishu, and badly need aid. Stability will remain elusive... The chaos we are seeing is caused by Western interference Send us your comments Less than 40% of the estimated 300,000 displaced Somalis are receiving any help, according to UN humanitarian relief chief John Holmes. After a visit to Mogadishu, he said Somalia now represents a worse displacement crisis than Sudan's Darfur region. Ethiopian Prime Minister Meles Zenawi said he wanted to end the "onerous" financial burden of having Ethiopian troops, estimated to be several thousand in number, in Somalia. "Things have improved significantly in Mogadishu, making it possible for peacekeeping troops to do their job," he said. Clan rivalries behind violence Doctor's story: 'Too many patients' "I very much hope and expect that those African countries that have promised to send troops will do so." Mr Konare told the AFP news agency that Ethiopia must wait for the AU forces. "If Ethiopia withdrew from Somalia today, it would be a catastrophe," he said. He said Ethiopia had done the job of the AU but its continued presence could "block political dialogue" in Somalia. But Ms Frazer said that an Ethiopian withdrawal before the AU troops arrived would lead to a security vacuum. "It would be a mistake for Ethiopia to withdraw. That said, we certainly want them to withdraw from Somalia as soon as possible," she told the BBC's Newshour programme. Ethiopia has twice fought border wars with Somalia and is widely distrusted there. So far, Uganda has sent 1,700 peacekeepers but the AU says another 6,300 troops are needed. Nigeria, Burundi and Ghana have all promised to contribute to the AU force. Mr Meles said the "organised resistance" of the Islamists had now been "broken". The Ethiopia-backed government says it is in control of Mogadishu after what is seen as the worst fighting in 16 years in the city. But gunmen attacked a World Health Organization office in the city on Monday night, injuring a guard, WHO officials say. Aid workers have accused authorities of hindering the passage of food aid at checkpoints set up across Mogadishu. "We estimate that we are only reach 35 to 40% of those in need," Mr Holmes said. Mr Holmes described conditions in Mogadishu as "depressing" "Many are already suffering from a cholera outbreak." Mr Holmes said international law had been violated by the fighting factions in the city, saying that some citizens had disappeared without explanation. "Clearly, human rights abuses have taken place, but the government categorically denied reports and accusations of their involvement," he said. He said the government had promised to co-operate with a planned UN investigation into the reports. Mr Holmes, the most senior UN official to visit the city in more than a decade, had to cut short his trip on Saturday, after bombs exploded in Mogadishu, killing three people. Somalia has been without an effective national government for 16 years, controlled by rival militias and awash with guns. E-mail this to a friend VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS Ethiopian PM is 'eager for troops to withdraw' Somali traders who survived clashes now face city clean-up Somalia - 'a depressing prospect' Clan rivalries behind violence Timeline: Ethiopia and Somalia Quick guide: Islamic Courts Can Somalia achieve stability? International Committee of the Red Cross The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Ethiopia warned on Somali pullout Cameroon's crash pilot 'warned' Locals seize Nigeria oil facility MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat Mars starts using animal products Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris Japan boy 'severs mother's head' Brazilian guilty of US nun murder Most popular now, in detail 'No evidence' for Algarve arrest New doubt cast on Woolmer murder Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies Most popular now, in detail Can the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out... Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/help/rss/4498287.stm	BBC NEWS | Help | RSS | BBC RSS Feed: Standard Licence Terms Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it BBC RSS Feed: Standard Licence Terms By downloading a BBC RSS Feed ( "BBC Feed") from the British Broadcasting Corporation ("BBC") you agree to be bound by the terms set out below (the "Standard Licence Terms"). These Standard Licence Terms may be updated by the BBC from time to time. Please review these Standard Licence Terms each time you download a BBC Feed. Your download and/or use of a BBC Feed indicates your agreement to these Standard Licence Terms. 1.1 Subject to the terms of this Agreement the BBC grants you a non-transferrable, non-sublicensable, royalty free non-exclusive licence to display on your website ("Site") the headlines, active links or other source identifiers and other information or materials that you specifically select to receive from the BBC via the BBC Feed ("BBC Content"). 1.2 All title, ownership rights and intellectual property rights in and to the BBC Feed shall remain the property of the BBC. 1.3 Nothing in these Standard Licence Terms grants you any right to use the BBC trade mark on your Site or elsewhere. 2. Use of BBC Content 2.1 You may not use the Feed or display any BBC Content on any Site that is a web site that is excluded by the BBC (scroll down for the list of Excluded Websites as may be amended by the BBC from time to time). 2.2 YOU MUST ENSURE THAT ALL BBC CONTENT ON YOUR SITE HAS AN ACCREDITATION TO THE BBC IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE BBC ACCREDITATION GUIDELINES FROM TIME TO TIME (SCROLL DOWN FOR THE BBC ACCREDITATION GUIDELINES AS MAY BE AMENDED BY THE BBC FROM TIME TO TIME). 2.3 YOU MAY NOT DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY CHARGE USERS SPECIFICALLY FOR ACCESSING BBC CONTENT OR OTHERWISE COMMERCIALISE SUCH CONTENT, NOR ATTEMPT TO RE-SELL THE BBC CONTENT IN ANY WAY. 2.4 Where possible you must create a functional link back to the BBC News story(ies) summarised by the BBC Content . If you are displaying the BBC Feed where a functional link back to the BBC is not possible, you must display on-screen the URL from which the BBC Content can be obtained (scroll down to the accreditation section below.) You may not directly or indirectly change, edit, add to or produce summaries of the BBC Content or any content on the BBC website nor place any full-story BBC content in an HTML frame-set. 2.5 You may not directly or indirectly suggest any endorsement or approval by the BBC of your Site or any non-BBC entity, product or content or any views expressed within your site or service. 2.6 You acknowledge that the BBC has absolute editorial control over all BBC Content and you accept that the BBC is editorially independent and that the editorial integrity of the BBC Content is the sole responsibility of the BBC. 2.7 Should you receive any enquiries which relate to the BBC or the BBC Content you should promptly refer such enquiries to www.bbc.co.uk/info/contactus. 3. Warranties & Liability 3.1 You warrant to the BBC that: (i) you have fully complied with, and shall continue to comply fully with, all applicable laws and regulations; (ii) the Site shall contain no material which is libellous, defamatory, pornographic, obscene or which brings the BBC into disrepute, or which is in breach of any third party intellectual property rights; and (iii) users of the Site shall be required to comply with terms that are equivalent to the Standard Licence Terms in relation to their use of BBC Content. 3.2 The BBC Feed is made available by the BBC on an "as is" and "as available" basis and the BBC gives no warranty of any kind in relation to the BBC Feed, the BBC Content, or any content on the BBC website. The BBC disclaims all implied warranties, including but not limited to the implied warranties of satisfactory quality, fitness for a particular purpose, non-infringement, compatibility, and accuracy regarding the BBC Content, the BBC Feed and the BBC website and any content thereon. 3.3 TO THE MAXIMUM EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW THE BBC EXCLUDES ALL LIABILITY TO YOU FOR ANY LOSS OR DAMAGE HOWSOEVER ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THIS AGREEMENT, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO ANY LIABILITY ARISING IN RELATION TO THE BBC FEED, THE BBC CONTENT OR ANY CONTENT ON THE BBC WEBSITE, ANY VIRUS OR OTHER CONTAMINATION OR ANY UNAVAILABILITY OF BBC CONTENT. 3.4 Each provision of this Clause 3 operates separately in itself and survives independently of the others. 4.1 You hereby agree to indemnify, hold harmless and defend the BBC in respect of all damages, costs and expenses, including reasonable legal fees and litigation expenses, arising out of or as a result of any breach of the Standard Licence Terms or otherwise in connection with your use of the BBC Feed (including the BBC Content). 5.1 You may terminate this Agreement and the licence granted herein at any time by destroying or removing all copies of the BBC Feed (including the BBC Content) from your Site, all hard drives, networks and other storage media. 5.2 The BBC may restrict, suspend or terminate the BBC Feed, this Agreement, the licence granted herein or your access to the BBC Feed at any time without liability. You agree to destroy all copies of the BBC Feed (including the BBC Content) upon receiving notice of termination from the BBC. 5.3 Clauses 3, 4 and 6 shall survive termination of this Agreement. 6.1 Neither party may assign, charge, sublicense or otherwise deal with its rights or obligations in this Agreement in whole or in part to any third party. 6.2 This Agreement supersedes all prior agreements, arrangements and understandings between the parties concerning its subject matter. Each of the parties acknowledges that it has not relied on any statement made by the other in the course of entering into this Agreement. 6.3 Any failure or delay by either party in exercising its rights under any provisions of this Agreement shall not be construed as a waiver of those rights at any time now or in the future. 6.4 This Agreement shall be governed by, construed and take effect in accordance with English law and the English courts shall have exclusive jurisdiction to settle any claim or dispute which may arise out of or in connection with this Agreement. The BBC's RSS feeds and any BBC content contained in the BBC RSS feeds may only be displayed on websites that do not fall into any one or more of the categories listed below. A site will be deemed to fall within one of the following categories where there is a material and prominent section of the Site that falls within such category. 1. Sites that incite hatred whether based on race, religion, gender, sexuality or otherwise, or promote encourage or facilitate anti-social behaviour 2. Sites that promote, encourage or facilitate violence 3. Sites that promote, encourage or facilitate terrorism or other activities that risk UK national security 4. Sites that discriminate against any specific social group or otherwise exploit vulnerable sections of society 5. Sites that promote, facilitate or encourage illegal activity 6. Sites which are misleading, pornographic, defamatory, or that contain illegal, or otherwise actionable content under UK law 7. Sites which infringe individual privacy (based on the parameters laid down in the "Privacy" chapter of the BBC's Any BBC RSS feed or BBC content on your site must incorporate an attribution (credit) to the BBC in one of the following forms: "From BBC News / BBC Sport / bbc.co.uk" (delete as applicable), or "This content / article is from BBC News / BBC Sport/ the BBC News website / the BBC Sport website / bbc.co.uk" (delete as applicable) If you are displaying a BBC RSS feed in a context where a functional link back to the article on the BBC's website is not possible then you use the following attribution (credit) From bbc.co.uk/news or bbc.co.uk/sport (delete as applicable) If used as part of the BBC BackStage project, then the following wording needs to be added: You may not use any BBC logo or other BBC trade mark without signing a BBC trade mark licence agreement. MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat Mars starts using animal products Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris Brazilian guilty of US nun murder Most popular now, in detail 'No evidence' for Algarve arrest New doubt cast on Woolmer murder Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies Most popular now, in detail Can the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out... Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/world/default.stm	BBC NEWS | World Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Tuesday, 15 May 2007, 22:37 GMT 23:37 UK World Bank hears Wolfowitz case World Bank President Paul Wolfowitz meets the bank's executive board as he fights for his job. White House stands by Wolfowitz Wolfowitz and World Bank: Q&A Chirac bids farewell urging unity French President Jacques Chirac urges unity and pride in France in his final televised address. US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies Leading US conservative evangelist Rev Jerry Falwell dies in hospital in Lynchburg, Virginia, aged 73. Gaza faction boosts police ranks US to ignore Russia missile fears Brazilian guilty of US nun murder US names general to be 'war tsar' Serbia MPs approve new coalition Spaniard finds mummy in new flat ALSO IN THE NEWS Face mask recommended for yellowing Taj Mahal Outrage as toddler left at Japan drop-off for unwanted newborns Football: Fifa to probe Tevez saga Tennis: Murray doubts for France Bullets and not politicians are doing the talking in Gaza Russia and the US define their differences but fail to settle them Paris crackles with rumour about the new first couple VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS Record breakers: Students in a sauna Pakistan bombing kills many US troops target Sadr City Stallone admits hormone case More Video / Audio News WORLD SERVICE RADIO PROGRAMMES MOST POPULAR VIDEO AND AUDIO Students set new sauna record Reporter's fury caught on tape Evangelist Jerry Falwell dies Panorama: Scientology and Me Pakistan bombing kills many Jealous osprey back in nest AROUND THE WORLD NOW Ethiopia warned on Somali pullout Cameroon's crash pilot 'warned' US detainee 'mentally tortured' New doubt on Woolmer murder Violence mars Philippine count Japan boy 'severs mother's head' EU close to roaming charge deal EU states start tussle on treaty Iran 'steps up nuclear work' Israel Jerusalem policy condemned Many killed in Pakistan bombing India eyes north-east oil and gas MORE FROM BBC NEWS FROM OUR OWN CORRESPONDENT A pygmy conference in the rainforest The comfort of a rusting roof A letter from Iraq to Tony Blair Strong and independent judiciary can do what perhaps nobody else can do in Pakistan. Footballers win sex toy damages Row over Scientology video Violent clashes hit Pakistan city Nasa unveils Hubble's successor 'New leads' in Madeleine search Why the Pentagon is clamping down on video from the front The international community's faltering efforts to bring peace Missing for 64 days Help Alan Johnston's friends prepare to mark his birthday ELSEWHERE ON THE BBC Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/world/middle_east/6658799.stm	BBC NEWS | World | Middle East | Israel Jerusalem policy condemned Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Tuesday, 15 May 2007, 15:50 GMT 16:50 UK E-mail this to a friend Israel Jerusalem policy condemned Israel has built an outer ring of settlements around East Jerusalem The international Red Cross has privately accused Israel of reshaping Jerusalem to further its own interests, in violation of international law. A leaked ICRC report says Israeli policy has far-reaching humanitarian consequences for Palestinians living under occupation in East Jerusalem. Israel captured East Jerusalem in 1967, and the territory is regarded as occupied land under international law. But Israel rejects this, and says the report's premise is, therefore, wrong. The report says Israel shows "general disregard" for its obligations under international humanitarian law and the law of military occupation in particular. Violations that change the status of East Jerusalem include the West Bank barrier, an outer ring of Jewish settlements around the city and roads to connect Israeli districts and settlements, the report says. An ICRC spokesman confirmed that leaked quotations in a US newspaper were from a confidential report transmitted in February 2007 to Israel and some other governments. The leak comes a day before Israel marks 40 years, according to the Jewish calendar, since its capture of East Jerusalem from Jordanian control, in the 1967 war. "We reject the premise of the report," said Israeli foreign ministry spokesman Mark Regev. "East Jerusalem is not occupied land, it is part of Israel. All people there were offered full Israeli citizenship." Israel's unilateral moves in Jerusalem have been condemned by several UN Security Council Resolutions. US and EU ambassadors have boycotted ceremonies in the run-up to Israel's Jerusalem Day on Wednesday, arguing that the status of the city should be determined by negotiations with the Palestinians. E-mail this to a friend Gaza faction boosts police ranks Gaza factions 'agree new truce' UK Palestinians in Johnston plea BBC's Johnston wins press award Weapons and bullets, not politicians, are doing the talking in Gaza 'Wake-up call' for Israel Wave of discontent in Israel Timeline: Alan Johnston missing Palestinian rivals: Fatah & Hamas Israeli views on Halutz International Committee of the Red Cross The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites TOP MIDDLE EAST STORIES Gaza faction boosts police ranks Iran 'steps up nuclear work' Israel Jerusalem policy condemned MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat Mars starts using animal products Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris Japan boy 'severs mother's head' Brazilian guilty of US nun murder Most popular now, in detail 'No evidence' for Algarve arrest New doubt cast on Woolmer murder Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies Most popular now, in detail Can the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out... Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/business/6659433.stm	BBC NEWS | Business | World Bank hears Wolfowitz case Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Tuesday, 15 May 2007, 21:23 GMT 22:23 UK E-mail this to a friend World Bank hears Wolfowitz case Paul Wolfowitz is responding to the report of the 24-member board The president of the World Bank, Paul Wolfowitz, is meeting the bank's 24-member executive board to respond to allegations against him. The meeting comes after the panel said he broke bank rules by helping secure a pay rise for his girlfriend. The board has the power to dismiss him or could choose to report a lack of confidence in his leadership. Earlier in the day, the White House said it still supported Mr Wolfowitz, but added all options were still open. "We've made clear that we support Paul Wolfowitz", said spokesman Tony Snow, but added that the bank's "best interests" also had to be served. The United States failed to win the support of key allies in the Group of Seven, according to a source quoted by Reuters. "Japan was aligned with the United States, but others, including Canada, were against Wolfowitz continuing," the European source said following a conference call of G7 officials. The G7 also includes Italy, France, Germany and Britain. 'Not a firing offence' On Monday, a panel of World Bank executives said Mr Wolfowitz provoked a "conflict of interest" at the bank, by breaking its code of conduct and violating the terms of his contract. Q&A: Wolfowitz and the World Bank Mr Wolfowitz has faced calls for him to step down since details emerged about his role in securing a pay rise for his partner, Shaha Riza, who used to work at the bank. Mr Snow told journalists at the White House that Mr Wolfowitz agreed "a lot of mistakes were made" in the process, but they were not a "firing offence". When Mr Wolfowitz was appointed president of the World Bank in 2005, Ms Riza was transferred to work for the US state department, to avoid any conflict of interest. But her salary rose quickly to about $193,000 (£98,000) - more than the $186,000 that Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice receives before tax. The World Bank has since been investigating the extent of Mr Wolfowitz's role in securing the pay increase. E-mail this to a friend White House stands by Wolfowitz Wolfowitz 'broke World Bank laws' Senior Wolfowitz aide steps down I will not resign, says Wolfowitz Wolfowitz apologises over pay Twists and turns of the 'conflict of interest' probe into World Bank chief Paul Wolfowitz World Bank: Wolf at the door? Profile: IMF and World Bank Q&A: What the World Bank does The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites World Bank hears Wolfowitz case Reuters agrees to Thomson buyout Bank's overdraft charges upheld MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat Mars starts using animal products Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris Japan boy 'severs mother's head' Brazilian guilty of US nun murder Most popular now, in detail 'No evidence' for Algarve arrest New doubt cast on Woolmer murder Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies Most popular now, in detail Can the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out... Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/world/americas/6659585.stm	BBC NEWS | World | Americas | US detainee 'mentally tortured' Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Tuesday, 15 May 2007, 19:05 GMT 20:05 UK E-mail this to a friend US detainee 'mentally tortured' Mr Khan denies having links to al-Qaeda or Islamist extremists A Pakistani-born US resident detained at Guantanamo Bay has said he was "mentally tortured" there, according to a transcript released by the Pentagon. Majid Khan, who has been accused of planning to blow up petrol stations in the US, also described how he tried to commit suicide by chewing on an artery. Mr Khan presented a Statement of Torture to the US military tribunal reviewing his "enemy combatant" status. He was among 14 "high-value" detainees moved to Guantanamo Bay in September. The men were previously held in secret CIA prisons but are now being detained in a maximum security wing at the base in Cuba. Mr Khan moved to the US in the late 1990s, where he went to high school in Baltimore. The US government says that, on his return to Pakistan, family members introduced him to senior al-Qaeda leader Khalid Sheikh Mohammed. He is also accused of having links with fellow Guantanamo detainee Ali Abd al-Aziz Ali, and of passing money to the Islamist militant group, Jemaah Islamiah (JI). At the tribunal at Guantanamo Bay on 15 April, Mr Khan denied he had any connection with Islamist militant groups such as al-Qaeda. There is extensive torture even for the smallest of infractions Key US terror suspects "I am not an enemy combatant," he asserted. "I am not an extremist." "I have never been to Afghanistan and I have never met Osama bin Laden." Afterwards, Mr Khan's personal representative read out a written statement, in which he alleged psychological torture. "I swear to God this place in some sense worst than CIA jails. I am being mentally torture here," he said. "There is extensive torture even for the smallest of infractions." Mr Khan complained about how US guards had taken away pictures of his daughter, given him new glasses with the wrong prescription, shaved his beard off, forcibly fed him when he went on hunger strike, and denied him the opportunity for recreation. This led him to attempt to chew through his artery twice, Mr Khan said. Later, Mr Khan produced a list of further examples of psychological torture, which included the provision of "cheap, branded, unscented soap", the prison newsletter, noisy fans and half-inflated balls in the recreation room that "hardly bounce". E-mail this to a friend US detainee 'mentally tortured' Court rejects Guantanamo test Hicks gets Guantanamo plea deal Terror suspect 'tortured by US' USS Cole suspect 'admits guilt' KS Mohammed's '31 plots' The 14 key detainees Black hole or vital tool? Paul Reynolds looks at the issues surrounding the camp five years on How the camp has evolved New rules of treatment UN report in full (337k) World Bank hears Wolfowitz case Brazilian guilty of US nun murder US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat Mars starts using animal products Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris Brazilian guilty of US nun murder Most popular now, in detail 'No evidence' for Algarve arrest New doubt cast on Woolmer murder Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies Most popular now, in detail Can the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out... Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/programmes/from_our_own_correspondent/6646517.stm	BBC NEWS | Programmes | From Our Own Correspondent | The comfort of a rusting roof Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Saturday, 12 May 2007, 11:19 GMT 12:19 UK E-mail this to a friend The comfort of a rusting roof The Liberian president Ellen Johnson Sirleaf is continuing with her attempt to steer the country back towards stability after years of war. And while some parts of the capital Monrovia now seem to be getting back to normal, in other parts just having a roof on your house is a major struggle. Reverend Thomson Yengbe greets guests in the temporary village hall The little houses in the villages along the road to Lofa County are neat and new, and - to an outside eye - the epitome of picturesque Africa. The mud huts have palm thatched roofs and walls freshly smoothed with ochre yellow clay. Some have even been decorated with hand prints and other patterns in those most ancient of pigments - white and black and terracotta red. But the people who live there are not particularly proud of their new homes. The destruction in many places was almost total Whenever I talked to them they were eager to tell me that they did not always live like this, and they were keen to show me the foundations of their old houses, spacious and solidly built with corrugated iron roofs. Lofa County, in the far north, on the borders of Guinea and Sierra Leone, for a long time escaped the worst of Liberia's civil war. But in the most recent - and everyone hopes final - phase of the war, after the year 2000, rebel forces invaded from over the Guinea border and fought their way south to unseat President Charles Taylor. Lofa County found itself right in the front line. The destruction in many places was almost total. Nyewolihun is a modest, out-of-the-way village in Kolahun district. We found it an hour and a half's walk down a rough track from Kolahun town. For 10 years and more the war passed this place by. Lofa County found itself in the front line of the final phase of the war But in 2001 government soldiers attacked the village without warning, from across the stream which marks the edge of the settlement, and burned it to the ground. They did not stop to explain why, but they may have suspected the villagers of sympathising with the rebels. The people scattered in all directions. When they returned they found the bodies of 16 of their neighbours lying among the smouldering ruins of their homes. After that everyone left and went to Sierra Leone or Guinea as refugees. In 2004 when their area was quiet they started coming home. The first to return had to rely on tree crops like bananas for food, and on hunting the game which had become plentiful in the abandoned forest. 'Some kind of a house' But this is a fertile area and Nyewolihun is growing all its own food once again. When we visited they served us home grown rice, with short nutty grains, fish from the stream and fresh cloudy palm wine. They hope to have their cocoa trees, their main cash crop, back in full production by next year. There are still gaps in the fabric of the village, the rubble of houses whose owners still have not come home, but most families have rebuilt some kind of a house, and there is a small mud and thatch school for the children. On the square foundation of the old meeting hall, a temporary marquee of green palm branches can be raised for special occasions. The towns, if anything, are in a worse state than the countryside. While people are busily rebuilding their own houses, the old Lebanese-owned stores that used to line the main street of Kolahun town are still in ruins. The local people in Lofa seemed quietly confident that peace would hold And among the ruins people are squatting, in tarpaulin and plywood shacks. Petty traders sit at rickety little stalls along the roadside. The best restaurant in town is a kind of wooden box built into the corner of one of the ruins, although it still manages flowered plastic table cloths, white net curtains over the doorways and a choice of main course - bean stew or pepper soup. The village was burnt to the ground by government soldiers in 2001 The Lebanese traders who used to have a stranglehold on Liberian commerce were often resented, but now the local authorities upcountry are begging them to come back. Despite all the rebuilding going on, no-one is selling building materials in the whole of Lofa County. Cement, roofing sheets, ceiling panels - all have to be bought in Monrovia, the capital, a long day's journey away on unpaved roads, and hauled back up at considerable expense. When I suggested to the owner of one store in Monrovia, close to the truck stop where lorries leave for the north, that he was missing a great commercial opportunity in places like Lofa, his verdict was that the situation was still far too dangerous to risk opening up again in the interior. And yet the local people in Lofa seemed quietly confident that peace would hold. While I was there I got embroiled in a debate about roofing sheets, the merits of various gauges and qualities and how long they would last. Could you manage with a thinner gauge as long as you were away from the corrosive effect of sea air? Would it have to be painted every year with anti-rust paint? The verdict was it would certainly last five years, perhaps 10. No-one even questioned whether it was worth spending the money, when someone might come and burn the village at gunpoint or carry off the roofing sheets. And that is a true sense of security - knowing that the roof will stay on your house until it finally rusts away. From Our Own Correspondent was broadcast on Saturday, 12 May, 2007 at 1130 BST on BBC Radio 4. Please check the for World Service transmission times. E-mail this to a friend Personal reflections by BBC correspondents around the world SEARCH FROM OUR OWN CORRESPONDENT: Three Ways to Listen From Our Own Correspondent 28 Feb 07 | Country profiles Liberia: A year of slow progress 16 Jan 07 | Africa In pictures: Liberia, one year on 16 Jan 07 | In Pictures MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat Mars starts using animal products Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris Brazilian guilty of US nun murder Most popular now, in detail 'No evidence' for Algarve arrest New doubt cast on Woolmer murder Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies Most popular now, in detail Can the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out...
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/programmes/from_our_own_correspondent/6646115.stm	BBC NEWS | Programmes | From Our Own Correspondent | A pygmy conference in the rainforest Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Saturday, 12 May 2007, 10:45 GMT 11:45 UK E-mail this to a friend A pygmy conference in the rainforest BBC News, Republic of Congo It was 0830 in the morning when I clambered out of the cab of the battered French 10-wheeled truck, wiped the sweat off my forehead with an already soaked shirt-sleeve and looked for the nearest patch of shade. The first international forum for indigenous peoples in Impfondo I had flagged down the truck to hitch a lift to the pygmy meeting, but I found myself deposited on a mud road in a tropical jungle. My skin was already burning. The first clue to the location of the conference was the chanting which drifted out of the rainforest. I headed towards it down a narrow track through the forest. Small figures flitted in and out of the trees on the path ahead. A few seconds later the trees parted to reveal a shaded clearing; on it, somewhat incongruously, a pile of white plastic chairs. Everything else around was clearly made from and in the tropical rainforest. Leaves had been bent and twisted and then shaped into small domed huts. Inside, children slept on, oblivious to the large circle of men and women shuffling, swaying and singing outside. The soundtrack was provided by the beat of drums, several taller than a man. I had arrived at the first international forum for indigenous peoples in the Congo basin. The delegates were from settlements of ancient forest peoples - many commonly called pygmies. Supplies can only reach Impfondo via the Oubangui river Some indigenous rainforest communities dislike the word pygmy, others maintain they are proud of it. They had come to the remote town of Impfondo in the far north of the Republic of Congo. There are no roads linking this place to the rest of Congo. Just the Oubangui river, which flows into the mighty Congo river just after it crosses into the southern hemisphere. For outsiders it is a daily battle to make a home here in the rainforest. Supplies can only be shipped in to Impfondo when the river is high enough or on the Soviet-era propeller planes that fly in from Brazzaville 500 miles (804 km) to the south. Electricity comes from the massive town generator, but only if there is enough oil. Congo-Brazzaville, as this country is often called, is much smaller than its neighbour, the Democratic Republic of Congo. But it is not small. It is roughly the size of Germany with a population of less than four million. The majority live in the two southern cities of Brazzaville and Pointe-noire; so the rest of the country has some of the most untouched forests in the world. These are the forests where outsiders came in waves for rubber, ivory, palm oil and timber. They may have thought this was a land untouched by human habitation, but it was in fact already home to thousands of pygmies. Ilundu Bulanbo Stephane is a Twa pygmy from South Kivu Most of your preconceptions about pygmies would vanish if you met Ilundu Bulanbo Stephane, a Twa pygmy from South Kivu in East of the Democratic Republic of Congo. He is not tall but when we first meet in the jungle I find he is sharply dressed in a grey suit and striped tie. As I take his photograph he jokes, in his polished French, "people don't expect to see pygmies wearing clothes like government ministers". He says there is a time and a place for everything. "It is good to wear traditional clothes in the village, but you can't wear a traditional loincloth in town or at school." As a delegate from Cameroon puts it, indigenous people from the forests of central Africa are the third world of the third world. Their way of life - hunting in the forest and moving from one spot to another - makes it tricky for them to take advantage of education and health services. Nearly everything at the conference was made from the rainforest Meanwhile the bureaucrats among the non-forest people find it difficult to deal with those born in a jungle, away from officialdom. So, for the pygmies, there are problems getting birth certificates, attending school, taking part in elections and playing an active role in the wider society. There is also the problem of exclusion from the forests, because of logging companies. And it is not uncommon to hear about others kept in slave-like employment, by neighbouring farmers who regard them as sub-human. So they have come to Impfondo on the Oubangui river to meet similar forest people from across central Africa to talk and to work out how to end discrimination. There is a willingness to modernise: in some areas they have even started using the latest global positioning satellite technology to map out their hunting grounds and sacred sites. There is also a strong appreciation of the role education can play in helping the communities fight for their rights in the outside world. "Of course we can take on new things that are good for us", says Stephane. "But our values are also good for the 21st Century", he says. "We are a peaceful, egalitarian people who share and live at peace with others. These are values we ask others to copy." From Our Own Correspondent was broadcast on Saturday, 12 March, 2007 at 1130 BST on BBC Radio 4. Please check the for World Service transmission times. E-mail this to a friend Personal reflections by BBC correspondents around the world SEARCH FROM OUR OWN CORRESPONDENT: Three Ways to Listen From Our Own Correspondent Forest pygmies heed spirit world 07 May 06 | Africa Pygmies flee after Burundi poll 08 Mar 05 | Africa DR Congo pygmies 'exterminated' 06 Jul 04 | Africa DR Congo pygmies appeal to UN 23 May 03 | Africa MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat Mars starts using animal products Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris Brazilian guilty of US nun murder Most popular now, in detail 'No evidence' for Algarve arrest New doubt cast on Woolmer murder Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies Most popular now, in detail Can the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out...
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/world/europe/6656997.stm	BBC NEWS | World | Europe | EU states start tussle on treaty Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Tuesday, 15 May 2007, 10:13 GMT 11:13 UK E-mail this to a friend EU states start tussle on treaty Angela Merkel's country holds the rotating EU presidency Representatives of the 27 EU member states are meeting in Berlin to seek a way forward on the contentious issue of constitutional reform. German Chancellor Angela Merkel is leading the negotiations and wants agreement on a text to be adopted at an EU summit at the end of June. French and Dutch voters rejected a proposed treaty two years ago. Most member states would like to see something like the old constitution re-packaged and put forward again. But there is strong opposition to such a move from Britain, Poland and the Czech Republic, and many member states understand that such a document would trigger referendums that would be unlikely to approve a new constitution. The Germans made clear that they wanted to see the outline of a reform treaty agreed at the summit in June, when they took up the presidency of the EU at the beginning of this year. But uncertainty over who would be the French president has made the consultation process a little hollow so far. Now it begins in earnest. High-level officials from the 27 member states are meeting in the German capital and start the manoeuvrings over who will accept what have started. E-mail this to a friend EU close to roaming charge deal EU states start tussle on treaty EU welcomes Malta bird reprieve MEPs demand new lorry mirrors Cold War workers challenge Denmark over B52 crash Time to tax the carbon dodgers Guide to the best euromyths Mark Mardell on how to judge Tony Blair by his European allies THE UK AND EUROPE EU changes rules on bread sizes Group claims EU imperial victory UK attacked over savings scandal A timeline of the EU Q&A: EU constitution's future US to ignore Russia missile fears Chirac bids farewell urging unity Serbia MPs approve new coalition MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat Mars starts using animal products Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris Brazilian guilty of US nun murder Most popular now, in detail 'No evidence' for Algarve arrest New doubt cast on Woolmer murder Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies Most popular now, in detail Can the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out... Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/sport1/hi/football/eng_prem/6657697.stm	BBC SPORT | Football | Premiership | Fifa chief wades into Tevez saga Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Match of the Day Tuesday, 15 May 2007, 14:33 GMT 15:33 UK E-mail this to a friend Fifa chief wades into Tevez saga The West Ham saga has prompted concern from Fifa Fifa president Sepp Blatter says he will look into how the Premier League handled West Ham's breach of rules. West Ham were fined £5.5m for irregularities over the signing of Carlos Tevez and Javier Mascherano but they escaped a points deduction. Blatter said he is "monitoring the situation very carefully". But Fifa has told BBC Five Live Sport that it is not re-examining the evidence with the aim of testing the Premier League's ruling. West Ham broke two Premier League rules by entering into a private agreement with a third-party company when they signed Argentine pair Tevez and Mascherano in August last year. What do you think Fifa are going to do? Mascherano has since moved to Liverpool, while Tevez stayed in London and played an influential role in West Ham's successful battle against relegation - scoring seven goals in the club's last 10 games. Sheffield United, who went down on the final day of the season, are leading the fight against an independent commission's decision not to punish the Hammers with a points deduction. The Blades, who are being supported by the likes of Wigan, Fulham, Charlton and Middlesbrough, are also concerned that West Ham may still have been breaking Premier League rules after the ruling on 27 April. The Premier League has argued that it has no case to answer in regards to West Ham's punishment because all 20 Premiership clubs agreed to the disciplinary system in place. However, that has not stopped Sheffield United pursuing their case and Blatter's intervention may encourage them. A Premier League statement later read: "We have implemented our rulebook and processes to the letter in this matter and we are more than happy to give Fifa any assurances or explanations they need." West Ham did 'cancel' Tevez deal 14 May 07 | Premiership Whelan calls for new Tevez charge 14 May 07 | Premiership 09 May 07 | Premiership Wigan 0-3 West Ham 28 Apr 07 | Premiership West Ham not to appeal over fine 09 May 07 | West Ham Utd Clubs warned over Tevez legal bid 09 May 07 | Premiership Lamb baffled at Hammers ruling 09 May 07 | Middlesbrough Quartet may fight West Ham ruling 04 May 07 | Premiership West Ham receive Tevez clearance 28 Apr 07 | West Ham Utd West Ham handed record £5.5m fine 27 Apr 07 | West Ham Utd Football on the BBC Your say - 606 Radio Five Live commentaries BBC Sport club pages The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites BBC PRODUCTS AND SERVICES Daily and weekly e-mails Back to top ^^ Privacy & Cookies Policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/middle_east/6658799.stm	BBC NEWS | World | Middle East | Israel Jerusalem policy condemned Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Tuesday, 15 May 2007, 15:50 GMT 16:50 UK E-mail this to a friend Israel Jerusalem policy condemned Israel has built an outer ring of settlements around East Jerusalem The international Red Cross has privately accused Israel of reshaping Jerusalem to further its own interests, in violation of international law. A leaked ICRC report says Israeli policy has far-reaching humanitarian consequences for Palestinians living under occupation in East Jerusalem. Israel captured East Jerusalem in 1967, and the territory is regarded as occupied land under international law. But Israel rejects this, and says the report's premise is, therefore, wrong. The report says Israel shows "general disregard" for its obligations under international humanitarian law and the law of military occupation in particular. Violations that change the status of East Jerusalem include the West Bank barrier, an outer ring of Jewish settlements around the city and roads to connect Israeli districts and settlements, the report says. An ICRC spokesman confirmed that leaked quotations in a US newspaper were from a confidential report transmitted in February 2007 to Israel and some other governments. The leak comes a day before Israel marks 40 years, according to the Jewish calendar, since its capture of East Jerusalem from Jordanian control, in the 1967 war. "We reject the premise of the report," said Israeli foreign ministry spokesman Mark Regev. "East Jerusalem is not occupied land, it is part of Israel. All people there were offered full Israeli citizenship." Israel's unilateral moves in Jerusalem have been condemned by several UN Security Council Resolutions. US and EU ambassadors have boycotted ceremonies in the run-up to Israel's Jerusalem Day on Wednesday, arguing that the status of the city should be determined by negotiations with the Palestinians. E-mail this to a friend Gaza faction boosts police ranks Gaza factions 'agree new truce' UK Palestinians in Johnston plea BBC's Johnston wins press award Weapons and bullets, not politicians, are doing the talking in Gaza 'Wake-up call' for Israel Wave of discontent in Israel Timeline: Alan Johnston missing Palestinian rivals: Fatah & Hamas Israeli views on Halutz International Committee of the Red Cross The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites TOP MIDDLE EAST STORIES Gaza faction boosts police ranks Iran 'steps up nuclear work' Israel Jerusalem policy condemned MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat Mars starts using animal products Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris Brazilian guilty of US nun murder Most popular now, in detail 'No evidence' for Algarve arrest New doubt cast on Woolmer murder Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies Most popular now, in detail Can the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out... Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/europe/6660113.stm	BBC NEWS | World | Europe | Serbia MPs approve new coalition Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Tuesday, 15 May 2007, 21:44 GMT 22:44 UK E-mail this to a friend Serbia MPs approve new coalition The Serbian parliament has given its approval for the formation of a coalition government. The government received 133 votes in the 250-seat house in a ballot that beat a midnight deadline by just half an hour. Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica had agreed last Friday to a coalition with President Boris Tadic. Serbia's attempts to join the European Union and prevent independence for Kosovo will be high on its agenda. E-mail this to a friend Get the latest breaking news delivered to your desktop or mobile device US to ignore Russia missile fears Chirac bids farewell urging unity Serbia MPs approve new coalition MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat Mars starts using animal products Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris Brazilian guilty of US nun murder Most popular now, in detail 'No evidence' for Algarve arrest New doubt cast on Woolmer murder Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies Most popular now, in detail Can the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out... Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/world/europe/6657981.stm	BBC NEWS | World | Europe | EU close to roaming charge deal Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Tuesday, 15 May 2007, 16:56 GMT 17:56 UK E-mail this to a friend EU close to roaming charge deal Roaming charges are now as high as one euro per minute European Union member states and members of the European Parliament have reached a preliminary deal on cutting mobile roaming charges. Under the deal, it would cost a maximum of 49 euro cents (£0.34, $0.66) to call home from another EU state, and 24 cents to receive a call. These caps would drop a little in 2008, and more in 2009. If MEPs and European telecoms ministers formally back the deal the new prices could come into force over the summer. A vote is expected next Wednesday in the European Parliament, while telecoms ministers are due to consider the package on 7 June. The European Commission warned the industry in 2004 that it was overcharging customers for roaming, and presented its plan to cap prices last year. Roaming in the EU can often cost one euro a minute. A Maltese calling home from Latvia can pay as much as 11.21 euros (£7.68) for a four-minute conversation. c German EU presidency: c German EU presidency: Charges per minute, excluding VAT Case study: EU roaming law The EU's German presidency had pushed for price caps of 60 cents to make a call, and 30 cents to receive one. The European Parliament originally wanted caps of 40 cents and 15 cents. "I hope this package can deliver for consumers this summer," said Austrian MEP Paul Ruebig, who led the negotiations for the parliament. British MEP Giles Chichester said he expected operators to compete with each other to be the first to offer the new rate. "I would be astonished if mobile operators do not take the hint," he said. Telephone companies will have one month from the time the regulation is published in the official journal - probably in mid-June - to offer customers the new pricing plan. So consumers will be able to enjoy the new rates in mid-July if they reply to the offer promptly. Three months after the regulation comes into force, consumers will be switched to the new rate automatically, unless they have deliberately chosen a different package. The price ceilings would drop in 2008 to 46 cents for making calls abroad and 22 cents for receiving them, the negotiators agreed. In 2009 they would drop further, to 43 cents and 19 cents respectively. After three years, the caps would be lifted. The telecoms industry has warned that mobile phone users in Europe could face higher domestic charges, if roaming charges are forced down too much. "We're disappointed. The price caps are very low, they leave no room for competition below those levels. They will become the standard tariff," said David Pringle, spokesman for the GSM Association, which groups together Europe's mobile phone operators. He added that informing all customers of their tariff choices would be a "huge exercise in logistics". E-mail this to a friend EU close to roaming charge deal EU states start tussle on treaty EU welcomes Malta bird reprieve MEPs demand new lorry mirrors Cold War workers challenge Denmark over B52 crash Time to tax the carbon dodgers Guide to the best euromyths Mark Mardell on how to judge Tony Blair by his European allies THE UK AND EUROPE EU changes rules on bread sizes Group claims EU imperial victory UK attacked over savings scandal A timeline of the EU Q&A: EU constitution's future Get the latest breaking news delivered to your desktop or mobile device US to ignore Russia missile fears Chirac bids farewell urging unity Serbia MPs approve new coalition MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat Mars starts using animal products Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris Brazilian guilty of US nun murder Most popular now, in detail 'No evidence' for Algarve arrest New doubt cast on Woolmer murder Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies Most popular now, in detail Can the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out... Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/europe/6658009.stm	BBC NEWS | World | Europe | Chirac bids farewell urging unity Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Tuesday, 15 May 2007, 19:41 GMT 20:41 UK E-mail this to a friend Chirac bids farewell urging unity Mr Chirac has been president of France since 1995 French President Jacques Chirac has bid farewell to the nation he has led for more than a decade, in a televised address to the country. Mr Chirac, whose political career spanned four decades, said he was "proud of a duty well accomplished". He expressed "great confidence in the future of France" and wished his successor - his rival Nicolas Sarkozy - best wishes for his new role. The 74-year-old will formally hand over power to Mr Sarkozy on Wednesday. Mr Chirac urged his compatriots to "always stand united" in what analysts said recalled one of the low points of his tenure - the 2005 race riots that spread from Paris to other major cities. "A nation is a family. This link that unites us is our most precious asset," he said. The outgoing president said he was convinced France would remain at the forefront of European affairs. "France will show itself to be an exemplary nation, a nation which drives the building of Europe, a generous nation," he said in his final address from the Elysee Palace. Mr Chirac's apartment in Paris will be guarded by French police He said the three key challenges faced by the world were peace, development and the environment and pledged to use his influence to ensure these remain at the top of the political agenda. "I will continue in my struggles," he said, "I will contribute my experience to make specific projects progress - both in France and beyond." Mr Chirac plans to establish a foundation devoted to saving the environment and promoting cross-cultural dialogue. The foundation, which is to bear his name, will be launched this autumn as part of Mr Chirac's pledge to serve France "in a different manner". Run on private funds, it will resemble that set up by former US President Bill Clinton. Earlier on Tuesday, Mr Chirac accepted the resignation of Prime Minister Dominique de Villepin, a move which clears the way for Nicolas Sarkozy to nominate a new government later this week. The next French prime minister is widely expected to be moderate conservative Francois Fillon, who could take office as early as Thursday morning. Mr Chirac will leave the Elysee for good on Wednesday after a ceremony transferring power to Mr Sarkozy at 1100 (0900 GMT). He will also hand over the launch codes of France's nuclear arsenal. After stepping down, Mr Chirac will be given an office paid for by the state and a pension of 19,000 euros ($26,000) per month. As a former head of state, he will also become a member of France's highest constitutional authority, the Constitutional Council. The president's retirement may be overshadowed, however, by the prospect of being questioned by a judge investigating an illegal party-funding scheme dating back to his 18 years as mayor of Paris. Under French law, Mr Chirac's presidential immunity will expire on 16 June, one month after he leaves office. E-mail this to a friend France looks to new Sarkozy era World reacts to Sarkozy's win Media hope for unity Sarkozy: Victory speech excerpts What are Nicolas Sarkozy's priorities after his inauguration on 16 May? The new face of France French voters bucking trends France split on 35-hour week Ghettos mobilise for poll Voters' give their views Royal v Sarkozy: The policies French election: Your reaction Read our panel's verdicts US to ignore Russia missile fears Chirac bids farewell urging unity Serbia MPs approve new coalition MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat Mars starts using animal products Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris Brazilian guilty of US nun murder Most popular now, in detail 'No evidence' for Algarve arrest New doubt cast on Woolmer murder Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies Most popular now, in detail Can the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out... Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/world/south_asia/6659461.stm	BBC NEWS | World | South Asia | India eyes north-east oil and gas Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Tuesday, 15 May 2007, 17:45 GMT 18:45 UK E-mail this to a friend India eyes north-east oil and gas India's state-owned Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC) is to invest nearly 90bn rupees ($2bn) in oil and gas projects in the country's north-east. ONGC chairman RS Sharma made the announcement during a tour of the region on Tuesday. He said the corporation would drill 140 oil wells in Assam and more than 80 in other states over the next five years. Most oil wells in Assam are several decades old and ONGC wants to modernise as well as find new deposits, he said. "We will involve top global companies like Halliburton to help us in the Assam renewal project. We want to reverse the trend of declining output from matured oil fields in Assam," said Mr Sharma. The ONGC, which produces about 1.6m tonnes of crude oil annually in Assam, hopes to nearly double its production with the additional investments. Indian troops face separatist insurgencies in many states "We expect to produce about 3m tonnes of crude oil with the investments used in drilling wells and associated pipelines, besides revamping existing facilities," Mr Sharma told journalists in Assam's capital, Guwahati. India produces about 30m tonnes of crude oil annually, with Assam accounting for about 5m tonnes of the total. Oil India Limited (OIL) produces about 3.5m tonnes of crude in Assam annually. Assam has more than 1.3bn tonnes of proven crude oil and 156bn cubic metres of natural gas reserves, more than half of which are yet to be explored. The state accounts for nearly 50% of the country's on-shore crude oil production. "Assam has the highest success ratio in the world with 70% of the exploration sites yielding oil," said ONGC's director of exploration DK Pande. The ONGC will also start exploration in Nagaland state by October this year after more than a decade. It was forced to stop operations in the mid-1990s after separatist rebels threatened to attack its facilities. The rebels are now negotiating with the Indian government. The ONGC will also start drilling several wells in Mizoram state on the border with Burma this year. These blocks are said to be rich in both oil and gas. E-mail this to a friend Pipelines damaged in India blasts 10 Jun 06 | South Asia The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites TOP SOUTH ASIA STORIES Many killed in Pakistan bombing New doubt cast on Woolmer murder India eyes north-east oil and gas MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat Mars starts using animal products Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris Brazilian guilty of US nun murder Most popular now, in detail 'No evidence' for Algarve arrest New doubt cast on Woolmer murder Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies Most popular now, in detail Can the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out... Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/world/americas/6659959.stm	BBC NEWS | World | Americas | Brazilian guilty of US nun murder Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Tuesday, 15 May 2007, 20:48 GMT 21:48 UK E-mail this to a friend Brazilian guilty of US nun murder Dorothy Stang was shot at point-blank range A Brazilian rancher has been found guilty of killing US-born nun and environmental activist Dorothy Stang. A court in the city of Belem sentenced Vitalmiro Bastos Moura, 36, to 30 years for paying gunmen to shoot the 73-year-old missionary dead in 2005. Sister Dorothy campaigned for poor farmers' rights and to preserve the rainforest from loggers and developers. Her murder followed a dispute with ranchers over land they wanted to clear for pasture and she wanted to protect. Judge Raymond Moises Alves Flexa imposed the maximum sentence. He said Moura had showed "a violent personality unsuited to living in society" and that the killing had been carried out in a "cowardly manner". Activists saw the trial as a test of whether the government could act to curb lawlessness in the Amazon. Dorothy Stang's brother David, who was at the trial, said "justice was done". Prosecutors said Mr Moura had ordered Sister Dorothy's killing because she had sent letters to the local authorities accusing him of setting illegal fires to clear land, which led to him receiving a substantial fine. The Ohio-born nun had lived in the remote town of Anapu for more than 20 years, helping peasant farmers defend their land. She was found dead on a muddy track in February 2005, shot six times at close range. Three men - two gunmen and an intermediary - have already been convicted for the killing, but this was the first trial of someone who ordered it. Another rancher charged with ordering the killing goes on trial later in the year. In the past 30 years, more than 1,000 people have been killed in land disputes in Brazil, the BBC's Brazil correspondent Gary Duffy says - more than 770 of those in the state of Para. E-mail this to a friend Rancher denies US nun's killing 14 May 07 | Americas Court frees Stang murder suspect 29 Jun 06 | Americas Third man jailed for US nun death 27 Apr 06 | Americas Amazon nun's killers are jailed 11 Dec 05 | Americas 'No impunity' for Amazon killers 22 Feb 05 | Americas Murder prompts Brazil Amazon curb 18 Feb 05 | Americas Brazil farmers bury activist nun 16 Feb 05 | Americas The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites World Bank hears Wolfowitz case Brazilian guilty of US nun murder US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat Mars starts using animal products Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris Brazilian guilty of US nun murder Most popular now, in detail 'No evidence' for Algarve arrest New doubt cast on Woolmer murder Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies Most popular now, in detail Can the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out... Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/world/americas/6658547.stm	BBC NEWS | World | Americas | New doubt cast on Woolmer murder Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Tuesday, 15 May 2007, 17:48 GMT 18:48 UK E-mail this to a friend New doubt cast on Woolmer murder Mr Woolmer was found dead in his hotel in Jamaica on 18 March Pakistan cricket coach Bob Woolmer was not strangled, a UK government pathologist has concluded, according to the Times newspaper. Dr Nat Carey said after studying autopsy material that death was not by asphyxiation from strangling, it said. The Jamaica Gleaner newspaper has separately cited Scotland Yard sources as saying Mr Woolmer was not murdered. Mr Woolmer was found dead in his hotel in Jamaica after Pakistan's first-round exit from the World Cup. The comments from the UK sources led Jamaican opposition lawmaker Derrick Smith to say the case had become a "global embarrassment" for the Caribbean nation. There have been a number of contradictory claims about the cause of Mr Woolmer's death since his body was found on 18 March. On Tuesday, Jamaican deputy police commissioner Mark Shields again insisted the case was being treated as a murder investigation. The Times was citing sources close to the investigation of Dr Carey. It said there was growing speculation that death was by natural causes, although it gave no new information on what may have led to Mr Woolmer's death. The results of toxicology tests are still awaited but the Times said they might indicate the levels of a herbicide said to have been found in his body. [The media should] refrain from speculation because of the additional distress it places upon the Woolmer family The herbicide is used for weeding cricket pitches. The tests may show whether the level was sufficient to have triggered the sickness and diarrhoea Mr Woolmer suffered before death, it said. Heart trouble has been suggested as another cause for the death of Mr Woolmer, 58, who also suffered from diabetes. The original autopsy said Mr Woolmer may have suffered manual strangulation, indicated by a broken bone in his neck. UK authorities were asked to help with the investigation. The Jamaica Gleaner said Scotland Yard's pathology report said Mr Woolmer "died of natural causes and not manual strangulation as was initially reported by Mark Shields". The paper said the report contradicted that of the local pathologist, Dr Ere Sheshiah. Jamaican police spokesman Karl Angell said such press reports were "unhelpful" and urged the media "to refrain from speculation because of the additional distress it places upon the Woolmer family". Mr Shields said: "Every theory, from weed killer to aconite, has come from the media, not the police... We maintain that this is an ongoing murder investigation." Derrick Smith, of the Jamaica Labour Party, said the case had jeopardised the reputation of the nation's police. "The matter has become a global embarrassment for us," he said. No-one has yet been arrested in connection with Mr Woolmer's death, which overshadowed the cricket World Cup. Investigations have included the possibility of murder by a disgruntled fan, player or by figures concerned Mr Woolmer was going to make allegations of corruption. E-mail this to a friend Full transcript of the last interview Woolmer gave the BBC Cricket coach's body is released South Africa service for Woolmer Pakistan holds Woolmer memorial No new Woolmer post-mortem The shadow over cricket World press mulls murder Test Match Special podcast The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites World Bank hears Wolfowitz case Brazilian guilty of US nun murder US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat Mars starts using animal products Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris Brazilian guilty of US nun murder Most popular now, in detail 'No evidence' for Algarve arrest New doubt cast on Woolmer murder Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies Most popular now, in detail Can the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out... Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/africa/6656753.stm	BBC NEWS | World | Africa | Ethiopia warned on Somali pullout Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Tuesday, 15 May 2007, 12:41 GMT 13:41 UK E-mail this to a friend Ethiopia warned on Somali pullout Some 1,700 AU troops are already in Somalia The US and the African Union have warned Ethiopia not to withdraw its troops from Somalia before peacekeepers are deployed to replace them. AU commission chief Alpha Oumar Konare says it would be a "catastrophe" if Ethiopia pulled out too soon. US Africa envoy Jendayi Frazer said it would probably be several months before the full peacekeeping force arrived. Ethiopia's prime minister says he wants to withdraw all his troops, after they helped oust Islamists. Up to a third of the population fled recent fighting in the capital, Mogadishu, and badly need aid. Stability will remain elusive... The chaos we are seeing is caused by Western interference Send us your comments Less than 40% of the estimated 300,000 displaced Somalis are receiving any help, according to UN humanitarian relief chief John Holmes. After a visit to Mogadishu, he said Somalia now represents a worse displacement crisis than Sudan's Darfur region. Ethiopian Prime Minister Meles Zenawi said he wanted to end the "onerous" financial burden of having Ethiopian troops, estimated to be several thousand in number, in Somalia. "Things have improved significantly in Mogadishu, making it possible for peacekeeping troops to do their job," he said. Clan rivalries behind violence Doctor's story: 'Too many patients' "I very much hope and expect that those African countries that have promised to send troops will do so." Mr Konare told the AFP news agency that Ethiopia must wait for the AU forces. "If Ethiopia withdrew from Somalia today, it would be a catastrophe," he said. He said Ethiopia had done the job of the AU but its continued presence could "block political dialogue" in Somalia. But Ms Frazer said that an Ethiopian withdrawal before the AU troops arrived would lead to a security vacuum. "It would be a mistake for Ethiopia to withdraw. That said, we certainly want them to withdraw from Somalia as soon as possible," she told the BBC's Newshour programme. Ethiopia has twice fought border wars with Somalia and is widely distrusted there. So far, Uganda has sent 1,700 peacekeepers but the AU says another 6,300 troops are needed. Nigeria, Burundi and Ghana have all promised to contribute to the AU force. Mr Meles said the "organised resistance" of the Islamists had now been "broken". The Ethiopia-backed government says it is in control of Mogadishu after what is seen as the worst fighting in 16 years in the city. But gunmen attacked a World Health Organization office in the city on Monday night, injuring a guard, WHO officials say. Aid workers have accused authorities of hindering the passage of food aid at checkpoints set up across Mogadishu. "We estimate that we are only reach 35 to 40% of those in need," Mr Holmes said. Mr Holmes described conditions in Mogadishu as "depressing" "Many are already suffering from a cholera outbreak." Mr Holmes said international law had been violated by the fighting factions in the city, saying that some citizens had disappeared without explanation. "Clearly, human rights abuses have taken place, but the government categorically denied reports and accusations of their involvement," he said. He said the government had promised to co-operate with a planned UN investigation into the reports. Mr Holmes, the most senior UN official to visit the city in more than a decade, had to cut short his trip on Saturday, after bombs exploded in Mogadishu, killing three people. Somalia has been without an effective national government for 16 years, controlled by rival militias and awash with guns. E-mail this to a friend VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS Ethiopian PM is 'eager for troops to withdraw' Somali traders who survived clashes now face city clean-up Somalia - 'a depressing prospect' Clan rivalries behind violence Timeline: Ethiopia and Somalia Quick guide: Islamic Courts Can Somalia achieve stability? International Committee of the Red Cross The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Ethiopia warned on Somali pullout Cameroon's crash pilot 'warned' Locals seize Nigeria oil facility MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat Mars starts using animal products Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris Brazilian guilty of US nun murder Most popular now, in detail 'No evidence' for Algarve arrest New doubt cast on Woolmer murder Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies Most popular now, in detail Can the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out... Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/asia-pacific/6656417.stm	BBC NEWS | World | Asia-Pacific | Japan boy 'severs mother's head' Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Tuesday, 15 May 2007, 10:52 GMT 11:52 UK E-mail this to a friend Japan boy 'severs mother's head' A teenage Japanese boy has been arrested after walking into a police station carrying a severed human head and claiming to have killed his mother. The 17-year-old went to a police station in the town of Aizuwakamatsu, north of Tokyo, carrying the head in a sports bag, Japanese media said. The beheaded body of a woman was later found at the boy's home, police said. This is the latest in a series of grisly killings in Japan, a country renowned for its low crime rate. On Monday a severed human leg was discovered in a small river in central Tokyo. In January, a 32-year-old woman was arrested after she confessed to killing her husband, dismembering him with a saw and dumping body parts around Tokyo. In the latest case, the boy, said to be a local high school student, reportedly told police he killed his mother with a knife during the night as she slept, and had acted alone. Japanese press said the boy lived with his young brother, separately from their parents. Their mother was believed to have been visiting them on Monday. The teenager was reported to have undergone psychiatric treatment at some point in the past. Chief Cabinet Secretary Yasuhisa Shiozaki expressed his alarm at the reports. "If it's true, it's horrifying," he said. Aizuwakamatsu is located in Fukushima prefecture, some 200km (125 miles) north of Tokyo. E-mail this to a friend The 'beast with a human face' 24 Apr 07 | Asia-Pacific Man cleared over death of Lucie 24 Apr 07 | Asia-Pacific Japan in shock at school murder 02 Jun 04 | Asia-Pacific 18 Apr 07 | Country profiles Violence mars Philippine count Japan boy 'severs mother's head' Russia and Burma in nuclear deal MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat Mars starts using animal products Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris Brazilian guilty of US nun murder Most popular now, in detail 'No evidence' for Algarve arrest New doubt cast on Woolmer murder Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies Most popular now, in detail Can the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out... Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://www.bbc.co.uk/syndication/	BBC Headlines for your site Put the latest headlines on your website, free of charge. Whether you are an experienced webmaster, or running a website for friends and family, adding a BBC News, BBC Sport, or CBBC Headline Box is simple with our four-step process, which you can complete online. Are you eligible to sign-up? The BBC Headline Boxes are available to all public access (no intranets), UK-based sites, subject to certain criteria. Click to read the criteria. If you then wish to apply, click the 'Sign up here' button. BBC News makes most of its news sections avalable in two XML formats - RSS and BBC News XML. If you would like to discuss either of these options with a Business Development manager, please complete the form below. Please select from the options below Please enter any additional information: Please enter your e-mail address: I would like to report a problem I would like to discuss RSS/XML Privacy & Cookies Policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/sport1/hi/tennis/6658139.stm	BBC SPORT | Tennis | Murray likely to miss French Open Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Tuesday, 15 May 2007, 16:37 GMT 17:37 UK E-mail this to a friend Murray likely to miss French Open Murray's career has been blighted by injuries Andy Murray seems almost certain to miss this month's French Open after suffering tendon damage to his wrist in the first round of the Hamburg Masters. On his 20th birthday, he was leading Italian Filippo Volandri 5-1 when he suffered the injury to his right wrist. Murray had an MRI scan in hospital and is awaiting the full results but he confirmed he has not broken any bones. "I'll probably have a cast on it for a few days. It's not looking great if I'm realistic but you never know," he said. "I don't know what will happen exactly - we'll probably announce something in the next few days." I was playing awesome - probably the best I'd played this year Five Live tennis correspondent Jonathan Overend said that the fact there is no fracture improves Murray's chances of recovering in time for Wimbledon, which starts on 25 June. The French Open, the second Grand Slam of the season, gets under way on 27 May. Murray, the ninth seed, was desperate to kick-start his clay court campaign after missing Monte Carlo with a back injury and suffering a first-round defeat in Rome last week. He won the first three games without dropping a point and broke Volandri three times in surging to within one game of taking the set. However, he seemed to jar his wrist as he played a routine forehand before dropping his racquet and crying out in pain. Give your reaction to Murray's injury He returned after a 10-minute break but crumpled altogether following his next attempted forehand. "I hit the forehand and as soon as I hit it I knew something wasn't right," Murray explained. "I was playing awesome - probably the best I'd played this year - without a doubt the best I'd felt on court. "I was moving well and showing the improvements I'd made from last year. It's a little bit disappointing to miss the clay court season but I look forward to the next one." The injury-prone Murray has only completed one match on the ATP Tour since reaching the semi-finals of the Miami Masters Series in March. "I try to be optimistic and try to get back on court as soon as possible. I've had a bad run of luck with injuries - it happens to everyone at some point," he added. "It's been one thing after another but nothing too serious and hopefully this one won't be too bad either." Volandri will go on to face Jose Acasuso of Argentina after he beat Spain's Guillermo Garcia-Lopez 6-3 6-4 in an earlier match on Tuesday. The 1998 French Open champion Carlos Moya beat American Mardy Fish 6-0 6-3 to set up a meeting with Tomas Berdych of the Czech Republic. Nicolas Almagro upset sixth-seeded Tommy Robredo 6-7 (1-7) 6-2 6-4 in the second round. Ivan Ljubicic rallied to beat Florent Serra of France 4-6 6-2 6-2 and will next play David Ferrer, who struggled before beating Robin Soderling of Sweden 1-6 6-3 6-2. Gamewatch: Murray v Volandri 15 May 07 | Tennis Murray reveals Davis Cup doubts 15 May 07 | Tennis 16 Jan 06 | Skills The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites FROM OTHER SPORT SITES Murray faces Wimbledon KO - 3 hrs ago Sad Murray suffers injury anguish - 5 hrs ago Injury forces Murray out, Moya reels in Fish - 6 hrs ago Birthday boy Murray pulls out injured in Hamburg - 6 hrs ago Davis Cup doubt - 8 hrs ago BBC PRODUCTS AND SERVICES Daily and weekly e-mails Back to top ^^ Privacy & Cookies Policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/world/africa/6659179.stm	BBC NEWS | World | Africa | Cameroon's crash pilot 'warned' Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Tuesday, 15 May 2007, 17:11 GMT 18:11 UK E-mail this to a friend Cameroon's crash pilot 'warned' The Kenya Airways plane came down in dense mangrove swamps The pilot of the plane that crashed in Cameroon earlier this month was warned about the stormy weather, Cameroon's Civil Aviation Authority head has said. "The control tower gave all the meteorological information to the commander of the flight... he decided to take off," Ignatius Sama Juma said. Kenya Airways Boeing 737 crashed into swampland soon after take-off from Douala, killing all 114 passengers. The official inquiry is yet to report on the cause of the disaster. So far the data recorder has been recovered, but not the voice recorder. Flight data recorders and cockpit voice recorders contain a wide variety of information, including speed and altitude as well as cockpit voice communications. People from at least 23 nations had been travelling on board flight KQ 507 which took off in heavy rain en route to the Kenyan capital, Nairobi, on Saturday 5 May. Mr Sama Juma said two other planes had also been due to leave that night, but waited until the weather conditions improved. Search parties took nearly two days to locate the wreckage. The distress beacon was found on Tuesday, state media reports. The BBC's Randy Joe Sa'ah, in Cameroon, says there has been growing anger about the slow recovery process among the families of the victims. E-mail this to a friend Cameroon villagers hunt for bodies 07 May 07 | Africa Grief and confusion in Kenya 07 May 07 | Africa In pictures: Cameroon crash scene 07 May 07 | In Pictures UK team to aid air crash families 07 May 07 | UK Cameroon air crash site located 06 May 07 | Africa Britons on missing airliner named 06 May 07 | UK Kenya plane 'crashes in Cameroon' 05 May 07 | Africa 05 May 07 | Europe How safe is it to fly in Africa? 15 Dec 05 | Africa The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Ethiopia warned on Somali pullout Cameroon's crash pilot 'warned' Locals seize Nigeria oil facility MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat Mars starts using animal products Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris Brazilian guilty of US nun murder Most popular now, in detail 'No evidence' for Algarve arrest New doubt cast on Woolmer murder Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies Most popular now, in detail Can the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out... Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/world/europe/6658633.stm	BBC NEWS | World | Europe | US to ignore Russia missile fears Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Tuesday, 15 May 2007, 16:56 GMT 17:56 UK E-mail this to a friend US to ignore Russia missile fears Russia and the US defined their differences but did not resolve them The US will not allow Russia to stop it from deploying anti-missile defences in Europe, US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice has said in Moscow. "I don't think anyone expects the United States to permit a veto on American security interests," she said after meeting President Vladimir Putin. Earlier, they agreed to tone down the rhetoric in public exchanges. These were the first talks since February when Mr Putin accused the US of seeking global dominance. Washington is not seeking confrontation, but wants Moscow's co-operation over sensitive issues such as Kosovo, Iran and missile defence, the BBC's defence and security correspondent Rob Watson says. But the agreement to tone down the rhetoric does not mask the continuing differences and the sense in Moscow that Washington has long been ignoring legitimate Russian concerns, our correspondent says. Ms Rice held talks on Tuesday with Mr Putin, Russian Security Council Secretary Igor Ivanov, Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov, former Prime Minister Yevgeny Primakov and Russian civic leaders. The two sides are divided over several issues, including the missile defence shield plan. She defended her position on US missile plans, saying: "The United States needs to be able to move forward, to use technology to defend itself, and we're going to do that." We did talk about the need to keep the temperature down But she also said: "If there are concerns about how the United States has and is continuing to exercise power, absolutely, we can have that discussion." Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said his country's "stance on missile defence was reaffirmed", but maintained it had been a "candid and friendly conversation". "[Mr Putin] supported the understanding by the American side that rhetoric in public exchanges should be toned down and we should focus on concrete issues," local media quoted Mr Lavrov as saying after the talks. And Ms Rice agreed that the two sides had talked "about the need to keep the temperature down". The US opened talks with Poland on Monday over its plans to locate part of its defence shield on Polish soil. The US wants 10 interceptor rockets there to destroy any long-range ballistic missiles fired at the US from the Middle East. How the defence system works Warsaw has indicated it will back the plan if it improves Poland's security. The US also wants a radar base in the Czech Republic. The Kremlin has also expressed opposition to Washington's backing for the independence of Kosovo from Serbia. Russia believes Kosovo should remain part of Serbia. "It was agreed to search for a solution on Kosovo that would be acceptable for all, but there is no such solution immediately in sight," Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said. For her part, Ms Rice has criticised what she sees as democratic setbacks in Mr Putin's Russia. E-mail this to a friend VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS What Condoleezza Rice has said about the plans No breakthrough for US and Russia 15 May 07 | Europe Rice rejects 'new Cold War' talk 14 May 07 | Europe Putin attacks 'very dangerous' US 10 Feb 07 | Europe Echoes of Cold War in missile arguments 23 Apr 07 | Europe Q&A: US missile defence 23 Feb 07 | Americas The politics of missile defence 23 Feb 07 | UK How US missile defence system works 22 Jun 06 | Americas Russian government (in Russian) US Department of Defense The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites US to ignore Russia missile fears Chirac bids farewell urging unity Serbia MPs approve new coalition MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat Mars starts using animal products Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris Brazilian guilty of US nun murder Most popular now, in detail 'No evidence' for Algarve arrest New doubt cast on Woolmer murder Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies Most popular now, in detail Can the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out... Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/world/south_asia/6656933.stm	BBC NEWS | World | South Asia | Many killed in Pakistan bombing Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Tuesday, 15 May 2007, 14:33 GMT 15:33 UK E-mail this to a friend Many killed in Pakistan bombing The lunchtime blast caused massive destruction. A powerful bomb blast in a hotel in the centre of the north-western Pakistani city of Peshawar has killed at least 24 people, police and officials say. The ground-floor blast demolished parts of the four-storey Marhaba hotel near a busy market, trapping people inside. Up to 30 people were injured, officials said. Ambulances and hand-pushed carts were used to ferry them to hospital. The motive for the attack is not known. Peshawar has seen many recent attacks, some causing serious loss of life. The Marhaba, in Peshawar's old city, is popular with tribal visitors from Afghanistan. I tried to visit the site but there was huge rush of people and every one was panicking... It was terrible In pictures: Bomb carnage Police say the blast happened at lunchtime in the reception lobby when the hotel was crowded with diners. One man, Muhammad Ibrahim, told the BBC of his near escape. "I was entering the hotel when suddenly [there was] a huge bomb blast cracking everything around." Another spoke of panic in the area, and of the dead and injured being taken to the nearby Lady Reading hospital. Hassan Khan, a waiter in the hotel, said he survived only because he was taking food to guests in their rooms at the time of the blast. "I lost my senses, and when I came round and ran to see, there were dead bodies and body parts everywhere, even out in the street," he told the Associated Press news agency. Many people were wounded in the explosion He said the Afghan owner of the restaurant, his two sons and two other relatives were among the dead. Seven employees had also been killed. The blast was so powerful that it blew out at least one of the walls of the hotel. Television pictures showed shattered windows and twisted fans inside the hotel. Nearby buildings in the congested city centre also suffered damage. Local people helped get survivors out of the building and retrieve bodies. Provincial police chief Sharif Virk said at least one woman and a child were also among the dead. He called the incident terrorism, but he has not named any suspects. No group has said it carried out the attack. Mr Virk and other senior police and government officials have said they believe the attack was carried out by a suicide bomber. They say that a severed leg, possibly that of the alleged bomber, was found at the scene of the blast with a note in Pashto tied to it warning "American spies" of a similar fate. Correspondents say so far neither the leg nor the note have been shown to journalists - nor is it clear how a suicide bomber could be confident that a piece of paper would be found intact after the blast. There have been a series of explosions in Peshawar over the past year. Some have been blamed on local militants from Pakistan's nearby tribal areas, said to be taking revenge for government strikes against them. Others have been blamed on Afghan intelligence. Pakistan and Afghanistan have a history of strained relations. Last month a suicide attack near Peshawar targeted the interior minister and killed nearly 30 people. In January, a bomb in the city killed at least 14 people, most of them policemen. Correspondents say there is no indication that Tuesday's blast is linked to violence between pro-government and opposition supporters which has left more than 40 people dead in recent days in the southern city of Karachi. E-mail this to a friend Get the latest breaking news delivered to your desktop or mobile device How the top judge became centre of political opposition The judge and democracy Profile: PM Shaukat Aziz The scientist who confessed The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites TOP SOUTH ASIA STORIES Many killed in Pakistan bombing New doubt cast on Woolmer murder India eyes north-east oil and gas MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat Mars starts using animal products Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris Brazilian guilty of US nun murder Most popular now, in detail 'No evidence' for Algarve arrest New doubt cast on Woolmer murder Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies Most popular now, in detail Can the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out... Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/south_asia/6656933.stm	BBC NEWS | World | South Asia | Many killed in Pakistan bombing Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Tuesday, 15 May 2007, 14:33 GMT 15:33 UK E-mail this to a friend Many killed in Pakistan bombing The lunchtime blast caused massive destruction. A powerful bomb blast in a hotel in the centre of the north-western Pakistani city of Peshawar has killed at least 24 people, police and officials say. The ground-floor blast demolished parts of the four-storey Marhaba hotel near a busy market, trapping people inside. Up to 30 people were injured, officials said. Ambulances and hand-pushed carts were used to ferry them to hospital. The motive for the attack is not known. Peshawar has seen many recent attacks, some causing serious loss of life. The Marhaba, in Peshawar's old city, is popular with tribal visitors from Afghanistan. I tried to visit the site but there was huge rush of people and every one was panicking... It was terrible In pictures: Bomb carnage Police say the blast happened at lunchtime in the reception lobby when the hotel was crowded with diners. One man, Muhammad Ibrahim, told the BBC of his near escape. "I was entering the hotel when suddenly [there was] a huge bomb blast cracking everything around." Another spoke of panic in the area, and of the dead and injured being taken to the nearby Lady Reading hospital. Hassan Khan, a waiter in the hotel, said he survived only because he was taking food to guests in their rooms at the time of the blast. "I lost my senses, and when I came round and ran to see, there were dead bodies and body parts everywhere, even out in the street," he told the Associated Press news agency. Many people were wounded in the explosion He said the Afghan owner of the restaurant, his two sons and two other relatives were among the dead. Seven employees had also been killed. The blast was so powerful that it blew out at least one of the walls of the hotel. Television pictures showed shattered windows and twisted fans inside the hotel. Nearby buildings in the congested city centre also suffered damage. Local people helped get survivors out of the building and retrieve bodies. Provincial police chief Sharif Virk said at least one woman and a child were also among the dead. He called the incident terrorism, but he has not named any suspects. No group has said it carried out the attack. Mr Virk and other senior police and government officials have said they believe the attack was carried out by a suicide bomber. They say that a severed leg, possibly that of the alleged bomber, was found at the scene of the blast with a note in Pashto tied to it warning "American spies" of a similar fate. Correspondents say so far neither the leg nor the note have been shown to journalists - nor is it clear how a suicide bomber could be confident that a piece of paper would be found intact after the blast. There have been a series of explosions in Peshawar over the past year. Some have been blamed on local militants from Pakistan's nearby tribal areas, said to be taking revenge for government strikes against them. Others have been blamed on Afghan intelligence. Pakistan and Afghanistan have a history of strained relations. Last month a suicide attack near Peshawar targeted the interior minister and killed nearly 30 people. In January, a bomb in the city killed at least 14 people, most of them policemen. Correspondents say there is no indication that Tuesday's blast is linked to violence between pro-government and opposition supporters which has left more than 40 people dead in recent days in the southern city of Karachi. E-mail this to a friend Get the latest breaking news delivered to your desktop or mobile device How the top judge became centre of political opposition The judge and democracy Profile: PM Shaukat Aziz The scientist who confessed The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites TOP SOUTH ASIA STORIES Many killed in Pakistan bombing New doubt cast on Woolmer murder India eyes north-east oil and gas MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat Mars starts using animal products Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris Brazilian guilty of US nun murder Most popular now, in detail 'No evidence' for Algarve arrest Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat New doubt cast on Woolmer murder US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies Most popular now, in detail Can the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out... Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/americas/6659959.stm	BBC NEWS | World | Americas | Brazilian guilty of US nun murder Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Tuesday, 15 May 2007, 20:48 GMT 21:48 UK E-mail this to a friend Brazilian guilty of US nun murder Dorothy Stang was shot at point-blank range A Brazilian rancher has been found guilty of killing US-born nun and environmental activist Dorothy Stang. A court in the city of Belem sentenced Vitalmiro Bastos Moura, 36, to 30 years for paying gunmen to shoot the 73-year-old missionary dead in 2005. Sister Dorothy campaigned for poor farmers' rights and to preserve the rainforest from loggers and developers. Her murder followed a dispute with ranchers over land they wanted to clear for pasture and she wanted to protect. Judge Raymond Moises Alves Flexa imposed the maximum sentence. He said Moura had showed "a violent personality unsuited to living in society" and that the killing had been carried out in a "cowardly manner". Activists saw the trial as a test of whether the government could act to curb lawlessness in the Amazon. Dorothy Stang's brother David, who was at the trial, said "justice was done". Prosecutors said Mr Moura had ordered Sister Dorothy's killing because she had sent letters to the local authorities accusing him of setting illegal fires to clear land, which led to him receiving a substantial fine. The Ohio-born nun had lived in the remote town of Anapu for more than 20 years, helping peasant farmers defend their land. She was found dead on a muddy track in February 2005, shot six times at close range. Three men - two gunmen and an intermediary - have already been convicted for the killing, but this was the first trial of someone who ordered it. Another rancher charged with ordering the killing goes on trial later in the year. In the past 30 years, more than 1,000 people have been killed in land disputes in Brazil, the BBC's Brazil correspondent Gary Duffy says - more than 770 of those in the state of Para. E-mail this to a friend Rancher denies US nun's killing 14 May 07 | Americas Court frees Stang murder suspect 29 Jun 06 | Americas Third man jailed for US nun death 27 Apr 06 | Americas Amazon nun's killers are jailed 11 Dec 05 | Americas 'No impunity' for Amazon killers 22 Feb 05 | Americas Murder prompts Brazil Amazon curb 18 Feb 05 | Americas Brazil farmers bury activist nun 16 Feb 05 | Americas The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites World Bank hears Wolfowitz case Brazilian guilty of US nun murder US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat Mars starts using animal products Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris Brazilian guilty of US nun murder Most popular now, in detail 'No evidence' for Algarve arrest Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat New doubt cast on Woolmer murder US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies Most popular now, in detail Can the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out... Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
