http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/world/europe/11cnd-blair.html	Blair Endorses Gordon Brown as His Successor - New York Times Blair Endorses Gordon Brown as His Successor Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 LONDON, May 11 — A day after announcing that he would step down in June, Prime Minister offered a fulsome if long-delayed endorsement today of as his successor, calling him “an extraordinary and rare talent.” Skip to next paragraph Gordon Brown with his wife, Sarah, and his campaign manager, Jack Straw, left, launching his campaign for leadership of Britain's Labor Party today in London. Blair Choreographs End to a Stewardship Dogged by Iraq Then, Mr. Blair set off on what seemed a first stage of a lengthy and closely-scripted goodbye tour, even as Mr. Brown, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, planned an equally busy campaign to persuade Britons of his suitability for the job of prime minister. As a first step to becoming prime minister, Mr. Brown announced his candidacy in the race for the Labor Party leadership, although it is doubtful that he will face serious opposition. Most Labor Party heavyweights who might have challenged Mr. Brown signaled their reluctance to do so in the weeks leading to Mr. Blair’s announcement on Thursday that he would step down on June 27. Two Labor left-wingers who said they would challenge Mr. Brown have failed to reach a deal on which of them should stand, apparently because of a lack of support among Labor lawmakers. Mr. Brown appeared before a crowd of cheering, youthful Labor Party supporters in central London to make his announcement today. “Today I announce that I’m a candidate to be leader of the Labor Party and to lead a new government,” he said. In a clear effort to distance himself from Mr. Blair, he promised greater government accountability, new procedures to allow parliament a voice in going to war and a greater stress on what he called “hearts and minds” alongside military efforts to combat terrorism and promote security. “Tony Blair has led our country for 10 years with distinction, with courage, with passion and with insight and in the weeks and months ahead my task is to show that I have the new ideas, the vision and the experience to earn the trust of the British people,” Mr. Brown said. “Today there are new priorities and I offer a new leadership for this new time.” Mr. Brown launched his campaign with a new slogan — “Gordon Brown for Britain” — and a personal manifesto that ranged from his views on society to his plans to visit British troops in Iraq. “Let me set out simply my core belief,” he said. “The Britain I believe in is a Britain of fairness and opportunity for all British citizens — every British citizen with every chance to make the most of themselves, every community fair to every citizen. If you work hard you are better off, if you save you are rewarded, if you play by the rules we will stand by you. “These are for me the best of British values: responsibilities required in return for rights, fairness not just for some but for all who earn it,” he said. “With the challenge of terrorism unlike anything that we have faced, the people of Britain want us strong in defense and security, succeeding not only militarily but also opening a new front, working with our allies to win the battle of hearts and minds at home and abroad,” he went on. He added: “Just as my first act as Chancellor of the Exchequer was to give away power to the Bank of England to restore trust in economic policy, so one of my first acts as Prime Minister would be to restore power to Parliament in order to build the trust of the British people in our democracy. Government must be more open and more accountable to Parliament — for example, in decisions about peace and war.” Mr. Brown continued: “In the next few weeks I will also visit our Armed Forces and the Middle East so we learn the lessons we have to learn from the last few years and we focus on the best ways to achieve lasting stability.” And he offered politics of conciliation without the star-dust that marked Mr. Blair’s early years. “I will form a government of all the talents, bringing people together, to listen, to learn and solve problems building on a broad sense of national purpose,” he said. “I do not believe politics is about celebrity,” he said. “When you put yourself forward for leadership, the country has a right to know where you come from, what you believe in and what you want to achieve. My father was a minister. For me, my parents were, and their inspiration still is, my moral compass. It’s a compass which has guided me through each stage of my life. They taught me the importance of integrity and decency, of treating people fairly and of duty to others.” “I want to lead a government humble enough to know its place, where I will always strive to be -- and that’s on people’s side,” he said. But Mr. Brown did not go into detail about foreign policy, particularly his view of the United States. Reluctant to be seen as a lame duck prime minister, Mr. Blair met at 10 Downing Street early today with Jalal Talabani, the Iraqi president, who praised him at a brief news conference as a “great leader” — a markedly different assessment from that of many British adversaries who criticize his decision to join the American invasion of Iraq in 2003. Mr. Blair also pledged to “still do everything I can” to work for an Israeli-Palestinian settlement. Then he planned to visit outgoing President in Paris, according to British media reports. But during the news conference, he broke away from pondering European and Middle East issues to answer a question from a reporter who wanted to know whether he would support Mr. Brown as his successor. “I am absolutely delighted to give my full support to Gordon as the next leader of the Labor Party and as Prime Minister and to endorse him fully,” Mr. Blair said. “He is an extraordinary and rare talent and it’s a tremendous thing if it’s put at the service of the nation as it now can be. He has shown, as perhaps the most successful Chancellor in our country’s history, that he’s got the strength and the experience and the judgment to make a great Prime Minister,” Mr. Blair said. “I know he’s absolutely determined to drive the modernization of the country forward in order to meet the challenges of the coming decade. I also believe that, as someone who has known him for over 20 years as a friend and a colleague, he can make a real difference to this country for the better and for the good,” he said. “I wish him well and, as I say, I’m delighted to support him and endorse him fully,” said Mr. Blair, choosing words Mr. Brown has reportedly been waiting to hear since the two men struck a leadership pact over dinner in 1994 — three years before Labor came to power. More Articles in International &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Scot With Baggage Readies for Leader&#8217;s Role Midterm Vote Could Give Blair A Last Hurrah, Or a Swift Kick World Briefing | Europe: Britain: Blair Gives A Nod To Gordon Brown Police Query Blair as Witness In Graft Allegation Scandal More Articles in International &#x00bb; A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Skyline & Clouds - 2003 Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/us/11cnd-blaze.html	Wildfire Threatens a California Resort Island - New York Times Wildfire Threatens a California Resort Island Smoke rose over Avalon on Thursday. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 Firefighters struggled early today to prevent a wildfire from reaching homes on the edge of Santa Catalina Island’s main town, as residents and visitors fled the resort island off the Southern California coast. Skip to next paragraph The New York Times A wildfire approached Santa Catalina Island&#146;s main city, Avalon, on Thursday. People wait to be evacuated from the town of Avalon, Calif., as smoke from a wildfire rises in the background on Santa Catalina Island. At least 160 firefighters, aided by four water-dropping helicopters and three retardant-dropping air tankers, battled flames through most of Thursday. The helicopters flew into the night and were back in the air at dawn today. Dozens of fire engines from as far away as Fresno arrived through the night aboard giant military hovercraft from the Marine Corps base at Camp Pendleton. The high-speed hovercraft can carry 60 tons of cargo over land or water, and are often used by the military on humanitarian missions. The blaze broke out Thursday afternoon on the island, which is more than 20 miles off the coast. Flames threatened the city limits of Avalon, where hundreds of people lined up at the harbor Thursday night to board ferries back to the mainland. Many covered their faces with towels and bandanas as ashes fell around them. A few homes on the island were burned, but firefighters worked to protect other properties late into the night, said Steven Hoefs, the chief of the Avalon fire department. Some 1,200 homes were under voluntary or mandatory evacuation orders. “We’re hanging in for now,” Chief Hoefs said. The blaze, which began five miles east of the island’s airport, grew to cover 4,000 acres, feeding on dry brush and scrub as winds steadily blew throughout the day and into the night on Thursday. Winds later calmed and the air grew more humid, although the threat of fire remained. An orange inferno loomed behind the quaint crescent-shaped harbor, the landmark 1929 Catalina Casino, and the homes, restaurants and tiny hotels clinging to slopes above the Avalon waterfront. A commercial building and several warehouses burned, and 175 utility customers lost electricity when power poles caught on fire. Overnight, Blackhawk and Chinook helicopters were ferrying in firefighters, 32 at a time. Crews were being positioned at the city’s edge to protect homes. “We’re on defense mode for now,” Chief Hoefs said. In Avalon, authorities used a bullhorn to urge people to evacuate the city and head to the beach. Visitors to the island were directed to the historic Art Deco-style Casino building until it lost power, while residents were sent to another site along the harbor. The Catalina Express ferry service added several night departures of 400-passenger vessels from Avalon. Hundreds of residents and visitors boarded the ferries to reach the mainland. A family of eight said they had just enough time to pack some clothes and personal papers before fleeing. “I’m scared,” said Angelica Romero, 30, holding her 7-month-old daughter. “But what’s important is I have my children. The rest doesn’t matter.” At the mainland port of Long Beach, Kathy Troeger, a Santa Catalina resident, arrived by ferry with her three children and a friend’s daughter. Her husband, a fire captain, stayed behind to help fight the blaze. “It was like a nightmare when we left,” she said. “You couldn’t breathe, and ash was falling like snow.” An evacuation center was set up at Cabrillo High School, where about 85 people had checked in, according to the Red Cross. Santa Catalina has been left parched by the same lack of rainfall that has made the Southern California mainland particularly susceptible to wildfires, like the one in Griffith Park in Los Angeles earlier this week. Firefighters were still working there today to surround what remained of the fire, which briefly chased people from adjacent homes and threatened the park’s landmark observatory and its zoo. Los Angeles officials had expected the Griffith Park fire to be fully contained by Thursday, two days after it peaked, and no visible flames remained, but fire crews were still building containment lines around the fire’s perimeter late into the night. Only 2 inches of rain have fallen on Santa Catalina since January. The island is long and fairly narrow, covering a total of 76 square miles of land area, most of it owned and kept as a preserve by the Santa Catalina Island Conservancy. various wildlife. The populated areas are served by helicopters and ferry boats from Los Angeles, Long Beach and other mainland harbors. Avalon, the main town, has a year-round population of 3,200, but swells to more than 10,000 on weekends and in the summer, according to the Catalina Island Chamber of Commerce and Visitors Bureau. The Associated Press contributed to this report. More Articles in National &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. More Articles in National &#x00bb; A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Snowy Owl, Plate 121 Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/world/europe/11cnd-blair.html?ex=1336536000&en=8c55788d4c7f0f12&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Blair Endorses Gordon Brown as His Successor - New York Times Blair Endorses Gordon Brown as His Successor Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 LONDON, May 11 — A day after announcing that he would step down in June, Prime Minister offered a fulsome if long-delayed endorsement today of as his successor, calling him “an extraordinary and rare talent.” Skip to next paragraph Gordon Brown with his wife, Sarah, and his campaign manager, Jack Straw, left, launching his campaign for leadership of Britain's Labor Party today in London. Blair Choreographs End to a Stewardship Dogged by Iraq Then, Mr. Blair set off on what seemed a first stage of a lengthy and closely-scripted goodbye tour, even as Mr. Brown, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, planned an equally busy campaign to persuade Britons of his suitability for the job of prime minister. As a first step to becoming prime minister, Mr. Brown announced his candidacy in the race for the Labor Party leadership, although it is doubtful that he will face serious opposition. Most Labor Party heavyweights who might have challenged Mr. Brown signaled their reluctance to do so in the weeks leading to Mr. Blair’s announcement on Thursday that he would step down on June 27. Two Labor left-wingers who said they would challenge Mr. Brown have failed to reach a deal on which of them should stand, apparently because of a lack of support among Labor lawmakers. Mr. Brown appeared before a crowd of cheering, youthful Labor Party supporters in central London to make his announcement today. “Today I announce that I’m a candidate to be leader of the Labor Party and to lead a new government,” he said. In a clear effort to distance himself from Mr. Blair, he promised greater government accountability, new procedures to allow parliament a voice in going to war and a greater stress on what he called “hearts and minds” alongside military efforts to combat terrorism and promote security. “Tony Blair has led our country for 10 years with distinction, with courage, with passion and with insight and in the weeks and months ahead my task is to show that I have the new ideas, the vision and the experience to earn the trust of the British people,” Mr. Brown said. “Today there are new priorities and I offer a new leadership for this new time.” Mr. Brown launched his campaign with a new slogan — “Gordon Brown for Britain” — and a personal manifesto that ranged from his views on society to his plans to visit British troops in Iraq. “Let me set out simply my core belief,” he said. “The Britain I believe in is a Britain of fairness and opportunity for all British citizens — every British citizen with every chance to make the most of themselves, every community fair to every citizen. If you work hard you are better off, if you save you are rewarded, if you play by the rules we will stand by you. “These are for me the best of British values: responsibilities required in return for rights, fairness not just for some but for all who earn it,” he said. “With the challenge of terrorism unlike anything that we have faced, the people of Britain want us strong in defense and security, succeeding not only militarily but also opening a new front, working with our allies to win the battle of hearts and minds at home and abroad,” he went on. He added: “Just as my first act as Chancellor of the Exchequer was to give away power to the Bank of England to restore trust in economic policy, so one of my first acts as Prime Minister would be to restore power to Parliament in order to build the trust of the British people in our democracy. Government must be more open and more accountable to Parliament — for example, in decisions about peace and war.” Mr. Brown continued: “In the next few weeks I will also visit our Armed Forces and the Middle East so we learn the lessons we have to learn from the last few years and we focus on the best ways to achieve lasting stability.” And he offered politics of conciliation without the star-dust that marked Mr. Blair’s early years. “I will form a government of all the talents, bringing people together, to listen, to learn and solve problems building on a broad sense of national purpose,” he said. “I do not believe politics is about celebrity,” he said. “When you put yourself forward for leadership, the country has a right to know where you come from, what you believe in and what you want to achieve. My father was a minister. For me, my parents were, and their inspiration still is, my moral compass. It’s a compass which has guided me through each stage of my life. They taught me the importance of integrity and decency, of treating people fairly and of duty to others.” “I want to lead a government humble enough to know its place, where I will always strive to be -- and that’s on people’s side,” he said. But Mr. Brown did not go into detail about foreign policy, particularly his view of the United States. Reluctant to be seen as a lame duck prime minister, Mr. Blair met at 10 Downing Street early today with Jalal Talabani, the Iraqi president, who praised him at a brief news conference as a “great leader” — a markedly different assessment from that of many British adversaries who criticize his decision to join the American invasion of Iraq in 2003. Mr. Blair also pledged to “still do everything I can” to work for an Israeli-Palestinian settlement. Then he planned to visit outgoing President in Paris, according to British media reports. But during the news conference, he broke away from pondering European and Middle East issues to answer a question from a reporter who wanted to know whether he would support Mr. Brown as his successor. “I am absolutely delighted to give my full support to Gordon as the next leader of the Labor Party and as Prime Minister and to endorse him fully,” Mr. Blair said. “He is an extraordinary and rare talent and it’s a tremendous thing if it’s put at the service of the nation as it now can be. He has shown, as perhaps the most successful Chancellor in our country’s history, that he’s got the strength and the experience and the judgment to make a great Prime Minister,” Mr. Blair said. “I know he’s absolutely determined to drive the modernization of the country forward in order to meet the challenges of the coming decade. I also believe that, as someone who has known him for over 20 years as a friend and a colleague, he can make a real difference to this country for the better and for the good,” he said. “I wish him well and, as I say, I’m delighted to support him and endorse him fully,” said Mr. Blair, choosing words Mr. Brown has reportedly been waiting to hear since the two men struck a leadership pact over dinner in 1994 — three years before Labor came to power. More Articles in International &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Scot With Baggage Readies for Leader&#8217;s Role Midterm Vote Could Give Blair A Last Hurrah, Or a Swift Kick World Briefing | Europe: Britain: Blair Gives A Nod To Gordon Brown Police Query Blair as Witness In Graft Allegation Scandal More Articles in International &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/nyregion/11cnd-dix.html	6 Charged in Fort Dix Plot Held Without Bail - New York Times 6 Charged in Fort Dix Plot Held Without Bail Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 CAMDEN, N.J., May 11 — Six Muslim men from New Jersey and Philadelphia charged with plotting to attack Fort Dix with automatic weapons were ordered held without bail today by a federal magistrate here. The men were arrested on Monday night after a 15-month investigation in which the and two informers who had infiltrated the group taped them training with automatic weapons in rural Pennsylvania, conducting surveillance of military bases in the Northeast, watching videos of and the 9/11 hijackers and trying to buy AK-47 assault rifles. The authorities have described the suspects as Islamic extremists and have said they represent the newest breed of threat: loosely organized domestic militants unconnected to — but inspired by — or other international terror groups. Prosecutors argued today that the men, all of whom were born outside the United States, should be denied bail because they posed a flight risk. Only one of the men, Mohamad Shnewer, requested bail, with his family offering to put up four properties worth $580,000 and requesting that he be placed under house arrest with an electronic monitoring bracelet. An assistant United States attorney, Stephen R. Stigall, argued that house arrest offered no protection to the public because Mr. Shnewer “was living in that same house” as the plan to attack Fort Dix was being put together. United States Magistate Joel Schneider ordered that Mr. Shnewer, along with the five others, be held without bail. They have been held in a detention center in Philadelphia since their arrest. Five of the men — Mohamad Shnewer, 22; Serdar Tatar, 23; Dritan Duka, 28; Shain Duka, 26; and Eljvir Duka, 23 — are charged with conspiring to kill uniformed military personnel, an offense punishable by life in prison. The sixth man, Agron Abdullahu, 24, is charged with helping illegal immigrants obtain weapons, an offense punishable by up to 10 years in prison. He will have a more detailed bail hearing later this week. After the hearing, Michael Huff, the attorney for Dritan Duka, said that defending terror suspects is challenging, “This is post-9/11,” he said, according to The Associated Press. “This is one of the No. 1 things on the public’s mind.” Troy Archie, the lawyer for the defendant Eljvir Duka, complained about the conditions under which his client is being held. Mr. Archie said that Mr. Duka “is basically just sitting in a cell in solitary” and that he had not been allowed to talk to his family. Mr. Archie also said that Mr. Duka’s request for a Koran had been ignored. The defense lawyer also raised questions about the confidential informer who prosecutors said was central to the case. “I just don’t understand how someone could infiltrate an alleged terrorist organization, and my emphasis is on allege , within 30 days of meeting them,” Mr. Archie said. He also questioned the informer’s background, which he said included a criminal record. “Everyone in the community knew him,” Mr. Archie said, “and he was bad news.” More Articles in New York Region &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. More Articles in New York Region &#x00bb; A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Wright Brothers' Historic First Flight - 1903 Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/business/11trade.html?ex=1336536000&en=4aa3d2f914ea9e7b&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Bush and Democrats in Accord on Trade Deals - New York Times Bush and Democrats in Accord on Trade Deals Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 WASHINGTON, May 10 — The Bush administration reached agreement on Thursday with the House speaker, , and other Democrats to attach environmental and worker protections in several pending trade accords, clearing the way for early passage of some pacts and improving prospects for others. Skip to next paragraph Doug Mills/The New York Times Representative Charles B. Rangel, above, the New York Democrat who is chairman of the Ways and Means Committee, has led negotiations to complete the trade deals along with Susan C. Schwab, the United States trade representative. Trade Deficit Hits a Six-Month High The New York Times The unusual agreement, which came after weeks of negotiations, would guarantee workers the right to organize, ban child labor and prohibit forced labor in trading-partner countries. It would also require trading partners to enforce environmental laws already on their books and comply with several international environmental agreements. While the understanding was a victory for Democrats, it also represented a shrewd compromise by the White House. The agreement is the first major bipartisan economic deal to emerge since Democrats took control of Congress in January. It has immediate importance for four countries — — that are seeking to enter into trade pacts with the United States. But officials in Washington predicted that the agreement’s effect would go beyond those countries and could be a template for all trade deals, including a possible worldwide accord. Administration officials are hoping that the agreement will cause many Democrats to support future trade deals. They hope that enough Democrats will join with , who generally support such measures, to make passage of the agreements probable, if only narrowly. The negotiations were led on the administration side by Susan C. Schwab, the top trade envoy, and Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. , and on the House side by Representative , Democrat of New York and chairman of the Ways and Means Committee. “I think today is a recognition of the results of the November election,” Ms. Pelosi said at a news conference. “It doesn’t mean that this paves the way for trade agreements where we have other obstacles. But where it comes down to labor standards and environment, this is enormous progress.” Ms. Schwab said that the agreement would send a message to trading partners that the United States was prepared to provide new impetus to the faltering talks for a global trade accord. Democrats have been pressing for worker, environmental and other protections on trade deals without success since President Bush took office in 2001. The absence of such protections has meant that when lawmakers passed measures that lowered trade barriers, they generally did so without the support of Democrats. In the 1990s, President was able to get only 40 percent of his fellow Democrats to endorse the North American Free Trade Agreement, and about 60 percent to support a global trade agreement. Since then, many Democrats have soured on measures to lower trade barriers. The breakthrough came as the politically sensitive trade deficit jumped in March to $63.9 billion, or 10 percent more than February’s revised deficit of $57.9 billion, putting the imbalance at its highest level in six months. The report, issued by the , followed a trend that economists have observed for months: even as growth slows in the United States, expanding economies abroad are creating a need for American exports. In March, exports totaled $126.2 billion, up $2.2 billion from February. Those gains were not enough to offset an $8.2 billion rise in imports, which totaled $190.1 billion. Thursday’s compromise affects four trade deals pending before Congress, two of them signed and two with negotiations that are nearly complete. All four countries would have to accept the provisions agreed to with the Democrats, but trade officials said they expected no major problems. Peru and Panama are considered most likely to win early Congressional approval. Colombia is more problematic, because Democrats are demanding that, besides the new measures, more protections be added to prevent violence against activists trying to organize workers. The South Korea accord, if put in place, would lead to the largest amount of increased trade. But it is opposed in its current version by Democrats who want greater access to that country’s markets for American beef, automobiles and auto parts. National Association of Manufacturers and other business groups hailed the understanding, but said they wanted to study its provisions before endorsing its details. Democrats have been most wary of two administration trade priorities: concluding the global negotiations known as the Doha round, named after the city in Qatar where the talks began six years ago; and extending Mr. Bush’s power to negotiate trade deals on which Congress gets only an up-or-down vote. This negotiating authority, known in Washington shorthand as fast track, has been vigorously opposed by Democrats, who say that they cannot imagine giving Mr. Bush open-ended negotiating authority. But Mr. Rangel said he could imagine a limited extension of such negotiating authority if the Doha round talks looked as if they were shaping up to be a good deal for the United States. Next Article in Business (1 of 32) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. For Democrats, New Challenge in Age-Old Rift Food Imports Often Escape Scrutiny Progress Is Seen on Trade Legislation Labor Rights Issues Are Stalling Trade Pacts International Trade and World Market United States Politics and Government Next Article in Business (1 of 32) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/index.html	The New York Times - Breaking News, World News & Multimedia Friday, May 11, 2007 NYT Archive Since 1981 On Carrier in Gulf, Cheney Warns Iran By DAVID E. SANGER The vice president warned that the U.S. was prepared to use its naval power to keep Tehran from disrupting oil shipments or gaining nuclear weapons. Back Story With The Times's David Sanger ( U.S. Backs Off Plan to Tighten Limits on Guantánamo Lawyers Justice Department lawyers said they were no longer asking an appeals court in Washington to limit the lawyers to a total of three visits with detainees. Today's column looks at the art of political damage control. The Caucus Blog » Romney Elaborates on Evolution Mitt Romney's position could put him at odds with some conservative Christians. Times Topics: Mitt Romney Michael Stravato for The New York Times Giuliani Defends Stance on Abortion By MARC SANTORA and MARIA NEWMAN Rudolph W. Giuliani said that he favors abortion rights, certain restrictions on gun ownership and gay rights. More From The Caucus Mixed Mood on Campus at Va. Tech Graduation Today, as parents arrived for graduation ceremonies, it was hard to tell the tears of joy from those of sadness. Blair Endorses Gordon Brown as His Successor Pope Canonizes Brazil’s First Native-Born Saint Wildfire Threatens a California Resort Island Bats: A Cabrera by Any Other Name The Caucus: Romney Elaborates on Evolution The Lede: The Day the Union Jack Got Beat Back The Lede: A Prominent Iraqi Blogger Flees Puffing Away That PG Rating Do you think movies that contain smoking deserve a more restrictive rating? Armless, One - Legged Driver Leads Chase Va. Tech Graduations Honor Slain Victims Mysterious Object Probably Space Junk Thomson Selling Assets to Private Group "28 Weeks Later" is smart, both in its ideas and techniques, writes A. O. Scott. Don’t Mess With Grandma “Georgia Rule” takes its plot in surprising directions, writes A. O. Scott. Chasing an Old Flame The best jokes in “The Ex” leave scratches, writes Stephen Holden. Brooks: Blair and Iraq Editorial: Reality in Iraq What You Get for ...$1.6 Million Homes on the market in Keswick, Va., Scottsdale, Ariz., and San Luis Obispo, Calif. Slide Show: $1.6 Million Homes More in Real Estate Mortgage News and Rates America's Best Private Club Membership Place a Classified Ad » Certified? Yes. Satisfied? Not Always. Some car buyers find that certification doesn’t protect them. Submit photos and comment on other readers' cars. Also, keep track of events Go to Photo Gallery Place a Classified Ad » Post a job online More in Job Market Browse jobs by industry Browse jobs by location What to Do About Wanderlust Yes, there are sensible ways to look into a new career while keeping your old one. Place a Classified Ad » Find a Classifieds listing Home & Garden Directory Small Inns & Lodges Post a classifieds ad online "The Watch Hill Inn is the only original hotel existing Historic Watch Hill, a peninsula of..."...... Place a Classified Ad » SAVE 50% ON HOME DELIVERY Have The New York Times waiting for you, as little as $3.15 a week. Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense Be Prepared. Fight ID Theft. Equifax Credit Watch™. Equifax.com Earn 5.05% APY - Open a Complete Savings Acct from E*TRADE Bank Photos, fine art, books and more. Pressed by Police, Even Innocent Confess in Japan President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Marine Says His Staff Misled Him on Killings Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard 6 Charged in Fort Dix Plot Held Without Bail New Mayor but Familiar Issues on Dallas’s Horizon Bush and Democrats in Accord on Labor Rights in Trade Deals Romney Works to Put Skeptics’ Doubts to Rest President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Awaiting Rock-Eating Beast, L.I.R.R. Tunnel Is Poised to Finish Trip to Grand Central National Guard to Patrol PATH Stations A Slow, Steady Approach to Governing in Corzine’s First Week Back Purdue Will Reinvestigate Its Professor Who Claimed Desktop Fusion State Closes Coal-Fired Plant That Failed to Limit Emissions A Nuclear Reactor Reborn Electric Pulses, Instead of Shocks, Can Help Heart Patients Passage of Drug Safety Bill Was Common Goal for Two Very Different Senators F.D.A. Panel Seeks Limits on Cancer Patient Drugs Spellings Rejects Criticism on Student Loan Scandal Purdue Will Reinvestigate Its Professor Who Claimed Desktop Fusion House Passes Ban on Gifts From Student Lenders Away: Restoring an Old House and Putting Down Deeper Roots A Ski Community Where There’s No Such Thing as Too Much Havens | St. Petersburg Fla.: A Neighborhood of Colonials and Palm Trees Bush and Democrats in Accord on Trade Deals Thomson to Sell Educational Group Prices Are Stable Except for Gasoline Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds At Vonage, Sales Increase as Litigation Clouds Future Out of Chaos, Order. Or So Google Says. Feliciano Uses Guile to Aid the Mets Brewers Off to a Fast Start Nadal Matches McEnroe's Surface Streak In the Big House ... Just Visiting 36 Hours in St. Petersburg, Russia Weekend With the Kids: In Monterey, Where Sea Lions and Children Are at Play Dining & Wine &#x00bb; The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Op-Ed Contributor: Less Green at the Farmers’ Market Critic’s Notebook: In Los Angeles, the Accidental Pizza Maker Home & Garden &#x00bb; Aspiring to the Throne At Home With Charlie White: Order and Chaos in a Single Heartbeat In the Garden: It Takes a Hammer to Grow This Salad Fashion & Style &#x00bb; Faster Fashion, Cheaper Chic It’s Her World, We’re Just Buying It The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Earnhardt Drops Team Built by His Father to Become a Free Agent Shareholders Give Ex-Chief the Blame for Ford Woes Editorial: Mr. Bush Alone Op-Ed Contributor: Give the Arab Peace Initiative a Chance To Raise a Down Syndrome Child (6 Letters) Music: Off the Beaten Beat Harlem’s Cultural Anchor in a Sea of Ideas Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Film: A Loving Look at a Cinematic Tough Guy: Gangster, Hit Man, Gunslinger Movie Review | 'Georgia Rule': Hey, California Girl, Don’t Mess With Grandma Theater Review | 'Memory': From Wales, Tales of Berlin Then and Bethlehem Now Theater Review | 'Couples': Blissful and Benighted: Dispatches From the War of the Sexes 'Animal, Vegetable, Miracle,' by Barbara Kingsolver: Because It’s Good for You, That’s Why 'Troublesome Young Men,' by Lynne Olson: In Churchill’s Rise to Power, a Rough Path of Rebellion Three Writers of Nonfiction Are Honored Week in Review &#x00bb; Nervous Energy: The (Not So) Eagerly Modern Saudi The In Crowd: Playing ‘Survivor’ in Washington Ideas & Trends: Rupert Murdoch, Once the Outsider The New Middle Ages: The Older-and-Wiser Hypothesis The New Middle Ages: A Longer, Better Life The New Middle Ages: Self-Nonmedication The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer About the NYT Co. Jobs at the NYT Co. Add New York Times headlines to your site Add New York Times RSS Feeds Get home delivery of The New York Times, as little as $3.15 a week. The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/us/11cnd-blaze.html?ex=1336536000&en=616db4de7e44ee94&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Wildfire Threatens a California Resort Island - New York Times Wildfire Threatens a California Resort Island Smoke rose over Avalon on Thursday. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 Firefighters struggled early today to prevent a wildfire from reaching homes on the edge of Santa Catalina Island’s main town, as residents and visitors fled the resort island off the Southern California coast. Skip to next paragraph The New York Times A wildfire approached Santa Catalina Island&#146;s main city, Avalon, on Thursday. People wait to be evacuated from the town of Avalon, Calif., as smoke from a wildfire rises in the background on Santa Catalina Island. At least 160 firefighters, aided by four water-dropping helicopters and three retardant-dropping air tankers, battled flames through most of Thursday. The helicopters flew into the night and were back in the air at dawn today. Dozens of fire engines from as far away as Fresno arrived through the night aboard giant military hovercraft from the Marine Corps base at Camp Pendleton. The high-speed hovercraft can carry 60 tons of cargo over land or water, and are often used by the military on humanitarian missions. The blaze broke out Thursday afternoon on the island, which is more than 20 miles off the coast. Flames threatened the city limits of Avalon, where hundreds of people lined up at the harbor Thursday night to board ferries back to the mainland. Many covered their faces with towels and bandanas as ashes fell around them. A few homes on the island were burned, but firefighters worked to protect other properties late into the night, said Steven Hoefs, the chief of the Avalon fire department. Some 1,200 homes were under voluntary or mandatory evacuation orders. “We’re hanging in for now,” Chief Hoefs said. The blaze, which began five miles east of the island’s airport, grew to cover 4,000 acres, feeding on dry brush and scrub as winds steadily blew throughout the day and into the night on Thursday. Winds later calmed and the air grew more humid, although the threat of fire remained. An orange inferno loomed behind the quaint crescent-shaped harbor, the landmark 1929 Catalina Casino, and the homes, restaurants and tiny hotels clinging to slopes above the Avalon waterfront. A commercial building and several warehouses burned, and 175 utility customers lost electricity when power poles caught on fire. Overnight, Blackhawk and Chinook helicopters were ferrying in firefighters, 32 at a time. Crews were being positioned at the city’s edge to protect homes. “We’re on defense mode for now,” Chief Hoefs said. In Avalon, authorities used a bullhorn to urge people to evacuate the city and head to the beach. Visitors to the island were directed to the historic Art Deco-style Casino building until it lost power, while residents were sent to another site along the harbor. The Catalina Express ferry service added several night departures of 400-passenger vessels from Avalon. Hundreds of residents and visitors boarded the ferries to reach the mainland. A family of eight said they had just enough time to pack some clothes and personal papers before fleeing. “I’m scared,” said Angelica Romero, 30, holding her 7-month-old daughter. “But what’s important is I have my children. The rest doesn’t matter.” At the mainland port of Long Beach, Kathy Troeger, a Santa Catalina resident, arrived by ferry with her three children and a friend’s daughter. Her husband, a fire captain, stayed behind to help fight the blaze. “It was like a nightmare when we left,” she said. “You couldn’t breathe, and ash was falling like snow.” An evacuation center was set up at Cabrillo High School, where about 85 people had checked in, according to the Red Cross. Santa Catalina has been left parched by the same lack of rainfall that has made the Southern California mainland particularly susceptible to wildfires, like the one in Griffith Park in Los Angeles earlier this week. Firefighters were still working there today to surround what remained of the fire, which briefly chased people from adjacent homes and threatened the park’s landmark observatory and its zoo. Los Angeles officials had expected the Griffith Park fire to be fully contained by Thursday, two days after it peaked, and no visible flames remained, but fire crews were still building containment lines around the fire’s perimeter late into the night. Only 2 inches of rain have fallen on Santa Catalina since January. The island is long and fairly narrow, covering a total of 76 square miles of land area, most of it owned and kept as a preserve by the Santa Catalina Island Conservancy. various wildlife. The populated areas are served by helicopters and ferry boats from Los Angeles, Long Beach and other mainland harbors. Avalon, the main town, has a year-round population of 3,200, but swells to more than 10,000 on weekends and in the summer, according to the Catalina Island Chamber of Commerce and Visitors Bureau. The Associated Press contributed to this report. More Articles in National &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. More Articles in National &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/washington/11cong.html	President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure - New York Times President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Stephen Crowley/The New York Times President Bush, who visited the Pentagon, said he would agree to setting firm goals for the Iraqi government in the spending bill that is being debated in Congress. Though he had agreed to benchmarks before, Mr. Bush was unwilling to link them to financing or troop withdrawal. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 WASHINGTON, May 10 — Hours before the House approved a plan on Thursday to finance the war only through midsummer, President Bush offered his first public concession to try to resolve the impasse on war spending, acknowledging rising pressure from his own party and the public. After a briefing at the Pentagon, Mr. Bush said he had instructed , the White House chief of staff, to reach “common ground” with lawmakers of both parties over setting firm goals, or benchmarks, to measure progress in Iraq. Mr. Bush had previously insisted that he wanted about $95 billion for the military with no strings attached. “It makes sense to have benchmarks as a part of our discussion on how to go forward,” Mr. Bush said, even as he threatened to veto the House plan, approved on a 221-to-205 vote Thursday night, which would require him to seek approval in two months for the balance of the war money. Still, Congressional leaders say the plan may never reach his desk, because the Senate is likely to take a different approach. Before the vote on Thursday, House Democrats demonstrated their opposition to continuing the war when 169 of them voted for a separate plan that would have required the withdrawal of American troops to begin in 90 days, with most forces out within another six months. joined in that effort, which failed by a 255-to-171 vote. Still, the plan attracted more support than anticipated. Speaker was among those voting in favor of it. Fifty-nine Democrats, including Representative of Maryland, the majority leader, opposed the proposal along with 196 Republicans. “We finally got to vote for what we believed in,” said Representative Jim McGovern, Democrat of Massachusetts and a sponsor of the withdrawal plan. The bill approved by the House would provide $42.8 billion total, with about $30 billion directed to the war effort for the next two months. It requires the president to report by July 13 on how the Iraqi government is performing in building its military and moving toward achieving political unity. Congress would then vote a second time on whether to give the administration the remainder of the money — about $50 billion — to maintain operations in Iraq through Sept. 30 or to restrict that money to deployment. “No more,” said Mr. Hoyer, who backed the plan. “No more blank checks.” Republicans derided the Democratic approach as war on the installment plan, and they and Mr. Bush said the two-stage financing was unworkable. Once the Senate is through with its negotiations, lawmakers say, a final measure may be ready for the White House by the end of the month. Mr. Bush, who on Tuesday received a blunt assessment from Republican moderates about rising voter unrest over Iraq, acknowledged the public’s impatience with the war. But he said he could not allow political considerations like “the latest opinion poll, or how we can get our members elected” to drive his thinking. “My message to the members of Congress is, whatever your beliefs may be, let’s make sure our troops get funded, and let’s make sure politicians don’t tell our commanders how to conduct operations,” Mr. Bush said. Though Republicans voted solidly with the president, many made it clear that the administration had until September — the deadline for a progress report from Gen. , the commander in Iraq — to prove its war strategy was working. While it was Republican moderates who took their complaints directly to the president this week, others in the party expressed similar misgivings on Thursday. “There is a significant undercurrent that is looking for a reasonable way forward in Iraq,” said Representative Jeff Fortenberry, a conservative Republican of Nebraska, adding that the war is a leading concern for his constituents. “People are very conflicted in their hearts.” Several Republicans are considering bipartisan legislation aimed at changing the war’s course. Senators Olympia Snowe of Maine and of Tennessee have introduced separate proposals aimed at bringing a gradual end to the war. “We are troubled by the current policy,” Ms. Snowe said Thursday. “The White House needs to hear it.” While the White House has not opposed setting general goals for progress in Iraq, they have resisted any effort to tie financing or troop withdrawal plans to the benchmarks. On Thursday, Democrats welcomed the president’s new willingness to authorize negotiations on benchmarks but said any failure by Iraq to meet specified goals must result in penalties or they would be meaningless. “There is a recognition that things are not going well,” said Senator , Democrat of Nevada and the majority leader. “The only person who doesn’t believe there needs to be a change is the president.” The Senate hopes to consider its version of the war spending measure sometime next week, and Democrats have not made public many of their ideas. Lawmakers and senior administration officials say the most likely course is that the Senate would approve a new measure dropping the withdrawal date Mr. Bush objected to in vetoing the initial legislation but retaining other restrictions, while providing the president the ability to waive them. The White House has not been receptive in the past to proposals for such waivers. Speaking on condition of anonymity, a senior White House official disputed the notion that Mr. Bush’s agreement to consider signing a bill with specific benchmarks for the Iraqis to meet was tied to Republican complaints that more pressure be brought to bear on the Iraqi government to make faster progress toward political reconciliation. “We’ve said all along there’s going to be a compromise,” he said. The official said the president understood that if General Petraeus delivered a bad assessment of conditions in Iraq in September, it would make it hard for some Republicans to continue supporting the war. For all of the administration’s complaints about the Democratic approach, officials concede that the lawmakers’ efforts to impose a timetable for American withdrawal may at least have helped emphasize the president’s point to the Prime Minister that American patience is wearing thin and Iraq needs to act more urgently toward political reconciliation. Some White House officials privately expressed displeasure Thursday that the concerns the Republican moderates raised with the president became public. Vice President did not mince words in an interview with the Fox News Channel. “We didn’t get elected to be popular,” Mr. Cheney said. “We didn’t get elected to worry just about the fate of the Republican Party.” Some lawmakers said they had lost patience not only with the war in Iraq, but also with the continuing legislative and political conflict in Congress as the two parties maneuver over the war. “The Republicans should not be saying the Democrats don’t support the troops, nor should the Democrats be calling Republicans warmongers,” said Representative Jo Ann Emerson, Republican of Missouri and one of the 11 moderates who met with Mr. Bush on Tuesday. “Politics have taken over, and our soldiers deserve better.” Jeff Zeleny contributed reporting. More Articles in Washington &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Times Names Ex-Executive of Knight Ridder as Public Editor THE REACH OF WAR; Clinton Proposes Vote to Reverse Authorizing War THE REACH OF WAR; Inspector of Projects in Iraq Is Now Under Investigation More Articles in Washington &#x00bb; A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/nyregion/11cnd-dix.html?ex=1336536000&en=b0039749a0948239&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	6 Charged in Fort Dix Plot Held Without Bail - New York Times 6 Charged in Fort Dix Plot Held Without Bail Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 CAMDEN, N.J., May 11 — Six Muslim men from New Jersey and Philadelphia charged with plotting to attack Fort Dix with automatic weapons were ordered held without bail today by a federal magistrate here. The men were arrested on Monday night after a 15-month investigation in which the and two informers who had infiltrated the group taped them training with automatic weapons in rural Pennsylvania, conducting surveillance of military bases in the Northeast, watching videos of and the 9/11 hijackers and trying to buy AK-47 assault rifles. The authorities have described the suspects as Islamic extremists and have said they represent the newest breed of threat: loosely organized domestic militants unconnected to — but inspired by — or other international terror groups. Prosecutors argued today that the men, all of whom were born outside the United States, should be denied bail because they posed a flight risk. Only one of the men, Mohamad Shnewer, requested bail, with his family offering to put up four properties worth $580,000 and requesting that he be placed under house arrest with an electronic monitoring bracelet. An assistant United States attorney, Stephen R. Stigall, argued that house arrest offered no protection to the public because Mr. Shnewer “was living in that same house” as the plan to attack Fort Dix was being put together. United States Magistate Joel Schneider ordered that Mr. Shnewer, along with the five others, be held without bail. They have been held in a detention center in Philadelphia since their arrest. Five of the men — Mohamad Shnewer, 22; Serdar Tatar, 23; Dritan Duka, 28; Shain Duka, 26; and Eljvir Duka, 23 — are charged with conspiring to kill uniformed military personnel, an offense punishable by life in prison. The sixth man, Agron Abdullahu, 24, is charged with helping illegal immigrants obtain weapons, an offense punishable by up to 10 years in prison. He will have a more detailed bail hearing later this week. After the hearing, Michael Huff, the attorney for Dritan Duka, said that defending terror suspects is challenging, “This is post-9/11,” he said, according to The Associated Press. “This is one of the No. 1 things on the public’s mind.” Troy Archie, the lawyer for the defendant Eljvir Duka, complained about the conditions under which his client is being held. Mr. Archie said that Mr. Duka “is basically just sitting in a cell in solitary” and that he had not been allowed to talk to his family. Mr. Archie also said that Mr. Duka’s request for a Koran had been ignored. The defense lawyer also raised questions about the confidential informer who prosecutors said was central to the case. “I just don’t understand how someone could infiltrate an alleged terrorist organization, and my emphasis is on allege , within 30 days of meeting them,” Mr. Archie said. He also questioned the informer’s background, which he said included a criminal record. “Everyone in the community knew him,” Mr. Archie said, “and he was bad news.” More Articles in New York Region &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. More Articles in New York Region &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/world/middleeast/11cnd-cheney.html?ex=1336536000&en=e5527828a00da7bb&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	On Carrier in Gulf, Cheney Warns Iran - New York Times On Carrier in Gulf, Cheney Warns Iran Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 BRUSSELS, May 11 — Vice President used the deck of an American aircraft carrier just 150 miles off ’s coast as the backdrop today to warn the country that the United States was prepared to use its naval power to keep Tehran from disrupting off oil routes or “gaining nuclear weapons and dominating this region.” Skip to next paragraph Vice President Dick Cheney on board the USS John C. Stennis aircraft carrier in the Persian Gulf today. Back Story With The Times's David Sanger ( Little of what Mr. Cheney said in the cavernous hangar bay of the aircraft carrier U.S.S. John C. Stennis, one of two carriers whose strike groups are now in the Persian Gulf, was new. Each individual line had, in some form, been said before, at various points in the four-year-long nuclear standoff with Iran, and during the increasingly tense arguments over whether Iran is aiding the insurgents in Iraq. But Mr. Cheney stitched all of those warnings together, and the symbolism of sending the administration’s most famous hawk to deliver the speech so close to Iran’s coast was unmistakable. It also came just a week after Secretary of State talked briefly and inconclusively with Iran’s foreign minister, a step toward re-engagement with Iran that some in the administration have opposed. Mr. Cheney’s sharp warnings appeared to be part of a two-track administration campaign to push back at Iran, while leaving the door open to negotiations. It was almost exactly a year ago that the United States offered to negotiate with Iran as long as it first agreed to halt enriching uranium, a decision in which Mr. Cheney, participants said, was not a major player. Similarly, the speech today was not circulated broadly in the government before it was delivered, a senior American diplomat said. “He kind of runs by his own rules,” the official said. When President Bush ordered the two carriers into the Gulf late last year, senior administration officials said it was part of an effort to gain some negotiating leverage over the Iranians. At about the same time, American military personnel began capturing some Iranians in Iraq, and some of them are still held there. American officials have also been pressing Europeans banks and companies to avoid doing business with Tehran, in an effort to make it more difficult for the country to recycle its oil profits. Oil seemed to be on Mr. Cheney’s mind today, when he told an audience of 3,500 to 4,000 American service members on the Stennis that Iran would not be permitted to choke off oil shipments through the waters of the region. “With two carrier strike groups in the Gulf, we’re sending clear messages to friends and adversaries alike,” he said. “We’ll keep the sea lanes open. We’ll stand with our friends in opposing extremism and strategic threats. We’ll disrupt attacks on our own forces. We’ll continue bringing relief to those who suffer, and delivering justice to the enemies of freedom. And we’ll stand with others to prevent Iran from gaining nuclear weapons and dominating this region.” Some experts on Iran have questioned whether the threats that administration officials occasionally deliver to Iran aid or undercut the diplomacy with the country. “The problem with the two-track policy is that the first track — coercion, sanctions, naval deployments — can undercut the results on the second track,” said Ray Takeyh, an Iran scholar at the Council of Foreign Relations and the author of “Hidden Iran: Paradox and Power in the Islamic Republic” (Henry Holt, 2006). “There are some in Tehran who will look at Cheney on that carrier and say that everything Rice is offering is not real. What’s real, to their mind, are the coercive policies Cheney is describing. “This is a case where we are trying to get through negotiations what, so far, we couldn’t get through coercion.” The symbols of coercion were part of the backdrop on the Stennis: Mr. Cheney spoke in front of five F-18 Super Hornet warplanes. But mindful of the lasting imagery of President Bush on another carrier a little more than four years ago, there were no signs proclaiming success, much less “Mission Accomplished.” Instead, Mr. Cheney repeated his arguments about the danger of early withdrawal from Iraq. “I want you to know that the American people will not support a policy of retreat,” Mr. Cheney said. “We want to complete the mission, we want to get it done right, and then we want to return home with honor.” Mr. Cheney is on a weeklong visit to the Middle East, and made Iraq his first stop on Wednesday and Thursday. He spoke to American troops stationed near ’s birthplace, Tikrit, telling them in somber tones that they still had a tough fight ahead of them. His assessment stood in stark contrast to the one he made two years ago, when he declared in an interview with CNN that the insurgency in Iraq was in its “last throes.” The United States remains at odds with Iran over its uranium-enrichment program, which Iran says is for peaceful nuclear energy, but which America and its Western allies say is intended instead to produce atomic weapons. Administration officials have also said that weapons are being smuggled into Iraq from Iran and that insurgents may be getting training in bomb-making and bomb-placing techniques in Iran. The Iranian government denies sponsoring or encouraging terrorism. Mr. Cheney visited the U.S.S. John C. Stennis before, in March 2002, at a time when he was trying to build support for the invasion of Iraq. He also visited Abu Dhabi in the United Arab Emirates, where the president of Iran, , is expected to arrive in the next few days. Mr. Cheney’s tour is also scheduled to include visits to Saudi Arabia and Jordan. Alissa J. Rubin contributed reporting for this article from Baghdad, and Graham Bowley contributed from New York. More Articles in International &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Senators Question Halliburton Executive About Dealings in Iran No Diplomatic Change After Britons' Release THE NATION: Correspondence; Reporters and Sources Slowed Their Dance to Show the Steps DIPLOMATIC MEMO; U.S. and Iran May Steal the Show at Iraq's Security Meeting More Articles in International &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/business/11trade.html	Bush and Democrats in Accord on Trade Deals - New York Times Bush and Democrats in Accord on Trade Deals Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 WASHINGTON, May 10 — The Bush administration reached agreement on Thursday with the House speaker, , and other Democrats to attach environmental and worker protections in several pending trade accords, clearing the way for early passage of some pacts and improving prospects for others. Skip to next paragraph Doug Mills/The New York Times Representative Charles B. Rangel, above, the New York Democrat who is chairman of the Ways and Means Committee, has led negotiations to complete the trade deals along with Susan C. Schwab, the United States trade representative. Trade Deficit Hits a Six-Month High The New York Times The unusual agreement, which came after weeks of negotiations, would guarantee workers the right to organize, ban child labor and prohibit forced labor in trading-partner countries. It would also require trading partners to enforce environmental laws already on their books and comply with several international environmental agreements. While the understanding was a victory for Democrats, it also represented a shrewd compromise by the White House. The agreement is the first major bipartisan economic deal to emerge since Democrats took control of Congress in January. It has immediate importance for four countries — — that are seeking to enter into trade pacts with the United States. But officials in Washington predicted that the agreement’s effect would go beyond those countries and could be a template for all trade deals, including a possible worldwide accord. Administration officials are hoping that the agreement will cause many Democrats to support future trade deals. They hope that enough Democrats will join with , who generally support such measures, to make passage of the agreements probable, if only narrowly. The negotiations were led on the administration side by Susan C. Schwab, the top trade envoy, and Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. , and on the House side by Representative , Democrat of New York and chairman of the Ways and Means Committee. “I think today is a recognition of the results of the November election,” Ms. Pelosi said at a news conference. “It doesn’t mean that this paves the way for trade agreements where we have other obstacles. But where it comes down to labor standards and environment, this is enormous progress.” Ms. Schwab said that the agreement would send a message to trading partners that the United States was prepared to provide new impetus to the faltering talks for a global trade accord. Democrats have been pressing for worker, environmental and other protections on trade deals without success since President Bush took office in 2001. The absence of such protections has meant that when lawmakers passed measures that lowered trade barriers, they generally did so without the support of Democrats. In the 1990s, President was able to get only 40 percent of his fellow Democrats to endorse the North American Free Trade Agreement, and about 60 percent to support a global trade agreement. Since then, many Democrats have soured on measures to lower trade barriers. The breakthrough came as the politically sensitive trade deficit jumped in March to $63.9 billion, or 10 percent more than February’s revised deficit of $57.9 billion, putting the imbalance at its highest level in six months. The report, issued by the , followed a trend that economists have observed for months: even as growth slows in the United States, expanding economies abroad are creating a need for American exports. In March, exports totaled $126.2 billion, up $2.2 billion from February. Those gains were not enough to offset an $8.2 billion rise in imports, which totaled $190.1 billion. Thursday’s compromise affects four trade deals pending before Congress, two of them signed and two with negotiations that are nearly complete. All four countries would have to accept the provisions agreed to with the Democrats, but trade officials said they expected no major problems. Peru and Panama are considered most likely to win early Congressional approval. Colombia is more problematic, because Democrats are demanding that, besides the new measures, more protections be added to prevent violence against activists trying to organize workers. The South Korea accord, if put in place, would lead to the largest amount of increased trade. But it is opposed in its current version by Democrats who want greater access to that country’s markets for American beef, automobiles and auto parts. National Association of Manufacturers and other business groups hailed the understanding, but said they wanted to study its provisions before endorsing its details. Democrats have been most wary of two administration trade priorities: concluding the global negotiations known as the Doha round, named after the city in Qatar where the talks began six years ago; and extending Mr. Bush’s power to negotiate trade deals on which Congress gets only an up-or-down vote. This negotiating authority, known in Washington shorthand as fast track, has been vigorously opposed by Democrats, who say that they cannot imagine giving Mr. Bush open-ended negotiating authority. But Mr. Rangel said he could imagine a limited extension of such negotiating authority if the Doha round talks looked as if they were shaping up to be a good deal for the United States. Next Article in Business (1 of 32) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. For Democrats, New Challenge in Age-Old Rift Food Imports Often Escape Scrutiny Progress Is Seen on Trade Legislation Labor Rights Issues Are Stalling Trade Pacts International Trade and World Market United States Politics and Government Next Article in Business (1 of 32) &#x00bb; A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer First Auto Show, 1900 Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/index.html?partner=rssnyt	The New York Times - Breaking News, World News & Multimedia Friday, May 11, 2007 NYT Archive Since 1981 On Carrier in Gulf, Cheney Warns Iran By DAVID E. SANGER The vice president warned that the U.S. was prepared to use its naval power to keep Tehran from disrupting oil shipments or gaining nuclear weapons. Back Story With The Times's David Sanger ( U.S. Backs Off Plan to Tighten Limits on Guantánamo Lawyers Justice Department lawyers said they were no longer asking an appeals court in Washington to limit the lawyers to a total of three visits with detainees. Today's column looks at the art of political damage control. The Caucus Blog » Romney Elaborates on Evolution Mitt Romney's position could put him at odds with some conservative Christians. Times Topics: Mitt Romney Michael Stravato for The New York Times Giuliani Defends Stance on Abortion By MARC SANTORA and MARIA NEWMAN Rudolph W. Giuliani said that he favors abortion rights, certain restrictions on gun ownership and gay rights. More From The Caucus Mixed Mood on Campus at Va. Tech Graduation Today, as parents arrived for graduation ceremonies, it was hard to tell the tears of joy from those of sadness. Blair Endorses Gordon Brown as His Successor Pope Canonizes Brazil’s First Native-Born Saint Wildfire Threatens a California Resort Island Bats: A Cabrera by Any Other Name The Caucus: Romney Elaborates on Evolution The Lede: The Day the Union Jack Got Beat Back The Lede: A Prominent Iraqi Blogger Flees Puffing Away That PG Rating Do you think movies that contain smoking deserve a more restrictive rating? Armless, One - Legged Driver Leads Chase Va. Tech Graduations Honor Slain Victims Mysterious Object Probably Space Junk Thomson Selling Assets to Private Group "28 Weeks Later" is smart, both in its ideas and techniques, writes A. O. Scott. Don’t Mess With Grandma “Georgia Rule” takes its plot in surprising directions, writes A. O. Scott. Chasing an Old Flame The best jokes in “The Ex” leave scratches, writes Stephen Holden. Brooks: Blair and Iraq Editorial: Reality in Iraq What You Get for ...$1.6 Million Homes on the market in Keswick, Va., Scottsdale, Ariz., and San Luis Obispo, Calif. Slide Show: $1.6 Million Homes More in Real Estate Mortgage News and Rates America's Best Private Club Membership Place a Classified Ad » Certified? Yes. Satisfied? Not Always. Some car buyers find that certification doesn’t protect them. Submit photos and comment on other readers' cars. Also, keep track of events Go to Photo Gallery Place a Classified Ad » Post a job online More in Job Market Browse jobs by industry Browse jobs by location What to Do About Wanderlust Yes, there are sensible ways to look into a new career while keeping your old one. Place a Classified Ad » Find a Classifieds listing Home & Garden Directory Small Inns & Lodges Post a classifieds ad online GOLDBERG HOLDINGS SEEKS CAPITAL FOR FORECLOSURE ACQUISITIONS IN VEGAS Goldberg Holdings is......... Place a Classified Ad » SAVE 50% ON HOME DELIVERY Have The New York Times waiting for you, as little as $3.15 a week. Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense Earn 5.05% APY - Open a Complete Savings Acct from E*TRADE Bank Be Prepared. Fight ID Theft. Equifax Credit Watch™. Equifax.com Photos, fine art, books and more. Pressed by Police, Even Innocent Confess in Japan President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Marine Says His Staff Misled Him on Killings Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard 6 Charged in Fort Dix Plot Held Without Bail New Mayor but Familiar Issues on Dallas’s Horizon Bush and Democrats in Accord on Labor Rights in Trade Deals Romney Works to Put Skeptics’ Doubts to Rest President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Awaiting Rock-Eating Beast, L.I.R.R. Tunnel Is Poised to Finish Trip to Grand Central National Guard to Patrol PATH Stations A Slow, Steady Approach to Governing in Corzine’s First Week Back Purdue Will Reinvestigate Its Professor Who Claimed Desktop Fusion State Closes Coal-Fired Plant That Failed to Limit Emissions A Nuclear Reactor Reborn Electric Pulses, Instead of Shocks, Can Help Heart Patients Passage of Drug Safety Bill Was Common Goal for Two Very Different Senators F.D.A. Panel Seeks Limits on Cancer Patient Drugs Spellings Rejects Criticism on Student Loan Scandal Purdue Will Reinvestigate Its Professor Who Claimed Desktop Fusion House Passes Ban on Gifts From Student Lenders Away: Restoring an Old House and Putting Down Deeper Roots A Ski Community Where There’s No Such Thing as Too Much Havens | St. Petersburg Fla.: A Neighborhood of Colonials and Palm Trees Bush and Democrats in Accord on Trade Deals Thomson to Sell Educational Group Prices Are Stable Except for Gasoline Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds At Vonage, Sales Increase as Litigation Clouds Future Out of Chaos, Order. Or So Google Says. Feliciano Uses Guile to Aid the Mets Brewers Off to a Fast Start Nadal Matches McEnroe's Surface Streak In the Big House ... Just Visiting 36 Hours in St. Petersburg, Russia Weekend With the Kids: In Monterey, Where Sea Lions and Children Are at Play Dining & Wine &#x00bb; The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Op-Ed Contributor: Less Green at the Farmers’ Market Critic’s Notebook: In Los Angeles, the Accidental Pizza Maker Home & Garden &#x00bb; Aspiring to the Throne At Home With Charlie White: Order and Chaos in a Single Heartbeat In the Garden: It Takes a Hammer to Grow This Salad Fashion & Style &#x00bb; Faster Fashion, Cheaper Chic It’s Her World, We’re Just Buying It The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Earnhardt Drops Team Built by His Father to Become a Free Agent Shareholders Give Ex-Chief the Blame for Ford Woes Editorial: Mr. Bush Alone Op-Ed Contributor: Give the Arab Peace Initiative a Chance To Raise a Down Syndrome Child (6 Letters) Music: Off the Beaten Beat Harlem’s Cultural Anchor in a Sea of Ideas Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Film: A Loving Look at a Cinematic Tough Guy: Gangster, Hit Man, Gunslinger Movie Review | 'Georgia Rule': Hey, California Girl, Don’t Mess With Grandma Theater Review | 'Memory': From Wales, Tales of Berlin Then and Bethlehem Now Theater Review | 'Couples': Blissful and Benighted: Dispatches From the War of the Sexes 'Animal, Vegetable, Miracle,' by Barbara Kingsolver: Because It’s Good for You, That’s Why 'Troublesome Young Men,' by Lynne Olson: In Churchill’s Rise to Power, a Rough Path of Rebellion Three Writers of Nonfiction Are Honored Week in Review &#x00bb; Nervous Energy: The (Not So) Eagerly Modern Saudi The In Crowd: Playing ‘Survivor’ in Washington Ideas & Trends: Rupert Murdoch, Once the Outsider The New Middle Ages: The Older-and-Wiser Hypothesis The New Middle Ages: A Longer, Better Life The New Middle Ages: Self-Nonmedication The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer About the NYT Co. Jobs at the NYT Co. Add New York Times headlines to your site Add New York Times RSS Feeds Get home delivery of The New York Times, as little as $3.15 a week. The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/world/middleeast/11cnd-cheney.html	On Carrier in Gulf, Cheney Warns Iran - New York Times On Carrier in Gulf, Cheney Warns Iran Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 BRUSSELS, May 11 — Vice President used the deck of an American aircraft carrier just 150 miles off ’s coast as the backdrop today to warn the country that the United States was prepared to use its naval power to keep Tehran from disrupting off oil routes or “gaining nuclear weapons and dominating this region.” Skip to next paragraph Vice President Dick Cheney on board the USS John C. Stennis aircraft carrier in the Persian Gulf today. Back Story With The Times's David Sanger ( Little of what Mr. Cheney said in the cavernous hangar bay of the aircraft carrier U.S.S. John C. Stennis, one of two carriers whose strike groups are now in the Persian Gulf, was new. Each individual line had, in some form, been said before, at various points in the four-year-long nuclear standoff with Iran, and during the increasingly tense arguments over whether Iran is aiding the insurgents in Iraq. But Mr. Cheney stitched all of those warnings together, and the symbolism of sending the administration’s most famous hawk to deliver the speech so close to Iran’s coast was unmistakable. It also came just a week after Secretary of State talked briefly and inconclusively with Iran’s foreign minister, a step toward re-engagement with Iran that some in the administration have opposed. Mr. Cheney’s sharp warnings appeared to be part of a two-track administration campaign to push back at Iran, while leaving the door open to negotiations. It was almost exactly a year ago that the United States offered to negotiate with Iran as long as it first agreed to halt enriching uranium, a decision in which Mr. Cheney, participants said, was not a major player. Similarly, the speech today was not circulated broadly in the government before it was delivered, a senior American diplomat said. “He kind of runs by his own rules,” the official said. When President Bush ordered the two carriers into the Gulf late last year, senior administration officials said it was part of an effort to gain some negotiating leverage over the Iranians. At about the same time, American military personnel began capturing some Iranians in Iraq, and some of them are still held there. American officials have also been pressing Europeans banks and companies to avoid doing business with Tehran, in an effort to make it more difficult for the country to recycle its oil profits. Oil seemed to be on Mr. Cheney’s mind today, when he told an audience of 3,500 to 4,000 American service members on the Stennis that Iran would not be permitted to choke off oil shipments through the waters of the region. “With two carrier strike groups in the Gulf, we’re sending clear messages to friends and adversaries alike,” he said. “We’ll keep the sea lanes open. We’ll stand with our friends in opposing extremism and strategic threats. We’ll disrupt attacks on our own forces. We’ll continue bringing relief to those who suffer, and delivering justice to the enemies of freedom. And we’ll stand with others to prevent Iran from gaining nuclear weapons and dominating this region.” Some experts on Iran have questioned whether the threats that administration officials occasionally deliver to Iran aid or undercut the diplomacy with the country. “The problem with the two-track policy is that the first track — coercion, sanctions, naval deployments — can undercut the results on the second track,” said Ray Takeyh, an Iran scholar at the Council of Foreign Relations and the author of “Hidden Iran: Paradox and Power in the Islamic Republic” (Henry Holt, 2006). “There are some in Tehran who will look at Cheney on that carrier and say that everything Rice is offering is not real. What’s real, to their mind, are the coercive policies Cheney is describing. “This is a case where we are trying to get through negotiations what, so far, we couldn’t get through coercion.” The symbols of coercion were part of the backdrop on the Stennis: Mr. Cheney spoke in front of five F-18 Super Hornet warplanes. But mindful of the lasting imagery of President Bush on another carrier a little more than four years ago, there were no signs proclaiming success, much less “Mission Accomplished.” Instead, Mr. Cheney repeated his arguments about the danger of early withdrawal from Iraq. “I want you to know that the American people will not support a policy of retreat,” Mr. Cheney said. “We want to complete the mission, we want to get it done right, and then we want to return home with honor.” Mr. Cheney is on a weeklong visit to the Middle East, and made Iraq his first stop on Wednesday and Thursday. He spoke to American troops stationed near ’s birthplace, Tikrit, telling them in somber tones that they still had a tough fight ahead of them. His assessment stood in stark contrast to the one he made two years ago, when he declared in an interview with CNN that the insurgency in Iraq was in its “last throes.” The United States remains at odds with Iran over its uranium-enrichment program, which Iran says is for peaceful nuclear energy, but which America and its Western allies say is intended instead to produce atomic weapons. Administration officials have also said that weapons are being smuggled into Iraq from Iran and that insurgents may be getting training in bomb-making and bomb-placing techniques in Iran. The Iranian government denies sponsoring or encouraging terrorism. Mr. Cheney visited the U.S.S. John C. Stennis before, in March 2002, at a time when he was trying to build support for the invasion of Iraq. He also visited Abu Dhabi in the United Arab Emirates, where the president of Iran, , is expected to arrive in the next few days. Mr. Cheney’s tour is also scheduled to include visits to Saudi Arabia and Jordan. Alissa J. Rubin contributed reporting for this article from Baghdad, and Graham Bowley contributed from New York. More Articles in International &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Senators Question Halliburton Executive About Dealings in Iran No Diplomatic Change After Britons' Release THE NATION: Correspondence; Reporters and Sources Slowed Their Dance to Show the Steps DIPLOMATIC MEMO; U.S. and Iran May Steal the Show at Iraq's Security Meeting More Articles in International &#x00bb; A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Shuttle Roars Back - Jigsaw Puzzle Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/washington/11cong.html?ex=1336536000&en=c0ca43110c9f718b&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure - New York Times President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Stephen Crowley/The New York Times President Bush, who visited the Pentagon, said he would agree to setting firm goals for the Iraqi government in the spending bill that is being debated in Congress. Though he had agreed to benchmarks before, Mr. Bush was unwilling to link them to financing or troop withdrawal. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 WASHINGTON, May 10 — Hours before the House approved a plan on Thursday to finance the war only through midsummer, President Bush offered his first public concession to try to resolve the impasse on war spending, acknowledging rising pressure from his own party and the public. After a briefing at the Pentagon, Mr. Bush said he had instructed , the White House chief of staff, to reach “common ground” with lawmakers of both parties over setting firm goals, or benchmarks, to measure progress in Iraq. Mr. Bush had previously insisted that he wanted about $95 billion for the military with no strings attached. “It makes sense to have benchmarks as a part of our discussion on how to go forward,” Mr. Bush said, even as he threatened to veto the House plan, approved on a 221-to-205 vote Thursday night, which would require him to seek approval in two months for the balance of the war money. Still, Congressional leaders say the plan may never reach his desk, because the Senate is likely to take a different approach. Before the vote on Thursday, House Democrats demonstrated their opposition to continuing the war when 169 of them voted for a separate plan that would have required the withdrawal of American troops to begin in 90 days, with most forces out within another six months. joined in that effort, which failed by a 255-to-171 vote. Still, the plan attracted more support than anticipated. Speaker was among those voting in favor of it. Fifty-nine Democrats, including Representative of Maryland, the majority leader, opposed the proposal along with 196 Republicans. “We finally got to vote for what we believed in,” said Representative Jim McGovern, Democrat of Massachusetts and a sponsor of the withdrawal plan. The bill approved by the House would provide $42.8 billion total, with about $30 billion directed to the war effort for the next two months. It requires the president to report by July 13 on how the Iraqi government is performing in building its military and moving toward achieving political unity. Congress would then vote a second time on whether to give the administration the remainder of the money — about $50 billion — to maintain operations in Iraq through Sept. 30 or to restrict that money to deployment. “No more,” said Mr. Hoyer, who backed the plan. “No more blank checks.” Republicans derided the Democratic approach as war on the installment plan, and they and Mr. Bush said the two-stage financing was unworkable. Once the Senate is through with its negotiations, lawmakers say, a final measure may be ready for the White House by the end of the month. Mr. Bush, who on Tuesday received a blunt assessment from Republican moderates about rising voter unrest over Iraq, acknowledged the public’s impatience with the war. But he said he could not allow political considerations like “the latest opinion poll, or how we can get our members elected” to drive his thinking. “My message to the members of Congress is, whatever your beliefs may be, let’s make sure our troops get funded, and let’s make sure politicians don’t tell our commanders how to conduct operations,” Mr. Bush said. Though Republicans voted solidly with the president, many made it clear that the administration had until September — the deadline for a progress report from Gen. , the commander in Iraq — to prove its war strategy was working. While it was Republican moderates who took their complaints directly to the president this week, others in the party expressed similar misgivings on Thursday. “There is a significant undercurrent that is looking for a reasonable way forward in Iraq,” said Representative Jeff Fortenberry, a conservative Republican of Nebraska, adding that the war is a leading concern for his constituents. “People are very conflicted in their hearts.” Several Republicans are considering bipartisan legislation aimed at changing the war’s course. Senators Olympia Snowe of Maine and of Tennessee have introduced separate proposals aimed at bringing a gradual end to the war. “We are troubled by the current policy,” Ms. Snowe said Thursday. “The White House needs to hear it.” While the White House has not opposed setting general goals for progress in Iraq, they have resisted any effort to tie financing or troop withdrawal plans to the benchmarks. On Thursday, Democrats welcomed the president’s new willingness to authorize negotiations on benchmarks but said any failure by Iraq to meet specified goals must result in penalties or they would be meaningless. “There is a recognition that things are not going well,” said Senator , Democrat of Nevada and the majority leader. “The only person who doesn’t believe there needs to be a change is the president.” The Senate hopes to consider its version of the war spending measure sometime next week, and Democrats have not made public many of their ideas. Lawmakers and senior administration officials say the most likely course is that the Senate would approve a new measure dropping the withdrawal date Mr. Bush objected to in vetoing the initial legislation but retaining other restrictions, while providing the president the ability to waive them. The White House has not been receptive in the past to proposals for such waivers. Speaking on condition of anonymity, a senior White House official disputed the notion that Mr. Bush’s agreement to consider signing a bill with specific benchmarks for the Iraqis to meet was tied to Republican complaints that more pressure be brought to bear on the Iraqi government to make faster progress toward political reconciliation. “We’ve said all along there’s going to be a compromise,” he said. The official said the president understood that if General Petraeus delivered a bad assessment of conditions in Iraq in September, it would make it hard for some Republicans to continue supporting the war. For all of the administration’s complaints about the Democratic approach, officials concede that the lawmakers’ efforts to impose a timetable for American withdrawal may at least have helped emphasize the president’s point to the Prime Minister that American patience is wearing thin and Iraq needs to act more urgently toward political reconciliation. Some White House officials privately expressed displeasure Thursday that the concerns the Republican moderates raised with the president became public. Vice President did not mince words in an interview with the Fox News Channel. “We didn’t get elected to be popular,” Mr. Cheney said. “We didn’t get elected to worry just about the fate of the Republican Party.” Some lawmakers said they had lost patience not only with the war in Iraq, but also with the continuing legislative and political conflict in Congress as the two parties maneuver over the war. “The Republicans should not be saying the Democrats don’t support the troops, nor should the Democrats be calling Republicans warmongers,” said Representative Jo Ann Emerson, Republican of Missouri and one of the 11 moderates who met with Mr. Bush on Tuesday. “Politics have taken over, and our soldiers deserve better.” Jeff Zeleny contributed reporting. More Articles in Washington &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Times Names Ex-Executive of Knight Ridder as Public Editor THE REACH OF WAR; Clinton Proposes Vote to Reverse Authorizing War THE REACH OF WAR; Inspector of Projects in Iraq Is Now Under Investigation More Articles in Washington &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/world/europe/11cnd-blair.html	Blair Endorses Gordon Brown as His Successor - New York Times Blair Endorses Gordon Brown as His Successor Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 LONDON, May 11 — A day after announcing that he would step down in June, Prime Minister offered a fulsome if long-delayed endorsement today of as his successor, calling him “an extraordinary and rare talent.” Skip to next paragraph Gordon Brown with his wife, Sarah, and his campaign manager, Jack Straw, left, launching his campaign for leadership of Britain's Labor Party today in London. Blair Choreographs End to a Stewardship Dogged by Iraq Then, Mr. Blair set off on what seemed a first stage of a lengthy and closely-scripted goodbye tour, even as Mr. Brown, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, planned an equally busy campaign to persuade Britons of his suitability for the job of prime minister. As a first step to becoming prime minister, Mr. Brown announced his candidacy in the race for the Labor Party leadership, although it is doubtful that he will face serious opposition. Most Labor Party heavyweights who might have challenged Mr. Brown signaled their reluctance to do so in the weeks leading to Mr. Blair’s announcement on Thursday that he would step down on June 27. Two Labor left-wingers who said they would challenge Mr. Brown have failed to reach a deal on which of them should stand, apparently because of a lack of support among Labor lawmakers. Mr. Brown appeared before a crowd of cheering, youthful Labor Party supporters in central London to make his announcement today. “Today I announce that I’m a candidate to be leader of the Labor Party and to lead a new government,” he said. In a clear effort to distance himself from Mr. Blair, he promised greater government accountability, new procedures to allow parliament a voice in going to war and a greater stress on what he called “hearts and minds” alongside military efforts to combat terrorism and promote security. “Tony Blair has led our country for 10 years with distinction, with courage, with passion and with insight and in the weeks and months ahead my task is to show that I have the new ideas, the vision and the experience to earn the trust of the British people,” Mr. Brown said. “Today there are new priorities and I offer a new leadership for this new time.” Mr. Brown launched his campaign with a new slogan — “Gordon Brown for Britain” — and a personal manifesto that ranged from his views on society to his plans to visit British troops in Iraq. “Let me set out simply my core belief,” he said. “The Britain I believe in is a Britain of fairness and opportunity for all British citizens — every British citizen with every chance to make the most of themselves, every community fair to every citizen. If you work hard you are better off, if you save you are rewarded, if you play by the rules we will stand by you. “These are for me the best of British values: responsibilities required in return for rights, fairness not just for some but for all who earn it,” he said. “With the challenge of terrorism unlike anything that we have faced, the people of Britain want us strong in defense and security, succeeding not only militarily but also opening a new front, working with our allies to win the battle of hearts and minds at home and abroad,” he went on. He added: “Just as my first act as Chancellor of the Exchequer was to give away power to the Bank of England to restore trust in economic policy, so one of my first acts as Prime Minister would be to restore power to Parliament in order to build the trust of the British people in our democracy. Government must be more open and more accountable to Parliament — for example, in decisions about peace and war.” Mr. Brown continued: “In the next few weeks I will also visit our Armed Forces and the Middle East so we learn the lessons we have to learn from the last few years and we focus on the best ways to achieve lasting stability.” And he offered politics of conciliation without the star-dust that marked Mr. Blair’s early years. “I will form a government of all the talents, bringing people together, to listen, to learn and solve problems building on a broad sense of national purpose,” he said. “I do not believe politics is about celebrity,” he said. “When you put yourself forward for leadership, the country has a right to know where you come from, what you believe in and what you want to achieve. My father was a minister. For me, my parents were, and their inspiration still is, my moral compass. It’s a compass which has guided me through each stage of my life. They taught me the importance of integrity and decency, of treating people fairly and of duty to others.” “I want to lead a government humble enough to know its place, where I will always strive to be -- and that’s on people’s side,” he said. But Mr. Brown did not go into detail about foreign policy, particularly his view of the United States. Reluctant to be seen as a lame duck prime minister, Mr. Blair met at 10 Downing Street early today with Jalal Talabani, the Iraqi president, who praised him at a brief news conference as a “great leader” — a markedly different assessment from that of many British adversaries who criticize his decision to join the American invasion of Iraq in 2003. Mr. Blair also pledged to “still do everything I can” to work for an Israeli-Palestinian settlement. Then he planned to visit outgoing President in Paris, according to British media reports. But during the news conference, he broke away from pondering European and Middle East issues to answer a question from a reporter who wanted to know whether he would support Mr. Brown as his successor. “I am absolutely delighted to give my full support to Gordon as the next leader of the Labor Party and as Prime Minister and to endorse him fully,” Mr. Blair said. “He is an extraordinary and rare talent and it’s a tremendous thing if it’s put at the service of the nation as it now can be. He has shown, as perhaps the most successful Chancellor in our country’s history, that he’s got the strength and the experience and the judgment to make a great Prime Minister,” Mr. Blair said. “I know he’s absolutely determined to drive the modernization of the country forward in order to meet the challenges of the coming decade. I also believe that, as someone who has known him for over 20 years as a friend and a colleague, he can make a real difference to this country for the better and for the good,” he said. “I wish him well and, as I say, I’m delighted to support him and endorse him fully,” said Mr. Blair, choosing words Mr. Brown has reportedly been waiting to hear since the two men struck a leadership pact over dinner in 1994 — three years before Labor came to power. More Articles in International &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Scot With Baggage Readies for Leader&#8217;s Role Midterm Vote Could Give Blair A Last Hurrah, Or a Swift Kick World Briefing | Europe: Britain: Blair Gives A Nod To Gordon Brown Police Query Blair as Witness In Graft Allegation Scandal More Articles in International &#x00bb; A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/us/11cnd-blaze.html	Wildfire Threatens a California Resort Island - New York Times Wildfire Threatens a California Resort Island Smoke rose over Avalon on Thursday. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 Firefighters struggled early today to prevent a wildfire from reaching homes on the edge of Santa Catalina Island’s main town, as residents and visitors fled the resort island off the Southern California coast. Skip to next paragraph The New York Times A wildfire approached Santa Catalina Island&#146;s main city, Avalon, on Thursday. People wait to be evacuated from the town of Avalon, Calif., as smoke from a wildfire rises in the background on Santa Catalina Island. At least 160 firefighters, aided by four water-dropping helicopters and three retardant-dropping air tankers, battled flames through most of Thursday. The helicopters flew into the night and were back in the air at dawn today. Dozens of fire engines from as far away as Fresno arrived through the night aboard giant military hovercraft from the Marine Corps base at Camp Pendleton. The high-speed hovercraft can carry 60 tons of cargo over land or water, and are often used by the military on humanitarian missions. The blaze broke out Thursday afternoon on the island, which is more than 20 miles off the coast. Flames threatened the city limits of Avalon, where hundreds of people lined up at the harbor Thursday night to board ferries back to the mainland. Many covered their faces with towels and bandanas as ashes fell around them. A few homes on the island were burned, but firefighters worked to protect other properties late into the night, said Steven Hoefs, the chief of the Avalon fire department. Some 1,200 homes were under voluntary or mandatory evacuation orders. “We’re hanging in for now,” Chief Hoefs said. The blaze, which began five miles east of the island’s airport, grew to cover 4,000 acres, feeding on dry brush and scrub as winds steadily blew throughout the day and into the night on Thursday. Winds later calmed and the air grew more humid, although the threat of fire remained. An orange inferno loomed behind the quaint crescent-shaped harbor, the landmark 1929 Catalina Casino, and the homes, restaurants and tiny hotels clinging to slopes above the Avalon waterfront. A commercial building and several warehouses burned, and 175 utility customers lost electricity when power poles caught on fire. Overnight, Blackhawk and Chinook helicopters were ferrying in firefighters, 32 at a time. Crews were being positioned at the city’s edge to protect homes. “We’re on defense mode for now,” Chief Hoefs said. In Avalon, authorities used a bullhorn to urge people to evacuate the city and head to the beach. Visitors to the island were directed to the historic Art Deco-style Casino building until it lost power, while residents were sent to another site along the harbor. The Catalina Express ferry service added several night departures of 400-passenger vessels from Avalon. Hundreds of residents and visitors boarded the ferries to reach the mainland. A family of eight said they had just enough time to pack some clothes and personal papers before fleeing. “I’m scared,” said Angelica Romero, 30, holding her 7-month-old daughter. “But what’s important is I have my children. The rest doesn’t matter.” At the mainland port of Long Beach, Kathy Troeger, a Santa Catalina resident, arrived by ferry with her three children and a friend’s daughter. Her husband, a fire captain, stayed behind to help fight the blaze. “It was like a nightmare when we left,” she said. “You couldn’t breathe, and ash was falling like snow.” An evacuation center was set up at Cabrillo High School, where about 85 people had checked in, according to the Red Cross. Santa Catalina has been left parched by the same lack of rainfall that has made the Southern California mainland particularly susceptible to wildfires, like the one in Griffith Park in Los Angeles earlier this week. Firefighters were still working there today to surround what remained of the fire, which briefly chased people from adjacent homes and threatened the park’s landmark observatory and its zoo. Los Angeles officials had expected the Griffith Park fire to be fully contained by Thursday, two days after it peaked, and no visible flames remained, but fire crews were still building containment lines around the fire’s perimeter late into the night. Only 2 inches of rain have fallen on Santa Catalina since January. The island is long and fairly narrow, covering a total of 76 square miles of land area, most of it owned and kept as a preserve by the Santa Catalina Island Conservancy. various wildlife. The populated areas are served by helicopters and ferry boats from Los Angeles, Long Beach and other mainland harbors. Avalon, the main town, has a year-round population of 3,200, but swells to more than 10,000 on weekends and in the summer, according to the Catalina Island Chamber of Commerce and Visitors Bureau. The Associated Press contributed to this report. More Articles in National &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. More Articles in National &#x00bb; A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer The Battery, Lower Manhattan, New York, 1945 Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/us/11cnd-virginia.html	Mixed Mood on Campus at Va. Tech Graduation - New York Times Mixed Mood on Campus at Va. Tech Graduation A Virginia Tech student paying his respects at a memorial to the shooting victims before the start of commencement exercises. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 BLACKSBURG, Va., May 11 — Commencement at the was supposed to be a moment for parents to watch their children take a symbolic step. From a youthful safe haven, students would graduate into a larger and less predictable world. Skip to next paragraph Melanie Blanding for The New York Times A memorial to the victims of the shootings at Virginia Tech. But that harsh unpredictability came to the Virginia Tech campus in April with a deadly shooting rampage. And today, as thousands of parents arrived for graduation ceremonies, it was hard to tell the tears of joy from those of sadness. Students shared giddy hugs and tossed their tassels. In quieter moments, they also spoke of feelings of guilt and the uncomfortable celebrity of having survived. Faculty members regaled proud parents with classroom anecdotes. They also said they still struggled to find the right words to capture the conflicting mix of emotions. “This is supposed to be a celebration,” said Bryan Cloyd, who is both a parent of one the slain students and a professor on campus. Mr. Cloyd carried a distinct trepidation into the ceremonies, but overcame an initial reluctance to join the festivities. He will receive an honorary degree for his 18-year-old daughter, Austin, in hopes of helping remove the “emotional cloud” still looming over campus, he said. “We’re also looking for any healing we can get,” he added. Caroline Merrey, a senior, said she hoped that graduation and the promise of summer would lessen her haunting sense of guilt. “There are lots of days when I think I should have gone back and done something,” said Ms. Merrey, who leapt from a classroom window while her professor, , blocked the door, temporarily keeping the gunman at bay. “I’m lucky that I didn’t get shot and I’m still here. But I feel like what I did was a cheap way out.” Professor Librescu died of gunshot wounds. Ms. Merry said she plans to move in the coming weeks to Chicago, where some of her relatives live, and to start looking there for a job in engineering. Distance and a recent haircut may help restore an anonymity and normalcy that was removed by the shootings, she added. “Graduation is hard enough, because you don’t know what happens next,” she said. “It’s even harder with these emotions, all the media, and the reminders everywhere of what happened.” Karan Grewal, a former suitemate of the gunman, , said his mind drifts to questions he would rather avoid. “I think about why he didn’t start with us back at the suite, and why he went to the other dorm instead,” Mr. Grewal said. “But my philosophy has been that if I let those thoughts take over, then Cho won. So, I focus on enjoying graduation and moving forward.” Looking toward Saturday, when individual departments will hold their own ceremonies, Nikki Giovanni, a poet and English Department professor, said it was a difficult time to be a public speaker. “You have this elephant in the room, and you don’t know how to tame it,” said Ms. Giovanni, who was asked by others on the faculty to speak at her departmental ceremony. “You can’t dwell on what happened, but you can’t overlook it either.” Still, she said, her job was easier than others. She would not need to write much new material, because her department asked her to deliver her poem, “We are Virginia Tech,” again. She presented that poem during a convocation in the days after the shooting, and it became an emotional turning point during that ceremony, bringing a somber crowd to its feet in clapping and chanting. Saturday’s commencement address will be the last time she reads the poem publicly, she said, because she does not want it to become the defining voice of the tragedy. More than with sorrow, Dr. Ishwar K. Puri said he finished the year with an overwhelming sense of awe at the generosity of strangers. Dr. Puri, the chairman of the Department of Engineering Science and Mechanics, said that when the police sealed off Norris Hall, the site of most of the shooting, as a crime scene, his 24 faculty members, 80 doctoral students and 25 master’s students were left blocked from their laboratories. Their research ground to a halt; so did their ability to apply for jobs or for research grants. But offers to help began arriving almost immediately, he said. The Technical University of Delft in the Netherlands invited his whole faculty to work in its laboratories on paid sabbaticals. Dell, the computer manufacturer, donated 30 laptop and 20 desktop computers to replace those left stranded in the inaccessible laboratories. University opened their laboratories for internships. “Really, this has turned into a story of hope, not despair,” he said. He added, however, that as he looked toward the summer, he had to admit there was a small sense of dread, too. As the spirit of Hokie pride subsides on campus with the departure of students and faculty, Dr. Puri said he was not looking forward to facing a painful task he has put off for weeks: the writing of a job announcement to seek replacements for the two professors in his department who were killed. “Doing that strikes you with the finality of it all,” he said. “How, really, do you replace people who were colleagues, friends, individuals? You can’t.” More Articles in National &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. ON EDUCATION; Deciding When Student Writing Crosses the Line Privacy Laws Slow Efforts To Widen Gun-Buyer Data Torn by University Shootings, Virginia Town Turns Inward to Mend Virginia Ends A Loophole In Gun Laws Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University More Articles in National &#x00bb; A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Shuttle Roars Back - Jigsaw Puzzle Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/world/europe/11cnd-blair.html?ex=1336536000&en=8c55788d4c7f0f12&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Blair Endorses Gordon Brown as His Successor - New York Times Blair Endorses Gordon Brown as His Successor Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 LONDON, May 11 — A day after announcing that he would step down in June, Prime Minister offered a fulsome if long-delayed endorsement today of as his successor, calling him “an extraordinary and rare talent.” Skip to next paragraph Gordon Brown with his wife, Sarah, and his campaign manager, Jack Straw, left, launching his campaign for leadership of Britain's Labor Party today in London. Blair Choreographs End to a Stewardship Dogged by Iraq Then, Mr. Blair set off on what seemed a first stage of a lengthy and closely-scripted goodbye tour, even as Mr. Brown, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, planned an equally busy campaign to persuade Britons of his suitability for the job of prime minister. As a first step to becoming prime minister, Mr. Brown announced his candidacy in the race for the Labor Party leadership, although it is doubtful that he will face serious opposition. Most Labor Party heavyweights who might have challenged Mr. Brown signaled their reluctance to do so in the weeks leading to Mr. Blair’s announcement on Thursday that he would step down on June 27. Two Labor left-wingers who said they would challenge Mr. Brown have failed to reach a deal on which of them should stand, apparently because of a lack of support among Labor lawmakers. Mr. Brown appeared before a crowd of cheering, youthful Labor Party supporters in central London to make his announcement today. “Today I announce that I’m a candidate to be leader of the Labor Party and to lead a new government,” he said. In a clear effort to distance himself from Mr. Blair, he promised greater government accountability, new procedures to allow parliament a voice in going to war and a greater stress on what he called “hearts and minds” alongside military efforts to combat terrorism and promote security. “Tony Blair has led our country for 10 years with distinction, with courage, with passion and with insight and in the weeks and months ahead my task is to show that I have the new ideas, the vision and the experience to earn the trust of the British people,” Mr. Brown said. “Today there are new priorities and I offer a new leadership for this new time.” Mr. Brown launched his campaign with a new slogan — “Gordon Brown for Britain” — and a personal manifesto that ranged from his views on society to his plans to visit British troops in Iraq. “Let me set out simply my core belief,” he said. “The Britain I believe in is a Britain of fairness and opportunity for all British citizens — every British citizen with every chance to make the most of themselves, every community fair to every citizen. If you work hard you are better off, if you save you are rewarded, if you play by the rules we will stand by you. “These are for me the best of British values: responsibilities required in return for rights, fairness not just for some but for all who earn it,” he said. “With the challenge of terrorism unlike anything that we have faced, the people of Britain want us strong in defense and security, succeeding not only militarily but also opening a new front, working with our allies to win the battle of hearts and minds at home and abroad,” he went on. He added: “Just as my first act as Chancellor of the Exchequer was to give away power to the Bank of England to restore trust in economic policy, so one of my first acts as Prime Minister would be to restore power to Parliament in order to build the trust of the British people in our democracy. Government must be more open and more accountable to Parliament — for example, in decisions about peace and war.” Mr. Brown continued: “In the next few weeks I will also visit our Armed Forces and the Middle East so we learn the lessons we have to learn from the last few years and we focus on the best ways to achieve lasting stability.” And he offered politics of conciliation without the star-dust that marked Mr. Blair’s early years. “I will form a government of all the talents, bringing people together, to listen, to learn and solve problems building on a broad sense of national purpose,” he said. “I do not believe politics is about celebrity,” he said. “When you put yourself forward for leadership, the country has a right to know where you come from, what you believe in and what you want to achieve. My father was a minister. For me, my parents were, and their inspiration still is, my moral compass. It’s a compass which has guided me through each stage of my life. They taught me the importance of integrity and decency, of treating people fairly and of duty to others.” “I want to lead a government humble enough to know its place, where I will always strive to be -- and that’s on people’s side,” he said. But Mr. Brown did not go into detail about foreign policy, particularly his view of the United States. Reluctant to be seen as a lame duck prime minister, Mr. Blair met at 10 Downing Street early today with Jalal Talabani, the Iraqi president, who praised him at a brief news conference as a “great leader” — a markedly different assessment from that of many British adversaries who criticize his decision to join the American invasion of Iraq in 2003. Mr. Blair also pledged to “still do everything I can” to work for an Israeli-Palestinian settlement. Then he planned to visit outgoing President in Paris, according to British media reports. But during the news conference, he broke away from pondering European and Middle East issues to answer a question from a reporter who wanted to know whether he would support Mr. Brown as his successor. “I am absolutely delighted to give my full support to Gordon as the next leader of the Labor Party and as Prime Minister and to endorse him fully,” Mr. Blair said. “He is an extraordinary and rare talent and it’s a tremendous thing if it’s put at the service of the nation as it now can be. He has shown, as perhaps the most successful Chancellor in our country’s history, that he’s got the strength and the experience and the judgment to make a great Prime Minister,” Mr. Blair said. “I know he’s absolutely determined to drive the modernization of the country forward in order to meet the challenges of the coming decade. I also believe that, as someone who has known him for over 20 years as a friend and a colleague, he can make a real difference to this country for the better and for the good,” he said. “I wish him well and, as I say, I’m delighted to support him and endorse him fully,” said Mr. Blair, choosing words Mr. Brown has reportedly been waiting to hear since the two men struck a leadership pact over dinner in 1994 — three years before Labor came to power. More Articles in International &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Scot With Baggage Readies for Leader&#8217;s Role Midterm Vote Could Give Blair A Last Hurrah, Or a Swift Kick World Briefing | Europe: Britain: Blair Gives A Nod To Gordon Brown Police Query Blair as Witness In Graft Allegation Scandal More Articles in International &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/world/americas/11cnd-pope.html?ex=1336536000&en=93c9c9fa594d947b&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Pope Canonizes Brazil&#8217;s First Native-Born Saint - New York Times Pope Canonizes Brazil’s First Native-Born Saint Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 , May 11 — After canonizing Brazil’s first native-born saint and receiving a bracing dose of Brazilian-style religious fervor at an outdoor mass here today, called for more forceful evangelization efforts throughout Latin America to counter growing conversions to Pentecostal Protestant groups. Skip to next paragraph Orlando Kissner/Agence France-Presse - Getty Images Pope Benedict XVI celebrating Mass in S&#227;o Paulo today. Pope Addresses Brazil’s Youth and Meets With the President The faithful carrying images of Pope Benedict XVI and Friar Galvao at the canonization ceremony today in Sao Paulo, Brazil, today. Pope Benedict XVI today in Sao Paulo, Brazil. “No effort should be spared in seeking out those Catholics who have fallen away and those who know little or nothing of Jesus Christ,” he told Brazilian bishops this afternoon at the Cathedral da Sé here. “What is required, in a word, is a mission of evangelization capable of engaging all the vital energies in this immense flock.” About 140 million Brazilians regard themselves as Catholics — the largest Roman Catholic population in the world. But many of them do not attend mass regularly, and the share of the population that identifies itself as Roman Catholic has contracted in less than a generation from nearly 90 percent to about two-thirds, thanks to the Protestant advance. The pope made his appeal in his characteristic way: He emphasized competing with the Pentecostal denominations first by meeting people’s spiritual needs with a back-to-basics Catholicism centered on preaching Christ’s message. He did not stint on providing for people’s social and material needs, but suggested, as he has in the past, that the spiritual dimension is more important, and the true work of the church. Even so, he took note of the dire circumstances in which millions of Latin Americans are mired, and signaled his agreement with what the church here calls a preferential option for the poor. When the people missionaries encounter “are living in poverty,” he said, “it is necessary to help them, as the first Christian communities did, by practicing solidarity and making them feel truly loved.” Within the larger strategy of competing with Protestant denominations, the canonization of Friar Antonio Galvão this morning was a way of marking traditional Catholic territory, and differentiating the church from its rivals. Daily life in Brazil is permeated by the presence of saints, from the names of neighborhoods, businesses and cities — including this one — to the plaster statues found in corner bars and the posters and paintings hung on the walls of homes, both humble and grand. Fast-growing Pentecostal groups, however, strongly disapprove of the popular focus on saints, which they regard as a form of idolatry forbidden by the Bible. In the 1990s, one Pentecostal preacher who was prominent on television even smashed an image of the Virgin Mary to bits during one of his programs, shocking many Brazilians and drawing widespread repudiation. “We Brazilians love to venerate the saints, like St. Anthony and St. George, but until now they’ve all been foreigners,” said Bernardo Leite Alves, a 39-year-old bus driver who said he often drives with an image of St. Sebastian on his windshield. As for Friar Antonio Galvão, he said: “This is a saint who is really, truly ours, born and bred here, who looks like us and has a name like ours.” Friar Antonio de Sant’Anna Galvão was born in 1739 about 100 miles from here, in Guaratinguetá, which Benedict will visit Saturday, and he died here in São Paulo 83 years later. During his lifetime, the city council here designated him a “man of peace and charity,” and he also earned a reputation for defending the poor, which stimulated both popular pilgrimages to his tomb and the use of “Frei Galvão’s pills,” which are said by his devotees to have healing powers. “The significance of Frei Galvão’s example lies in his willingness to be of service to the people whenever he was asked,” Benedict said today. “He was renowned as a counselor, he was a bringer of peace to souls and families and a dispenser of charity, especially toward the poor and the sick. He was greatly sought out as a confessor, because he was zealous, wise and prudent.” , who visited Brazil four times, engaged in a conscious strategy of building grass-roots fidelity to the church by naming hundreds of new saints worldwide. Despite his presence in Brazil to canonize Friar Galvão, Benedict himself has been more conservative, and officials say he will name far fewer saints. At the canonization mass this morning, the faithful were exuberant, waving banners with Frei Galvão’s image and chanting both his name and that of the pope. The church and the nation’s leading television network estimated that one million or more people attended the service, held at an airfield in a working-class area, but the police put the number closer to 800,000. “It is important that the pope be here, so that we can give him an injection of Brazilian joy and happiness,” said Rene Vilela, a 40-year-old bank clerk who was part of a group of 70 that flew here from Salvador, 1,200 miles away, to see the pontiff. “He’s a German, a bit cold and reserved, and so he can benefit from some of our oxygen.” Yet for all the affection they demonstrated, it was also clear that some in the crowd disagreed with the pope on fundamental issues. His condemnation of and contraception and his call for chastity at a meeting with young people on Thursday seemed particularly to go against the grain, in a country proud of its tolerance but ashamed of its poverty. “I’ve been in one-room houses in the slums where parents are trying to raise a dozen kids, and so I think his position on abortion is much too rigid,” said Maria Salete Simões, a 70-year-old retired school teacher. “This is a complicated, controversial subject that needs to be debated more, and the church’s position is just that — the church’s, and not that of society.” Romana Coutinho, a 25-year-old student, said she was pleased by the canonization of a Brazilian saint, but that it would not affect her attitude towards mass, which she said she attends “only sporadically.” She said that she had tried Pentecostal churches, but objected to their constant calls for donations, and wanted the Roman Catholic church to be more flexible on questions of both doctrine and liturgy. “God is joy, so the worship service should be more uplifting and animated,” she said. “If Jesus were alive today, I can’t imagine that he would espouse all of the things that are attributed to him, because the world has changed. The church needs to be more up to date.” More Articles in International &#x00bb; Start your 14-day free trial of TimesSelect now. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Pope Opens Trip With Remarks Against Abortion Brazil Greets Pope but Questions His Perspective As Pope Heads to Brazil, a Rival Theology Persists More Articles in International &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/us/11cnd-virginia.html?ex=1336536000&en=6dadbfd48442b036&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Mixed Mood on Campus at Va. Tech Graduation - New York Times Mixed Mood on Campus at Va. Tech Graduation A Virginia Tech student paying his respects at a memorial to the shooting victims before the start of commencement exercises. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 BLACKSBURG, Va., May 11 — Commencement at the was supposed to be a moment for parents to watch their children take a symbolic step. From a youthful safe haven, students would graduate into a larger and less predictable world. Skip to next paragraph Melanie Blanding for The New York Times A memorial to the victims of the shootings at Virginia Tech. But that harsh unpredictability came to the Virginia Tech campus in April with a deadly shooting rampage. And today, as thousands of parents arrived for graduation ceremonies, it was hard to tell the tears of joy from those of sadness. Students shared giddy hugs and tossed their tassels. In quieter moments, they also spoke of feelings of guilt and the uncomfortable celebrity of having survived. Faculty members regaled proud parents with classroom anecdotes. They also said they still struggled to find the right words to capture the conflicting mix of emotions. “This is supposed to be a celebration,” said Bryan Cloyd, who is both a parent of one the slain students and a professor on campus. Mr. Cloyd carried a distinct trepidation into the ceremonies, but overcame an initial reluctance to join the festivities. He will receive an honorary degree for his 18-year-old daughter, Austin, in hopes of helping remove the “emotional cloud” still looming over campus, he said. “We’re also looking for any healing we can get,” he added. Caroline Merrey, a senior, said she hoped that graduation and the promise of summer would lessen her haunting sense of guilt. “There are lots of days when I think I should have gone back and done something,” said Ms. Merrey, who leapt from a classroom window while her professor, , blocked the door, temporarily keeping the gunman at bay. “I’m lucky that I didn’t get shot and I’m still here. But I feel like what I did was a cheap way out.” Professor Librescu died of gunshot wounds. Ms. Merry said she plans to move in the coming weeks to Chicago, where some of her relatives live, and to start looking there for a job in engineering. Distance and a recent haircut may help restore an anonymity and normalcy that was removed by the shootings, she added. “Graduation is hard enough, because you don’t know what happens next,” she said. “It’s even harder with these emotions, all the media, and the reminders everywhere of what happened.” Karan Grewal, a former suitemate of the gunman, , said his mind drifts to questions he would rather avoid. “I think about why he didn’t start with us back at the suite, and why he went to the other dorm instead,” Mr. Grewal said. “But my philosophy has been that if I let those thoughts take over, then Cho won. So, I focus on enjoying graduation and moving forward.” Looking toward Saturday, when individual departments will hold their own ceremonies, Nikki Giovanni, a poet and English Department professor, said it was a difficult time to be a public speaker. “You have this elephant in the room, and you don’t know how to tame it,” said Ms. Giovanni, who was asked by others on the faculty to speak at her departmental ceremony. “You can’t dwell on what happened, but you can’t overlook it either.” Still, she said, her job was easier than others. She would not need to write much new material, because her department asked her to deliver her poem, “We are Virginia Tech,” again. She presented that poem during a convocation in the days after the shooting, and it became an emotional turning point during that ceremony, bringing a somber crowd to its feet in clapping and chanting. Saturday’s commencement address will be the last time she reads the poem publicly, she said, because she does not want it to become the defining voice of the tragedy. More than with sorrow, Dr. Ishwar K. Puri said he finished the year with an overwhelming sense of awe at the generosity of strangers. Dr. Puri, the chairman of the Department of Engineering Science and Mechanics, said that when the police sealed off Norris Hall, the site of most of the shooting, as a crime scene, his 24 faculty members, 80 doctoral students and 25 master’s students were left blocked from their laboratories. Their research ground to a halt; so did their ability to apply for jobs or for research grants. But offers to help began arriving almost immediately, he said. The Technical University of Delft in the Netherlands invited his whole faculty to work in its laboratories on paid sabbaticals. Dell, the computer manufacturer, donated 30 laptop and 20 desktop computers to replace those left stranded in the inaccessible laboratories. University opened their laboratories for internships. “Really, this has turned into a story of hope, not despair,” he said. He added, however, that as he looked toward the summer, he had to admit there was a small sense of dread, too. As the spirit of Hokie pride subsides on campus with the departure of students and faculty, Dr. Puri said he was not looking forward to facing a painful task he has put off for weeks: the writing of a job announcement to seek replacements for the two professors in his department who were killed. “Doing that strikes you with the finality of it all,” he said. “How, really, do you replace people who were colleagues, friends, individuals? You can’t.” More Articles in National &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. ON EDUCATION; Deciding When Student Writing Crosses the Line Privacy Laws Slow Efforts To Widen Gun-Buyer Data Torn by University Shootings, Virginia Town Turns Inward to Mend Virginia Ends A Loophole In Gun Laws Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University More Articles in National &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/index.html	The New York Times - Breaking News, World News & Multimedia Friday, May 11, 2007 NYT Archive Since 1981 On Carrier in Gulf, Cheney Warns Iran By DAVID E. SANGER The vice president warned that the U.S. was prepared to use its naval power to keep Tehran from disrupting oil shipments or gaining nuclear weapons. Back Story With The Times's David Sanger ( U.S. Backs Off Plan to Tighten Limits on Guantánamo Lawyers Justice Department lawyers said they were no longer asking an appeals court in Washington to limit the lawyers to a total of three visits with detainees. Today's column looks at the art of political damage control. The Caucus Blog » Romney Elaborates on Evolution Mitt Romney's position could put him at odds with some conservative Christians. Times Topics: Mitt Romney Michael Stravato for The New York Times Giuliani Defends Stance on Abortion By MARC SANTORA and MARIA NEWMAN Rudolph W. Giuliani said that he favors abortion rights, certain restrictions on gun ownership and gay rights. More From The Caucus Mixed Mood on Campus at Va. Tech Graduation Today, as parents arrived for graduation ceremonies, it was hard to tell the tears of joy from those of sadness. Blair Endorses Gordon Brown as His Successor Pope Canonizes Brazil’s First Native-Born Saint Wildfire Threatens a California Resort Island Bats: A Cabrera by Any Other Name The Caucus: Romney Elaborates on Evolution The Lede: The Day the Union Jack Got Beat Back The Lede: A Prominent Iraqi Blogger Flees Puffing Away That PG Rating Do you think movies that contain smoking deserve a more restrictive rating? Armless, One - Legged Driver Leads Chase Va. Tech Graduations Honor Slain Victims Mysterious Object Probably Space Junk Thomson Selling Assets to Private Group "28 Weeks Later" is smart, both in its ideas and techniques, writes A. O. Scott. Don’t Mess With Grandma “Georgia Rule” takes its plot in surprising directions, writes A. O. Scott. Chasing an Old Flame The best jokes in “The Ex” leave scratches, writes Stephen Holden. Brooks: Blair and Iraq Editorial: Reality in Iraq What You Get for ...$1.6 Million Homes on the market in Keswick, Va., Scottsdale, Ariz., and San Luis Obispo, Calif. Slide Show: $1.6 Million Homes More in Real Estate Mortgage News and Rates America's Best Private Club Membership Place a Classified Ad » Certified? Yes. Satisfied? Not Always. Some car buyers find that certification doesn’t protect them. Submit photos and comment on other readers' cars. Also, keep track of events Go to Photo Gallery Place a Classified Ad » Post a job online More in Job Market Browse jobs by industry Browse jobs by location What to Do About Wanderlust Yes, there are sensible ways to look into a new career while keeping your old one. Place a Classified Ad » Find a Classifieds listing Home & Garden Directory Small Inns & Lodges Post a classifieds ad online "New Yorks Premier Cleaning Service specializes in cleaning services for houses, apts. and ..."...... Place a Classified Ad » SAVE 50% ON HOME DELIVERY Have The New York Times waiting for you, as little as $3.15 a week. Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense Be Prepared. Fight ID Theft. Equifax Credit Watch™. Equifax.com Earn 5.05% APY - Open a Complete Savings Acct from E*TRADE Bank Photos, fine art, books and more. Pressed by Police, Even Innocent Confess in Japan President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Marine Says His Staff Misled Him on Killings Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard 6 Charged in Fort Dix Plot Held Without Bail New Mayor but Familiar Issues on Dallas’s Horizon Bush and Democrats in Accord on Labor Rights in Trade Deals Romney Works to Put Skeptics’ Doubts to Rest President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Awaiting Rock-Eating Beast, L.I.R.R. Tunnel Is Poised to Finish Trip to Grand Central National Guard to Patrol PATH Stations A Slow, Steady Approach to Governing in Corzine’s First Week Back Purdue Will Reinvestigate Its Professor Who Claimed Desktop Fusion State Closes Coal-Fired Plant That Failed to Limit Emissions A Nuclear Reactor Reborn Electric Pulses, Instead of Shocks, Can Help Heart Patients Passage of Drug Safety Bill Was Common Goal for Two Very Different Senators F.D.A. Panel Seeks Limits on Cancer Patient Drugs Spellings Rejects Criticism on Student Loan Scandal Purdue Will Reinvestigate Its Professor Who Claimed Desktop Fusion House Passes Ban on Gifts From Student Lenders Away: Restoring an Old House and Putting Down Deeper Roots A Ski Community Where There’s No Such Thing as Too Much Havens | St. Petersburg Fla.: A Neighborhood of Colonials and Palm Trees Bush and Democrats in Accord on Trade Deals Thomson to Sell Educational Group Prices Are Stable Except for Gasoline Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds At Vonage, Sales Increase as Litigation Clouds Future Out of Chaos, Order. Or So Google Says. Feliciano Uses Guile to Aid the Mets Brewers Off to a Fast Start Nadal Matches McEnroe's Surface Streak In the Big House ... Just Visiting 36 Hours in St. Petersburg, Russia Weekend With the Kids: In Monterey, Where Sea Lions and Children Are at Play Dining & Wine &#x00bb; The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Op-Ed Contributor: Less Green at the Farmers’ Market Critic’s Notebook: In Los Angeles, the Accidental Pizza Maker Home & Garden &#x00bb; Aspiring to the Throne At Home With Charlie White: Order and Chaos in a Single Heartbeat In the Garden: It Takes a Hammer to Grow This Salad Fashion & Style &#x00bb; Faster Fashion, Cheaper Chic It’s Her World, We’re Just Buying It The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Earnhardt Drops Team Built by His Father to Become a Free Agent Shareholders Give Ex-Chief the Blame for Ford Woes Editorial: Mr. Bush Alone Op-Ed Contributor: Give the Arab Peace Initiative a Chance To Raise a Down Syndrome Child (6 Letters) Music: Off the Beaten Beat Harlem’s Cultural Anchor in a Sea of Ideas Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Film: A Loving Look at a Cinematic Tough Guy: Gangster, Hit Man, Gunslinger Movie Review | 'Georgia Rule': Hey, California Girl, Don’t Mess With Grandma Theater Review | 'Memory': From Wales, Tales of Berlin Then and Bethlehem Now Theater Review | 'Couples': Blissful and Benighted: Dispatches From the War of the Sexes 'Animal, Vegetable, Miracle,' by Barbara Kingsolver: Because It’s Good for You, That’s Why 'Troublesome Young Men,' by Lynne Olson: In Churchill’s Rise to Power, a Rough Path of Rebellion Three Writers of Nonfiction Are Honored Week in Review &#x00bb; Nervous Energy: The (Not So) Eagerly Modern Saudi The In Crowd: Playing ‘Survivor’ in Washington Ideas & Trends: Rupert Murdoch, Once the Outsider The New Middle Ages: The Older-and-Wiser Hypothesis The New Middle Ages: A Longer, Better Life The New Middle Ages: Self-Nonmedication The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer About the NYT Co. Jobs at the NYT Co. Add New York Times headlines to your site Add New York Times RSS Feeds Get home delivery of The New York Times, as little as $3.15 a week. The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/us/11cnd-blaze.html?ex=1336536000&en=616db4de7e44ee94&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Wildfire Threatens a California Resort Island - New York Times Wildfire Threatens a California Resort Island Smoke rose over Avalon on Thursday. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 Firefighters struggled early today to prevent a wildfire from reaching homes on the edge of Santa Catalina Island’s main town, as residents and visitors fled the resort island off the Southern California coast. Skip to next paragraph The New York Times A wildfire approached Santa Catalina Island&#146;s main city, Avalon, on Thursday. People wait to be evacuated from the town of Avalon, Calif., as smoke from a wildfire rises in the background on Santa Catalina Island. At least 160 firefighters, aided by four water-dropping helicopters and three retardant-dropping air tankers, battled flames through most of Thursday. The helicopters flew into the night and were back in the air at dawn today. Dozens of fire engines from as far away as Fresno arrived through the night aboard giant military hovercraft from the Marine Corps base at Camp Pendleton. The high-speed hovercraft can carry 60 tons of cargo over land or water, and are often used by the military on humanitarian missions. The blaze broke out Thursday afternoon on the island, which is more than 20 miles off the coast. Flames threatened the city limits of Avalon, where hundreds of people lined up at the harbor Thursday night to board ferries back to the mainland. Many covered their faces with towels and bandanas as ashes fell around them. A few homes on the island were burned, but firefighters worked to protect other properties late into the night, said Steven Hoefs, the chief of the Avalon fire department. Some 1,200 homes were under voluntary or mandatory evacuation orders. “We’re hanging in for now,” Chief Hoefs said. The blaze, which began five miles east of the island’s airport, grew to cover 4,000 acres, feeding on dry brush and scrub as winds steadily blew throughout the day and into the night on Thursday. Winds later calmed and the air grew more humid, although the threat of fire remained. An orange inferno loomed behind the quaint crescent-shaped harbor, the landmark 1929 Catalina Casino, and the homes, restaurants and tiny hotels clinging to slopes above the Avalon waterfront. A commercial building and several warehouses burned, and 175 utility customers lost electricity when power poles caught on fire. Overnight, Blackhawk and Chinook helicopters were ferrying in firefighters, 32 at a time. Crews were being positioned at the city’s edge to protect homes. “We’re on defense mode for now,” Chief Hoefs said. In Avalon, authorities used a bullhorn to urge people to evacuate the city and head to the beach. Visitors to the island were directed to the historic Art Deco-style Casino building until it lost power, while residents were sent to another site along the harbor. The Catalina Express ferry service added several night departures of 400-passenger vessels from Avalon. Hundreds of residents and visitors boarded the ferries to reach the mainland. A family of eight said they had just enough time to pack some clothes and personal papers before fleeing. “I’m scared,” said Angelica Romero, 30, holding her 7-month-old daughter. “But what’s important is I have my children. The rest doesn’t matter.” At the mainland port of Long Beach, Kathy Troeger, a Santa Catalina resident, arrived by ferry with her three children and a friend’s daughter. Her husband, a fire captain, stayed behind to help fight the blaze. “It was like a nightmare when we left,” she said. “You couldn’t breathe, and ash was falling like snow.” An evacuation center was set up at Cabrillo High School, where about 85 people had checked in, according to the Red Cross. Santa Catalina has been left parched by the same lack of rainfall that has made the Southern California mainland particularly susceptible to wildfires, like the one in Griffith Park in Los Angeles earlier this week. Firefighters were still working there today to surround what remained of the fire, which briefly chased people from adjacent homes and threatened the park’s landmark observatory and its zoo. Los Angeles officials had expected the Griffith Park fire to be fully contained by Thursday, two days after it peaked, and no visible flames remained, but fire crews were still building containment lines around the fire’s perimeter late into the night. Only 2 inches of rain have fallen on Santa Catalina since January. The island is long and fairly narrow, covering a total of 76 square miles of land area, most of it owned and kept as a preserve by the Santa Catalina Island Conservancy. various wildlife. The populated areas are served by helicopters and ferry boats from Los Angeles, Long Beach and other mainland harbors. Avalon, the main town, has a year-round population of 3,200, but swells to more than 10,000 on weekends and in the summer, according to the Catalina Island Chamber of Commerce and Visitors Bureau. The Associated Press contributed to this report. More Articles in National &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. More Articles in National &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/world/middleeast/11cnd-cheney.html?ex=1336536000&en=e5527828a00da7bb&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	On Carrier in Gulf, Cheney Warns Iran - New York Times On Carrier in Gulf, Cheney Warns Iran Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 BRUSSELS, May 11 — Vice President used the deck of an American aircraft carrier just 150 miles off ’s coast as the backdrop today to warn the country that the United States was prepared to use its naval power to keep Tehran from disrupting off oil routes or “gaining nuclear weapons and dominating this region.” Skip to next paragraph Vice President Dick Cheney on board the USS John C. Stennis aircraft carrier in the Persian Gulf today. Back Story With The Times's David Sanger ( Little of what Mr. Cheney said in the cavernous hangar bay of the aircraft carrier U.S.S. John C. Stennis, one of two carriers whose strike groups are now in the Persian Gulf, was new. Each individual line had, in some form, been said before, at various points in the four-year-long nuclear standoff with Iran, and during the increasingly tense arguments over whether Iran is aiding the insurgents in Iraq. But Mr. Cheney stitched all of those warnings together, and the symbolism of sending the administration’s most famous hawk to deliver the speech so close to Iran’s coast was unmistakable. It also came just a week after Secretary of State talked briefly and inconclusively with Iran’s foreign minister, a step toward re-engagement with Iran that some in the administration have opposed. Mr. Cheney’s sharp warnings appeared to be part of a two-track administration campaign to push back at Iran, while leaving the door open to negotiations. It was almost exactly a year ago that the United States offered to negotiate with Iran as long as it first agreed to halt enriching uranium, a decision in which Mr. Cheney, participants said, was not a major player. Similarly, the speech today was not circulated broadly in the government before it was delivered, a senior American diplomat said. “He kind of runs by his own rules,” the official said. When President Bush ordered the two carriers into the Gulf late last year, senior administration officials said it was part of an effort to gain some negotiating leverage over the Iranians. At about the same time, American military personnel began capturing some Iranians in Iraq, and some of them are still held there. American officials have also been pressing Europeans banks and companies to avoid doing business with Tehran, in an effort to make it more difficult for the country to recycle its oil profits. Oil seemed to be on Mr. Cheney’s mind today, when he told an audience of 3,500 to 4,000 American service members on the Stennis that Iran would not be permitted to choke off oil shipments through the waters of the region. “With two carrier strike groups in the Gulf, we’re sending clear messages to friends and adversaries alike,” he said. “We’ll keep the sea lanes open. We’ll stand with our friends in opposing extremism and strategic threats. We’ll disrupt attacks on our own forces. We’ll continue bringing relief to those who suffer, and delivering justice to the enemies of freedom. And we’ll stand with others to prevent Iran from gaining nuclear weapons and dominating this region.” Some experts on Iran have questioned whether the threats that administration officials occasionally deliver to Iran aid or undercut the diplomacy with the country. “The problem with the two-track policy is that the first track — coercion, sanctions, naval deployments — can undercut the results on the second track,” said Ray Takeyh, an Iran scholar at the Council of Foreign Relations and the author of “Hidden Iran: Paradox and Power in the Islamic Republic” (Henry Holt, 2006). “There are some in Tehran who will look at Cheney on that carrier and say that everything Rice is offering is not real. What’s real, to their mind, are the coercive policies Cheney is describing. “This is a case where we are trying to get through negotiations what, so far, we couldn’t get through coercion.” The symbols of coercion were part of the backdrop on the Stennis: Mr. Cheney spoke in front of five F-18 Super Hornet warplanes. But mindful of the lasting imagery of President Bush on another carrier a little more than four years ago, there were no signs proclaiming success, much less “Mission Accomplished.” Instead, Mr. Cheney repeated his arguments about the danger of early withdrawal from Iraq. “I want you to know that the American people will not support a policy of retreat,” Mr. Cheney said. “We want to complete the mission, we want to get it done right, and then we want to return home with honor.” Mr. Cheney is on a weeklong visit to the Middle East, and made Iraq his first stop on Wednesday and Thursday. He spoke to American troops stationed near ’s birthplace, Tikrit, telling them in somber tones that they still had a tough fight ahead of them. His assessment stood in stark contrast to the one he made two years ago, when he declared in an interview with CNN that the insurgency in Iraq was in its “last throes.” The United States remains at odds with Iran over its uranium-enrichment program, which Iran says is for peaceful nuclear energy, but which America and its Western allies say is intended instead to produce atomic weapons. Administration officials have also said that weapons are being smuggled into Iraq from Iran and that insurgents may be getting training in bomb-making and bomb-placing techniques in Iran. The Iranian government denies sponsoring or encouraging terrorism. Mr. Cheney visited the U.S.S. John C. Stennis before, in March 2002, at a time when he was trying to build support for the invasion of Iraq. He also visited Abu Dhabi in the United Arab Emirates, where the president of Iran, , is expected to arrive in the next few days. Mr. Cheney’s tour is also scheduled to include visits to Saudi Arabia and Jordan. Alissa J. Rubin contributed reporting for this article from Baghdad, and Graham Bowley contributed from New York. More Articles in International &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Senators Question Halliburton Executive About Dealings in Iran No Diplomatic Change After Britons' Release THE NATION: Correspondence; Reporters and Sources Slowed Their Dance to Show the Steps DIPLOMATIC MEMO; U.S. and Iran May Steal the Show at Iraq's Security Meeting More Articles in International &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/world/americas/11cnd-pope.html	Pope Canonizes Brazil&#8217;s First Native-Born Saint - New York Times Pope Canonizes Brazil’s First Native-Born Saint Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 , May 11 — After canonizing Brazil’s first native-born saint and receiving a bracing dose of Brazilian-style religious fervor at an outdoor mass here today, called for more forceful evangelization efforts throughout Latin America to counter growing conversions to Pentecostal Protestant groups. Skip to next paragraph Orlando Kissner/Agence France-Presse - Getty Images Pope Benedict XVI celebrating Mass in S&#227;o Paulo today. Pope Addresses Brazil’s Youth and Meets With the President The faithful carrying images of Pope Benedict XVI and Friar Galvao at the canonization ceremony today in Sao Paulo, Brazil, today. Pope Benedict XVI today in Sao Paulo, Brazil. “No effort should be spared in seeking out those Catholics who have fallen away and those who know little or nothing of Jesus Christ,” he told Brazilian bishops this afternoon at the Cathedral da Sé here. “What is required, in a word, is a mission of evangelization capable of engaging all the vital energies in this immense flock.” About 140 million Brazilians regard themselves as Catholics — the largest Roman Catholic population in the world. But many of them do not attend mass regularly, and the share of the population that identifies itself as Roman Catholic has contracted in less than a generation from nearly 90 percent to about two-thirds, thanks to the Protestant advance. The pope made his appeal in his characteristic way: He emphasized competing with the Pentecostal denominations first by meeting people’s spiritual needs with a back-to-basics Catholicism centered on preaching Christ’s message. He did not stint on providing for people’s social and material needs, but suggested, as he has in the past, that the spiritual dimension is more important, and the true work of the church. Even so, he took note of the dire circumstances in which millions of Latin Americans are mired, and signaled his agreement with what the church here calls a preferential option for the poor. When the people missionaries encounter “are living in poverty,” he said, “it is necessary to help them, as the first Christian communities did, by practicing solidarity and making them feel truly loved.” Within the larger strategy of competing with Protestant denominations, the canonization of Friar Antonio Galvão this morning was a way of marking traditional Catholic territory, and differentiating the church from its rivals. Daily life in Brazil is permeated by the presence of saints, from the names of neighborhoods, businesses and cities — including this one — to the plaster statues found in corner bars and the posters and paintings hung on the walls of homes, both humble and grand. Fast-growing Pentecostal groups, however, strongly disapprove of the popular focus on saints, which they regard as a form of idolatry forbidden by the Bible. In the 1990s, one Pentecostal preacher who was prominent on television even smashed an image of the Virgin Mary to bits during one of his programs, shocking many Brazilians and drawing widespread repudiation. “We Brazilians love to venerate the saints, like St. Anthony and St. George, but until now they’ve all been foreigners,” said Bernardo Leite Alves, a 39-year-old bus driver who said he often drives with an image of St. Sebastian on his windshield. As for Friar Antonio Galvão, he said: “This is a saint who is really, truly ours, born and bred here, who looks like us and has a name like ours.” Friar Antonio de Sant’Anna Galvão was born in 1739 about 100 miles from here, in Guaratinguetá, which Benedict will visit Saturday, and he died here in São Paulo 83 years later. During his lifetime, the city council here designated him a “man of peace and charity,” and he also earned a reputation for defending the poor, which stimulated both popular pilgrimages to his tomb and the use of “Frei Galvão’s pills,” which are said by his devotees to have healing powers. “The significance of Frei Galvão’s example lies in his willingness to be of service to the people whenever he was asked,” Benedict said today. “He was renowned as a counselor, he was a bringer of peace to souls and families and a dispenser of charity, especially toward the poor and the sick. He was greatly sought out as a confessor, because he was zealous, wise and prudent.” , who visited Brazil four times, engaged in a conscious strategy of building grass-roots fidelity to the church by naming hundreds of new saints worldwide. Despite his presence in Brazil to canonize Friar Galvão, Benedict himself has been more conservative, and officials say he will name far fewer saints. At the canonization mass this morning, the faithful were exuberant, waving banners with Frei Galvão’s image and chanting both his name and that of the pope. The church and the nation’s leading television network estimated that one million or more people attended the service, held at an airfield in a working-class area, but the police put the number closer to 800,000. “It is important that the pope be here, so that we can give him an injection of Brazilian joy and happiness,” said Rene Vilela, a 40-year-old bank clerk who was part of a group of 70 that flew here from Salvador, 1,200 miles away, to see the pontiff. “He’s a German, a bit cold and reserved, and so he can benefit from some of our oxygen.” Yet for all the affection they demonstrated, it was also clear that some in the crowd disagreed with the pope on fundamental issues. His condemnation of and contraception and his call for chastity at a meeting with young people on Thursday seemed particularly to go against the grain, in a country proud of its tolerance but ashamed of its poverty. “I’ve been in one-room houses in the slums where parents are trying to raise a dozen kids, and so I think his position on abortion is much too rigid,” said Maria Salete Simões, a 70-year-old retired school teacher. “This is a complicated, controversial subject that needs to be debated more, and the church’s position is just that — the church’s, and not that of society.” Romana Coutinho, a 25-year-old student, said she was pleased by the canonization of a Brazilian saint, but that it would not affect her attitude towards mass, which she said she attends “only sporadically.” She said that she had tried Pentecostal churches, but objected to their constant calls for donations, and wanted the Roman Catholic church to be more flexible on questions of both doctrine and liturgy. “God is joy, so the worship service should be more uplifting and animated,” she said. “If Jesus were alive today, I can’t imagine that he would espouse all of the things that are attributed to him, because the world has changed. The church needs to be more up to date.” More Articles in International &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Pope Opens Trip With Remarks Against Abortion Brazil Greets Pope but Questions His Perspective As Pope Heads to Brazil, a Rival Theology Persists More Articles in International &#x00bb; A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/washington/11cnd-giuliani.html	In Houston, Giuliani Defends Abortion Stance - New York Times In Houston, Giuliani Defends Abortion Stance Michael Stravato for The New York Times Rudolph W. Giuliani delivered his speech outlining his social views to a conservative audience at Houston Baptist College. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 HOUSTON, May 11 – offered a direct challenge to orthodoxy on Friday, asserting that his support for rights, gun control and gay rights should not disqualify him from winning the party’s presidential nomination and that Republicans need to be tolerant of dissenting views on those issues if they want to hold the White House. Skip to next paragraph On the Record: The G.O.P., Abortion and 2008 Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights The latest political news from around the nation. In a forceful summation of the substantive and political case for his candidacy, delivered to a conservative audience at Houston Baptist College, Mr. Giuliani, the former mayor of New York, acknowledged that his views were out of line with some Republican primary voters. But Mr. Giuliani argued that the presidential election should not turn on social issues, but on which party would better protect the nation from terrorism. Mr. Giuliani suggested that his own record as mayor of New York – leading the city after the attacks of Sept. 11 and overseeing a dramatic decline in violent crime during his eight years in Gracie Mansion – made him the most electable of the Republican candidates, no matter his stand on issues like abortion. During last week’s debate among Republicans vying for their party’s 2008 presidential nomination, the former New York City mayor was criticized for his halting and apparently contradictory responses to questions about his views on abortion rights. Critics have said that he is trying to run from a record that is much more liberal than the views of the Republican Party’s core voters on the issue. The speech by Mr. Giuliani reflected a critical strategic decision – other campaigns used the word gamble – as he seeks to overcome what has been one of the fundamental obstacles to winning the nomination: his long history, as a Northeast Republican in a party increasingly dominated by southern and midwestern conservatives, of breaking with much of the party’s base on issues that are of intense importance to them. Mr. Giuliani told his audience today that he knew that some voters might disagree with him. But he urged the party to become a “big tent” that could include people with a range of views on the subject. At the same time, he said he owed it to them to be forthright about his own views. “I should honestly tell you what I believe,” Mr. Giuliani said. “I should honestly tell you the things that I can evolve on, and the things that I can’t, and then you should decide.” He said, as he has before, that he personally opposed abortion but believed in a woman’s right to make her own decisions; that he believes in the right to bear arms, but that as mayor of New York, he favored certain aspects of gun control; and that while he opposes gay marriage, he supports protecting gay rights, something he said he did as mayor. On abortion, he said he was open to seeking ways to limit the procedure, but he was not open to limiting the right to have it. “In a country like ours, where people of good faith, people who are equally decent and equally moral and equally religious, where they come to different conclusions about this, about something so very, very personal, I think you have to respect their viewpoint,” he said. “I would grant women the right to make that choice.” He said that while his views might put him at odds with many in his own party, he said he did not believe many of them would base their votes on a single issue. He asked the crowd to weigh other factors too, including “fighting terrorism effectively, being on offense against terror, having a growth economy, having a fiscal conservative.” Mr. Giuliani’s aides say their polling has found a relatively small number of voters who would base their vote solely on abortion. They have also said that they are counting on the impression many voters seem to have of Mr. Giuliani as a tough leader who helped turn around New York City in the 1990s, and carried it through the attacks of Sept. 11. Marc Santora reported from Houston, and Maria Newman from New York. More Articles in Washington &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Yankee Rings Become Issue for Giuliani Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights ON THE RECORD; The G.O.P., Abortion and 2008 Abortion Rises Anew for Giuliani Presidential Election of 2008 More Articles in Washington &#x00bb; A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Herr Gerbhardt Roller Skating Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/index.html?partner=rssnyt	The New York Times - Breaking News, World News & Multimedia Friday, May 11, 2007 NYT Archive Since 1981 On Carrier in Gulf, Cheney Warns Iran By DAVID E. SANGER The vice president warned that the U.S. was prepared to use its naval power to keep Tehran from disrupting oil shipments or gaining nuclear weapons. Back Story With The Times's David Sanger ( U.S. Backs Off Plan to Tighten Limits on Guantánamo Lawyers Justice Department lawyers said they were no longer asking an appeals court in Washington to limit the lawyers to a total of three visits with detainees. Today's column looks at the art of political damage control. The Caucus Blog » Romney Elaborates on Evolution Mitt Romney's position could put him at odds with some conservative Christians. Times Topics: Mitt Romney Michael Stravato for The New York Times Giuliani Defends Stance on Abortion By MARC SANTORA and MARIA NEWMAN Rudolph W. Giuliani said that he favors abortion rights, certain restrictions on gun ownership and gay rights. More From The Caucus Mixed Mood on Campus at Va. Tech Graduation Today, as parents arrived for graduation ceremonies, it was hard to tell the tears of joy from those of sadness. Blair Endorses Gordon Brown as His Successor Pope Canonizes Brazil’s First Native-Born Saint Wildfire Threatens a California Resort Island Bats: A Cabrera by Any Other Name The Caucus: Romney Elaborates on Evolution The Lede: The Day the Union Jack Got Beat Back The Lede: A Prominent Iraqi Blogger Flees Puffing Away That PG Rating Do you think movies that contain smoking deserve a more restrictive rating? Armless, One - Legged Driver Leads Chase Va. Tech Graduations Honor Slain Victims Mysterious Object Probably Space Junk Thomson Selling Assets to Private Group "28 Weeks Later" is smart, both in its ideas and techniques, writes A. O. Scott. Don’t Mess With Grandma “Georgia Rule” takes its plot in surprising directions, writes A. O. Scott. Chasing an Old Flame The best jokes in “The Ex” leave scratches, writes Stephen Holden. Brooks: Blair and Iraq Editorial: Reality in Iraq What You Get for ...$1.6 Million Homes on the market in Keswick, Va., Scottsdale, Ariz., and San Luis Obispo, Calif. Slide Show: $1.6 Million Homes More in Real Estate Mortgage News and Rates High luxury, LEED-certified green homes Place a Classified Ad » Certified? Yes. Satisfied? Not Always. Some car buyers find that certification doesn’t protect them. Submit photos and comment on other readers' cars. Also, keep track of events Go to Photo Gallery Place a Classified Ad » Post a job online More in Job Market Browse jobs by industry Browse jobs by location What to Do About Wanderlust Yes, there are sensible ways to look into a new career while keeping your old one. Place a Classified Ad » Find a Classifieds listing Home & Garden Directory Small Inns & Lodges Post a classifieds ad online GOLDBERG HOLDINGS SEEKS CAPITAL FOR FORECLOSURE ACQUISITIONS IN VEGAS Goldberg Holdings is......... Place a Classified Ad » SAVE 50% ON HOME DELIVERY Have The New York Times waiting for you, as little as $3.15 a week. Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense Earn 5.05% APY - Open a Complete Savings Acct from E*TRADE Bank Be Prepared. Fight ID Theft. Equifax Credit Watch™. Equifax.com Photos, fine art, books and more. Pressed by Police, Even Innocent Confess in Japan President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Marine Says His Staff Misled Him on Killings Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard 6 Charged in Fort Dix Plot Held Without Bail New Mayor but Familiar Issues on Dallas’s Horizon Bush and Democrats in Accord on Labor Rights in Trade Deals Romney Works to Put Skeptics’ Doubts to Rest President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Awaiting Rock-Eating Beast, L.I.R.R. Tunnel Is Poised to Finish Trip to Grand Central National Guard to Patrol PATH Stations A Slow, Steady Approach to Governing in Corzine’s First Week Back Purdue Will Reinvestigate Its Professor Who Claimed Desktop Fusion State Closes Coal-Fired Plant That Failed to Limit Emissions A Nuclear Reactor Reborn Electric Pulses, Instead of Shocks, Can Help Heart Patients Passage of Drug Safety Bill Was Common Goal for Two Very Different Senators F.D.A. Panel Seeks Limits on Cancer Patient Drugs Spellings Rejects Criticism on Student Loan Scandal Purdue Will Reinvestigate Its Professor Who Claimed Desktop Fusion House Passes Ban on Gifts From Student Lenders Away: Restoring an Old House and Putting Down Deeper Roots A Ski Community Where There’s No Such Thing as Too Much Havens | St. Petersburg Fla.: A Neighborhood of Colonials and Palm Trees Bush and Democrats in Accord on Trade Deals Thomson to Sell Educational Group Prices Are Stable Except for Gasoline Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds At Vonage, Sales Increase as Litigation Clouds Future Out of Chaos, Order. Or So Google Says. Feliciano Uses Guile to Aid the Mets Brewers Off to a Fast Start Nadal Matches McEnroe's Surface Streak In the Big House ... Just Visiting 36 Hours in St. Petersburg, Russia Weekend With the Kids: In Monterey, Where Sea Lions and Children Are at Play Dining & Wine &#x00bb; The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Op-Ed Contributor: Less Green at the Farmers’ Market Critic’s Notebook: In Los Angeles, the Accidental Pizza Maker Home & Garden &#x00bb; Aspiring to the Throne At Home With Charlie White: Order and Chaos in a Single Heartbeat In the Garden: It Takes a Hammer to Grow This Salad Fashion & Style &#x00bb; Faster Fashion, Cheaper Chic It’s Her World, We’re Just Buying It The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Earnhardt Drops Team Built by His Father to Become a Free Agent Shareholders Give Ex-Chief the Blame for Ford Woes Editorial: Mr. Bush Alone Op-Ed Contributor: Give the Arab Peace Initiative a Chance To Raise a Down Syndrome Child (6 Letters) Music: Off the Beaten Beat Harlem’s Cultural Anchor in a Sea of Ideas Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Film: A Loving Look at a Cinematic Tough Guy: Gangster, Hit Man, Gunslinger Movie Review | 'Georgia Rule': Hey, California Girl, Don’t Mess With Grandma Theater Review | 'Memory': From Wales, Tales of Berlin Then and Bethlehem Now Theater Review | 'Couples': Blissful and Benighted: Dispatches From the War of the Sexes 'Animal, Vegetable, Miracle,' by Barbara Kingsolver: Because It’s Good for You, That’s Why 'Troublesome Young Men,' by Lynne Olson: In Churchill’s Rise to Power, a Rough Path of Rebellion Three Writers of Nonfiction Are Honored Week in Review &#x00bb; Nervous Energy: The (Not So) Eagerly Modern Saudi The In Crowd: Playing ‘Survivor’ in Washington Ideas & Trends: Rupert Murdoch, Once the Outsider The New Middle Ages: The Older-and-Wiser Hypothesis The New Middle Ages: A Longer, Better Life The New Middle Ages: Self-Nonmedication The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer About the NYT Co. Jobs at the NYT Co. Add New York Times headlines to your site Add New York Times RSS Feeds Get home delivery of The New York Times, as little as $3.15 a week. The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/washington/11cnd-giuliani.html?ex=1336536000&en=5c3f80516c1cd167&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	In Houston, Giuliani Defends Abortion Stance - New York Times In Houston, Giuliani Defends Abortion Stance Michael Stravato for The New York Times Rudolph W. Giuliani delivered his speech outlining his social views to a conservative audience at Houston Baptist College. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 HOUSTON, May 11 – offered a direct challenge to orthodoxy on Friday, asserting that his support for rights, gun control and gay rights should not disqualify him from winning the party’s presidential nomination and that Republicans need to be tolerant of dissenting views on those issues if they want to hold the White House. Skip to next paragraph On the Record: The G.O.P., Abortion and 2008 Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights The latest political news from around the nation. In a forceful summation of the substantive and political case for his candidacy, delivered to a conservative audience at Houston Baptist College, Mr. Giuliani, the former mayor of New York, acknowledged that his views were out of line with some Republican primary voters. But Mr. Giuliani argued that the presidential election should not turn on social issues, but on which party would better protect the nation from terrorism. Mr. Giuliani suggested that his own record as mayor of New York – leading the city after the attacks of Sept. 11 and overseeing a dramatic decline in violent crime during his eight years in Gracie Mansion – made him the most electable of the Republican candidates, no matter his stand on issues like abortion. During last week’s debate among Republicans vying for their party’s 2008 presidential nomination, the former New York City mayor was criticized for his halting and apparently contradictory responses to questions about his views on abortion rights. Critics have said that he is trying to run from a record that is much more liberal than the views of the Republican Party’s core voters on the issue. The speech by Mr. Giuliani reflected a critical strategic decision – other campaigns used the word gamble – as he seeks to overcome what has been one of the fundamental obstacles to winning the nomination: his long history, as a Northeast Republican in a party increasingly dominated by southern and midwestern conservatives, of breaking with much of the party’s base on issues that are of intense importance to them. Mr. Giuliani told his audience today that he knew that some voters might disagree with him. But he urged the party to become a “big tent” that could include people with a range of views on the subject. At the same time, he said he owed it to them to be forthright about his own views. “I should honestly tell you what I believe,” Mr. Giuliani said. “I should honestly tell you the things that I can evolve on, and the things that I can’t, and then you should decide.” He said, as he has before, that he personally opposed abortion but believed in a woman’s right to make her own decisions; that he believes in the right to bear arms, but that as mayor of New York, he favored certain aspects of gun control; and that while he opposes gay marriage, he supports protecting gay rights, something he said he did as mayor. On abortion, he said he was open to seeking ways to limit the procedure, but he was not open to limiting the right to have it. “In a country like ours, where people of good faith, people who are equally decent and equally moral and equally religious, where they come to different conclusions about this, about something so very, very personal, I think you have to respect their viewpoint,” he said. “I would grant women the right to make that choice.” He said that while his views might put him at odds with many in his own party, he said he did not believe many of them would base their votes on a single issue. He asked the crowd to weigh other factors too, including “fighting terrorism effectively, being on offense against terror, having a growth economy, having a fiscal conservative.” Mr. Giuliani’s aides say their polling has found a relatively small number of voters who would base their vote solely on abortion. They have also said that they are counting on the impression many voters seem to have of Mr. Giuliani as a tough leader who helped turn around New York City in the 1990s, and carried it through the attacks of Sept. 11. Marc Santora reported from Houston, and Maria Newman from New York. More Articles in Washington &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Yankee Rings Become Issue for Giuliani Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights ON THE RECORD; The G.O.P., Abortion and 2008 Abortion Rises Anew for Giuliani Presidential Election of 2008 More Articles in Washington &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/world/middleeast/11cnd-cheney.html	On Carrier in Gulf, Cheney Warns Iran - New York Times On Carrier in Gulf, Cheney Warns Iran Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 BRUSSELS, May 11 — Vice President used the deck of an American aircraft carrier just 150 miles off ’s coast as the backdrop today to warn the country that the United States was prepared to use its naval power to keep Tehran from disrupting off oil routes or “gaining nuclear weapons and dominating this region.” Skip to next paragraph Vice President Dick Cheney on board the USS John C. Stennis aircraft carrier in the Persian Gulf today. Back Story With The Times's David Sanger ( Little of what Mr. Cheney said in the cavernous hangar bay of the aircraft carrier U.S.S. John C. Stennis, one of two carriers whose strike groups are now in the Persian Gulf, was new. Each individual line had, in some form, been said before, at various points in the four-year-long nuclear standoff with Iran, and during the increasingly tense arguments over whether Iran is aiding the insurgents in Iraq. But Mr. Cheney stitched all of those warnings together, and the symbolism of sending the administration’s most famous hawk to deliver the speech so close to Iran’s coast was unmistakable. It also came just a week after Secretary of State talked briefly and inconclusively with Iran’s foreign minister, a step toward re-engagement with Iran that some in the administration have opposed. Mr. Cheney’s sharp warnings appeared to be part of a two-track administration campaign to push back at Iran, while leaving the door open to negotiations. It was almost exactly a year ago that the United States offered to negotiate with Iran as long as it first agreed to halt enriching uranium, a decision in which Mr. Cheney, participants said, was not a major player. Similarly, the speech today was not circulated broadly in the government before it was delivered, a senior American diplomat said. “He kind of runs by his own rules,” the official said. When President Bush ordered the two carriers into the Gulf late last year, senior administration officials said it was part of an effort to gain some negotiating leverage over the Iranians. At about the same time, American military personnel began capturing some Iranians in Iraq, and some of them are still held there. American officials have also been pressing Europeans banks and companies to avoid doing business with Tehran, in an effort to make it more difficult for the country to recycle its oil profits. Oil seemed to be on Mr. Cheney’s mind today, when he told an audience of 3,500 to 4,000 American service members on the Stennis that Iran would not be permitted to choke off oil shipments through the waters of the region. “With two carrier strike groups in the Gulf, we’re sending clear messages to friends and adversaries alike,” he said. “We’ll keep the sea lanes open. We’ll stand with our friends in opposing extremism and strategic threats. We’ll disrupt attacks on our own forces. We’ll continue bringing relief to those who suffer, and delivering justice to the enemies of freedom. And we’ll stand with others to prevent Iran from gaining nuclear weapons and dominating this region.” Some experts on Iran have questioned whether the threats that administration officials occasionally deliver to Iran aid or undercut the diplomacy with the country. “The problem with the two-track policy is that the first track — coercion, sanctions, naval deployments — can undercut the results on the second track,” said Ray Takeyh, an Iran scholar at the Council of Foreign Relations and the author of “Hidden Iran: Paradox and Power in the Islamic Republic” (Henry Holt, 2006). “There are some in Tehran who will look at Cheney on that carrier and say that everything Rice is offering is not real. What’s real, to their mind, are the coercive policies Cheney is describing. “This is a case where we are trying to get through negotiations what, so far, we couldn’t get through coercion.” The symbols of coercion were part of the backdrop on the Stennis: Mr. Cheney spoke in front of five F-18 Super Hornet warplanes. But mindful of the lasting imagery of President Bush on another carrier a little more than four years ago, there were no signs proclaiming success, much less “Mission Accomplished.” Instead, Mr. Cheney repeated his arguments about the danger of early withdrawal from Iraq. “I want you to know that the American people will not support a policy of retreat,” Mr. Cheney said. “We want to complete the mission, we want to get it done right, and then we want to return home with honor.” Mr. Cheney is on a weeklong visit to the Middle East, and made Iraq his first stop on Wednesday and Thursday. He spoke to American troops stationed near ’s birthplace, Tikrit, telling them in somber tones that they still had a tough fight ahead of them. His assessment stood in stark contrast to the one he made two years ago, when he declared in an interview with CNN that the insurgency in Iraq was in its “last throes.” The United States remains at odds with Iran over its uranium-enrichment program, which Iran says is for peaceful nuclear energy, but which America and its Western allies say is intended instead to produce atomic weapons. Administration officials have also said that weapons are being smuggled into Iraq from Iran and that insurgents may be getting training in bomb-making and bomb-placing techniques in Iran. The Iranian government denies sponsoring or encouraging terrorism. Mr. Cheney visited the U.S.S. John C. Stennis before, in March 2002, at a time when he was trying to build support for the invasion of Iraq. He also visited Abu Dhabi in the United Arab Emirates, where the president of Iran, , is expected to arrive in the next few days. Mr. Cheney’s tour is also scheduled to include visits to Saudi Arabia and Jordan. Alissa J. Rubin contributed reporting for this article from Baghdad, and Graham Bowley contributed from New York. More Articles in International &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Senators Question Halliburton Executive About Dealings in Iran No Diplomatic Change After Britons' Release THE NATION: Correspondence; Reporters and Sources Slowed Their Dance to Show the Steps DIPLOMATIC MEMO; U.S. and Iran May Steal the Show at Iraq's Security Meeting More Articles in International &#x00bb; A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/12/washington/12gitmo.html?ex=1336622400&en=93e8adaf57f82462&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	U.S. Won&#8217;t Limit Detainees&#8217; Visits With Attorneys - New York Times U.S. Won&#8217;t Limit Detainees&#8217; Visits With Attorneys Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 12, 2007 The Justice Department yesterday withdrew one of its proposals to tighten restrictions on lawyers representing detainees at , but said it would continue to press a federal appeals court for other limitations on the lawyers. In a court filing yesterday morning, department lawyers said they were no longer asking the appeals court in Washington to limit the lawyers to three visits with detainees at the Guant&#225;namo naval base, where about 380 men are now held. A series of department proposals to curtail detainees&#8217; lawyers drew wide attention and was criticized by legal groups and in Congress, with opponents saying the Bush administration was denying detainees the most rudimentary tools to challenge their confinement. &#8220;After further consideration of this issue by the Department of Defense,&#8221; the tersely worded filing said, the government &#8220;is no longer seeking to incorporate a three-visit threshold for the number of counsel visits.&#8221; But the filing made clear that the administration would continue to seek other limitations on the lawyers. These would include requests to permit only one visit for a detainee to authorize a lawyer to handle his case; to screen mail sent by lawyers; and to allow government officials, on their own, to deny lawyers access to secret evidence used against detainees by military panels. The filing came days before arguments are scheduled in a case that has become one of the main battlegrounds in the legal struggle over the administration&#8217;s detention policies. In that case, eight detainees have challenged the findings that they are properly being held as enemy combatants. Arguments are scheduled for Tuesday in the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit. The proposal that would have cut off lawyers&#8217; access to their clients had been controversial, partly because it came as many detainees were resisting cooperating with their lawyers, adding a new layer of complexity to the legal battle over Guant&#225;namo. Some critics said that yesterday&#8217;s government action was a strategic retreat on the proposal that had drawn the most fire, and that the remaining proposed restrictions would damage the relationships between lawyers and detainees. &#8220;This is window dressing,&#8221; said Vincent Warren, the executive director of the Center for Constitutional Rights, an advocacy group that has coordinated the detainees&#8217; lawyers. &#8220;The remaining restrictions &#151; which include monitoring attorney-client mail &#151; makes meaningful representation impossible,&#8221; Mr. Warren said. Barry M. Kamins, president of the New York City Bar Association and one of the most outspoken critics of the department proposals, said yesterday&#8217;s action would not win over lawyers&#8217; groups that had opposed the proposals. &#8220;The easing of this one rule barely begins to address the egregious violations of the attorney-client relationship,&#8221; Mr. Kamins said. But some supporters of the department&#8217;s proposal said critics had not paid adequate attention to the government&#8217;s accusations that the restrictions were necessary because the detainees&#8217; lawyers had caused unrest at Guant&#225;namo by providing the detainees information about terrorist attacks and other events. &#8220;There are real national security issues here,&#8221; said Gregory S. McNeal, a professor at the Dickinson School of Law who has been a consultant to war-crimes prosecutors at Guant&#225;namo. One new rule the Justice Department is still proposing would permit government officials to unilaterally deny the lawyers access to any secret evidence used by military panels to determine that their clients were enemy combatants, which would be a reversal of existing procedures. Another proposal declares that if officials conclude that detainees&#8217; lawyers violate any of the rules governing their actions, the government &#8220;may bar counsel from visiting the U.S. Naval Base at Guant&#225;namo Bay, Cuba&#8221; without any court authorization. Under the current practice, lawyers said, disputes have been addressed by a federal magistrate. Some critics of the administration said they saw the department&#8217;s decision as the most recent example of a pattern of withdrawing proposals that draw extensive criticism just before courts are called on to rule. In their original request for the new rules, the department&#8217;s lawyers had said commanders at Guant&#225;namo had called for the restrictions because of &#8220;intractable problems and threats to security at Guant&#225;namo&#8221; that they blamed on civilian lawyers for detainees. But in an interview reported in The Miami Herald last week, Rear Adm. Harry B. Harris, the commander at Guant&#225;namo, was quoted as saying that the officers had changed their view. Admiral Harris said that the remarks cited by the department had been made last summer after a riot and the suicides of three detainees, and that the circumstances were now less turbulent. Yesterday&#8217;s court filing included a two-page affidavit dated Thursday, in which Admiral Harris said that the detention facility &#8220;has re-evaluated its requirements to ensure that its procedures concerning attorney visitation and related matters are not more stringent than necessary.&#8221; He declined an interview request yesterday. A Pentagon spokesman, Cmdr. Jeffrey D. Gordon, said the remaining restrictions the government was seeking in court &#8220;remain warranted and appropriate in light of operations at Guant&#225;namo.&#8221; A spokesman for the department, Erik Ablin, said that in the court case &#8220;the position of the United States is driven by base security operational and resource concerns.&#8221; More Articles in Washington &#x00bb; Explore TimesSelect with a no-risk 14-day free trial. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. U.S. ASKS COURT TO LIMIT LAWYERS AT GUANTÃNAMO New to Pentagon, Gates Argued For Closing GuantÃ¡namo Prison COURT ENDORSES CURBS ON APPEAL BY U.S. DETAINEES Detainees' Access to Lawyers Is Security Risk, C.I.A. Says Guantanamo Bay Naval Base (Cuba) Freedom and Human Rights More Articles in Washington &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Bush in Accord With Democrats on Trade Deals President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds Role of F.B.I. Informer Draws Praise and Questions On Carrier in Gulf, Cheney Issues Warning to Iran Romney Works to Put Skeptics' Doubts to Rest Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/12/washington/12gitmo.html?ex=1336622400&en=93e8adaf57f82462&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	U.S. Won&#8217;t Limit Detainees&#8217; Visits With Attorneys - New York Times U.S. Won&#8217;t Limit Detainees&#8217; Visits With Attorneys Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 12, 2007 The Justice Department yesterday withdrew one of its proposals to tighten restrictions on lawyers representing detainees at , but said it would continue to press a federal appeals court for other limitations on the lawyers. In a court filing yesterday morning, department lawyers said they were no longer asking the appeals court in Washington to limit the lawyers to three visits with detainees at the Guant&#225;namo naval base, where about 380 men are now held. A series of department proposals to curtail detainees&#8217; lawyers drew wide attention and was criticized by legal groups and in Congress, with opponents saying the Bush administration was denying detainees the most rudimentary tools to challenge their confinement. &#8220;After further consideration of this issue by the Department of Defense,&#8221; the tersely worded filing said, the government &#8220;is no longer seeking to incorporate a three-visit threshold for the number of counsel visits.&#8221; But the filing made clear that the administration would continue to seek other limitations on the lawyers. These would include requests to permit only one visit for a detainee to authorize a lawyer to handle his case; to screen mail sent by lawyers; and to allow government officials, on their own, to deny lawyers access to secret evidence used against detainees by military panels. The filing came days before arguments are scheduled in a case that has become one of the main battlegrounds in the legal struggle over the administration&#8217;s detention policies. In that case, eight detainees have challenged the findings that they are properly being held as enemy combatants. Arguments are scheduled for Tuesday in the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit. The proposal that would have cut off lawyers&#8217; access to their clients had been controversial, partly because it came as many detainees were resisting cooperating with their lawyers, adding a new layer of complexity to the legal battle over Guant&#225;namo. Some critics said that yesterday&#8217;s government action was a strategic retreat on the proposal that had drawn the most fire, and that the remaining proposed restrictions would damage the relationships between lawyers and detainees. &#8220;This is window dressing,&#8221; said Vincent Warren, the executive director of the Center for Constitutional Rights, an advocacy group that has coordinated the detainees&#8217; lawyers. &#8220;The remaining restrictions &#151; which include monitoring attorney-client mail &#151; makes meaningful representation impossible,&#8221; Mr. Warren said. Barry M. Kamins, president of the New York City Bar Association and one of the most outspoken critics of the department proposals, said yesterday&#8217;s action would not win over lawyers&#8217; groups that had opposed the proposals. &#8220;The easing of this one rule barely begins to address the egregious violations of the attorney-client relationship,&#8221; Mr. Kamins said. But some supporters of the department&#8217;s proposal said critics had not paid adequate attention to the government&#8217;s accusations that the restrictions were necessary because the detainees&#8217; lawyers had caused unrest at Guant&#225;namo by providing the detainees information about terrorist attacks and other events. &#8220;There are real national security issues here,&#8221; said Gregory S. McNeal, a professor at the Dickinson School of Law who has been a consultant to war-crimes prosecutors at Guant&#225;namo. One new rule the Justice Department is still proposing would permit government officials to unilaterally deny the lawyers access to any secret evidence used by military panels to determine that their clients were enemy combatants, which would be a reversal of existing procedures. Another proposal declares that if officials conclude that detainees&#8217; lawyers violate any of the rules governing their actions, the government &#8220;may bar counsel from visiting the U.S. Naval Base at Guant&#225;namo Bay, Cuba&#8221; without any court authorization. Under the current practice, lawyers said, disputes have been addressed by a federal magistrate. Some critics of the administration said they saw the department&#8217;s decision as the most recent example of a pattern of withdrawing proposals that draw extensive criticism just before courts are called on to rule. In their original request for the new rules, the department&#8217;s lawyers had said commanders at Guant&#225;namo had called for the restrictions because of &#8220;intractable problems and threats to security at Guant&#225;namo&#8221; that they blamed on civilian lawyers for detainees. But in an interview reported in The Miami Herald last week, Rear Adm. Harry B. Harris, the commander at Guant&#225;namo, was quoted as saying that the officers had changed their view. Admiral Harris said that the remarks cited by the department had been made last summer after a riot and the suicides of three detainees, and that the circumstances were now less turbulent. Yesterday&#8217;s court filing included a two-page affidavit dated Thursday, in which Admiral Harris said that the detention facility &#8220;has re-evaluated its requirements to ensure that its procedures concerning attorney visitation and related matters are not more stringent than necessary.&#8221; He declined an interview request yesterday. A Pentagon spokesman, Cmdr. Jeffrey D. Gordon, said the remaining restrictions the government was seeking in court &#8220;remain warranted and appropriate in light of operations at Guant&#225;namo.&#8221; A spokesman for the department, Erik Ablin, said that in the court case &#8220;the position of the United States is driven by base security operational and resource concerns.&#8221; More Articles in Washington &#x00bb; Explore TimesSelect with a no-risk 14-day free trial. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. U.S. ASKS COURT TO LIMIT LAWYERS AT GUANTÃNAMO New to Pentagon, Gates Argued For Closing GuantÃ¡namo Prison COURT ENDORSES CURBS ON APPEAL BY U.S. DETAINEES Detainees' Access to Lawyers Is Security Risk, C.I.A. Says Guantanamo Bay Naval Base (Cuba) Freedom and Human Rights More Articles in Washington &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Bush in Accord With Democrats on Trade Deals President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds Role of F.B.I. Informer Draws Praise and Questions On Carrier in Gulf, Cheney Issues Warning to Iran Romney Works to Put Skeptics' Doubts to Rest Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/12/washington/12monica.html	Colleagues Cite Partisan Focus by Justice Official - New York Times Colleagues Cite Partisan Focus by Justice Official Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 12, 2007 WASHINGTON, May 11 — Two years ago, Robin C. Ashton, a seasoned criminal prosecutor at the Department of Justice, learned from her boss that a promised promotion was no longer hers. Skip to next paragraph Monica Goodling is accused of partisan influence in Justice Department hirings and firings. “You have a Monica problem,” Ms. Ashton was told, according to several Justice Department officials. Referring to Monica M. Goodling, a 31-year-old, relatively inexperienced lawyer who had only recently arrived in the office, the boss added, “She believes you’re a Democrat and doesn’t feel you can be trusted.” Ms. Ashton’s ouster — she left the Executive Office for United States Attorneys for another Justice Department post two weeks later — was a critical early step in a plan that would later culminate in the ouster of nine Ms. Goodling would soon be quizzing applicants for civil service jobs at Justice Department headquarters with questions that several United States attorneys said were inappropriate, like who was their favorite president and Supreme Court justice. One department official said an applicant was even asked, “Have you ever cheated on your wife?” Ms. Goodling also moved to block the hiring of prosecutors with résumés that suggested they might be Democrats, even though they were seeking posts that were supposed to be nonpartisan, two department officials said. And she helped maintain lists of all the United States attorneys that graded their loyalty to the Bush administration, including work on past political campaigns, and noted if they were members of the Federalist Society, a conservative legal group. By the time Ms. Goodling resigned in April — after her role in the firing of the prosecutors became public and she had been promoted to the role of White House liaison — she and other senior department officials had revamped personnel practices affecting employees from the top of the agency to the bottom. The people who spoke about Ms. Goodling’s role at the department, including eight current Justice Department lawyers and staff, did so only on condition of anonymity for fear of retribution. Several added that they found her activities objectionable and damaging to the integrity of the department. Ms. Goodling, who is under investigation by the department’s inspector general and ethics office, as well as Congress, has declined to testify before a House panel, citing her Fifth Amendment privilege to avoid making self-incriminating statements. Her lawyer, John M. Dowd, declined to comment on Friday. A judge in Federal District Court in Washington signed an order Friday to grant Ms. Goodling limited immunity, which will allow House investigators to compel her to answer questions. Justice Department officials declined to respond to questions about Ms. Goodling’s actions and refused to allow some agency employees to speak with a reporter about them. “Whether or not Ms. Goodling engaged in prohibited personnel practices is the subject of an ongoing investigation,” a written statement said. “Given the ongoing nature of the investigation, we are unable to comment on the allegations.” H. E. Cummins III, one of the fired prosecutors, said Justice Department officials should have recognized that Ms. Goodling’s strategy was flawed from the start. “She was inexperienced, way too naïve and a little overzealous,” said Mr. Cummins, from Arkansas. “She might have somehow figured that what she was doing was the right thing. But a more experienced person would understand you don’t help the party by trying to put political people in there. You put the best people you can find in there.” Ms. Goodling, now 33, arrived at the department at the start of the Bush administration after working as an opposition researcher for the during the 2000 presidential campaign. Her legal experience was limited; she had graduated in 1999 from Regent University School of Law, which was founded by . Deeply religious and politically conservative, Ms. Goodling seemed to believe that part of her job was to bring people with similar values into the Justice Department, several former colleagues said. She joined the department in the press office. Soon after, two lawyers said, Ms. Goodling complained that staff members in Puerto Rico had used rap music in a public service announcement intended to discourage gun crime. “That is just outrageous,” she told one department lawyer. “How could they use government money for an ad that featured rap music? That kind of music glorifies violence.” Ms. Goodling’s shift to the executive office, which oversees budgets, management and performance evaluations of United States attorneys, occurred as officials in the White House and Justice Department were considering replacing a number of the top prosecutors. The first lists of possible targets had already been drawn up. But while those lists were being refined, Ms. Goodling, who would become deputy director of the executive office, was quietly helping make other changes. More Articles in Washington &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Missouri Prosecutor Says He Was Pushed to Resign Ex-Justice Dept. Official Defends Ousted U.S. Attorneys Justice Dept. Announces Inquiry Into Its Hiring Practices National Briefing | Washington: Documents Related To U.S. Attorney Firings Are Withheld Suspensions, Dismissals and Resignations More Articles in Washington &#x00bb; The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics 42nd Street Crosstown Trolley, 1898 N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/12/washington/12monica.html	Colleagues Cite Partisan Focus by Justice Official - New York Times Colleagues Cite Partisan Focus by Justice Official Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 12, 2007 WASHINGTON, May 11 — Two years ago, Robin C. Ashton, a seasoned criminal prosecutor at the Department of Justice, learned from her boss that a promised promotion was no longer hers. Skip to next paragraph Monica Goodling is accused of partisan influence in Justice Department hirings and firings. “You have a Monica problem,” Ms. Ashton was told, according to several Justice Department officials. Referring to Monica M. Goodling, a 31-year-old, relatively inexperienced lawyer who had only recently arrived in the office, the boss added, “She believes you’re a Democrat and doesn’t feel you can be trusted.” Ms. Ashton’s ouster — she left the Executive Office for United States Attorneys for another Justice Department post two weeks later — was a critical early step in a plan that would later culminate in the ouster of nine Ms. Goodling would soon be quizzing applicants for civil service jobs at Justice Department headquarters with questions that several United States attorneys said were inappropriate, like who was their favorite president and Supreme Court justice. One department official said an applicant was even asked, “Have you ever cheated on your wife?” Ms. Goodling also moved to block the hiring of prosecutors with résumés that suggested they might be Democrats, even though they were seeking posts that were supposed to be nonpartisan, two department officials said. And she helped maintain lists of all the United States attorneys that graded their loyalty to the Bush administration, including work on past political campaigns, and noted if they were members of the Federalist Society, a conservative legal group. By the time Ms. Goodling resigned in April — after her role in the firing of the prosecutors became public and she had been promoted to the role of White House liaison — she and other senior department officials had revamped personnel practices affecting employees from the top of the agency to the bottom. The people who spoke about Ms. Goodling’s role at the department, including eight current Justice Department lawyers and staff, did so only on condition of anonymity for fear of retribution. Several added that they found her activities objectionable and damaging to the integrity of the department. Ms. Goodling, who is under investigation by the department’s inspector general and ethics office, as well as Congress, has declined to testify before a House panel, citing her Fifth Amendment privilege to avoid making self-incriminating statements. Her lawyer, John M. Dowd, declined to comment on Friday. A judge in Federal District Court in Washington signed an order Friday to grant Ms. Goodling limited immunity, which will allow House investigators to compel her to answer questions. Justice Department officials declined to respond to questions about Ms. Goodling’s actions and refused to allow some agency employees to speak with a reporter about them. “Whether or not Ms. Goodling engaged in prohibited personnel practices is the subject of an ongoing investigation,” a written statement said. “Given the ongoing nature of the investigation, we are unable to comment on the allegations.” H. E. Cummins III, one of the fired prosecutors, said Justice Department officials should have recognized that Ms. Goodling’s strategy was flawed from the start. “She was inexperienced, way too naïve and a little overzealous,” said Mr. Cummins, from Arkansas. “She might have somehow figured that what she was doing was the right thing. But a more experienced person would understand you don’t help the party by trying to put political people in there. You put the best people you can find in there.” Ms. Goodling, now 33, arrived at the department at the start of the Bush administration after working as an opposition researcher for the during the 2000 presidential campaign. Her legal experience was limited; she had graduated in 1999 from Regent University School of Law, which was founded by . Deeply religious and politically conservative, Ms. Goodling seemed to believe that part of her job was to bring people with similar values into the Justice Department, several former colleagues said. She joined the department in the press office. Soon after, two lawyers said, Ms. Goodling complained that staff members in Puerto Rico had used rap music in a public service announcement intended to discourage gun crime. “That is just outrageous,” she told one department lawyer. “How could they use government money for an ad that featured rap music? That kind of music glorifies violence.” Ms. Goodling’s shift to the executive office, which oversees budgets, management and performance evaluations of United States attorneys, occurred as officials in the White House and Justice Department were considering replacing a number of the top prosecutors. The first lists of possible targets had already been drawn up. But while those lists were being refined, Ms. Goodling, who would become deputy director of the executive office, was quietly helping make other changes. More Articles in Washington &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Missouri Prosecutor Says He Was Pushed to Resign Ex-Justice Dept. Official Defends Ousted U.S. Attorneys Justice Dept. Announces Inquiry Into Its Hiring Practices National Briefing | Washington: Documents Related To U.S. Attorney Firings Are Withheld Suspensions, Dismissals and Resignations More Articles in Washington &#x00bb; The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics 42nd Street Crosstown Trolley, 1898 N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/12/health/12cancer.html	In New Hampshire, Soft Sell Eases Vaccine Fears - New York Times Mental Health & Behavior In New Hampshire, Soft Sell Eases Vaccine Fears Cheryl Senter/The New York Times Sophia Wheat, 16, of Hooksett, N.H., being given an HPV vaccination this month at Sanders Family Medicine in Concord, N.H. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 12, 2007 CONCORD, N.H. — A vaccine for a sexually transmitted virus that causes cervical may be creating controversy across the country, but in physicians say so many people want it that they cannot satisfy the demand. Skip to next paragraph Cheryl Senter/The New York Times Gardasil, given in three doses over six months, costs $360. The New Hampshire experience contrasts sharply with that in many other states, where opponents have cited factors like the drug manufacturer’s profit motive and the fear that inoculating young girls will encourage them to be sexually active. New Hampshire has critics of the vaccine, too. But its health officials, wanting to encourage use of the vaccine, called Gardasil, say they have hit on an optimal method: making it voluntary and giving it free to girls ages 11 to 18. In many of the more than 20 states that are considering bills to require girls to be vaccinated, a backlash has developed. In , a lawmakers’ revolt overwhelmingly overturned Gov. ’s effort to mandate recently became the sole state with a law requiring the vaccine for girls entering the sixth grade but allowing parents to refuse shots for their children. In New Hampshire, where people wear their independent streaks with pride, “I suspect that we’re not seeing a significant controversy because there was a never a discussion about whether to make this mandatory,” said Greg Moore, a spokesman for the Health and Human Services Department “This is a different type of vaccine rollout than we have ever seen,” Mr. Moore said. “We usually have to bust our hump every September to convince people to get their Sanders Family Medicine in Concord has a four-month waiting list for the vaccine, which guards against four strains of the . Exeter Pediatric Associates, one of the state’s largest practices, has given out all 380 doses it was supplied by the state since January and has a long waiting list for the next month’s supply, Dr. Wendy Gladstone said. Penacook Family Physicians has devised an elaborate triage system. Ardell Currier, a nurse practitioner, said Penacook first vaccinated 18-year-olds and then younger girls who have been sexually active, take birth control and “have had an or have had health issues, particularly psychiatric conditions” that may make them more likely to have sex. “The ethical dilemma is whom do we give that vaccine to,” Ms. Currier said. New Hampshire is spending $4.9 million on Gardasil this year, said Dr. Jose Montero, the state epidemiologist. That is 28 percent of the state immunization budget, which obtains half its financing from federal money and half from private insurers, Dr. Montero said. The legislature does not have to vote on the program or appropriate money, he added. Money for other immunization programs was not reduced, he said. Since January, the state has distributed more than 14,000 doses and is trying to obtain more doses for physicians with waiting lists. Dr. Montero said he would evaluate whether to ask for more money to buy more vaccine. At least two other states, South Dakota and Washington, are echoing the program here. South Dakota began providing Gardasil free to the same age group in late January with $1.7 million approved by the Legislature and $7.5 million in federal money, Health Secretary Doneen Hollingsworth said. South Dakota is a relatively conservative state that tried last year to ban most abortions only to have the ban repealed in a referendum. Even so, when it came to the HPV vaccine, Ms. Hollingsworth said, “the naysayers, there weren’t a lot of them, and they weren’t terribly loud.” Ms. Hollingsworth said the state had provided almost 20,000 doses. “There’s been a tremendous amount of interest,” she added. “But I haven’t heard anything about anybody running out” of vaccine. In Washington, the Llegislature just approved $10 million for voluntary vaccination for 94,000 girls over the next two years. “We basically want to see as many people get this as possible,” said Tim Church, a spokesman for the Health Department who said Washington would primarily focus on 11- and 12-year-olds on the theory that it is best to be vaccinated before being sexually active. The cost of Gardasil, which is administered in three doses over six months, is normally $360. The federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommend it for ages 9 to 26. In New Hampshire, girls outside the 11-to-18 range of the free pool have to pay out of pocket or through insurance. Some families of 11- to 18-year-olds have been doing that, rather than wait for the free vaccine. Physicians say the supply of vaccine for patients who are paying for it themselves or through insurance, produced by Merck, has been adequate. Exeter Pediatric Associates has given 480 doses of privately ordered vaccine since December, Dr. Gladstone said. Even women older than 26 are requesting it. Starting in July, the biggest insurer in the state, Anthem Blue Cross and Blue Shield, will not cover vaccines for HPV and other illnesses for 11- to 18-year-olds because they are eligible for the free pool, which receives money from Anthem, said a spokesman, Chris Dugan. Other insurers are expected to do the same, Mr. Dugan said. Doctors said that could increase the backlog for the free vaccine. Melissa Whitney of Hampstead has put her 13- and 11-year-olds on the waiting list at Exeter. “They said there were many people ahead of me, and, ‘As soon as we get some more vaccine in, we’ll give you a call,’ ” Ms. Whitney said. On Wednesday, Sophia Wheat, 16, received her second injection at Sanders Family Medicine, a few weeks later than the optimal time because of the limited supply, said Dr. Elizabeth Sanders, who is careful to inform patients that Gardasil is not effective against all strains of HPV or other “It sounded really important, so I thought it would be a good idea,” Sophia said as a medical assistant placed a yellow crayon-shaped bandage on her arm. To sort through waiting lists, some doctors give priority to older girls, some to younger ones and some to girls who have already received a dose. Yet, not everyone is rushing for the vaccine. Ms. Currier at Penacook Family Physicians said her practice had called all its 18-year-olds first, especially to recruit “the folks most at risk for HPV, because they are going to be not those most engaged in health care.” About half the 18-year-olds or their parents refused it, “most because they feel it’s too new,” Ms. Currier said. “Some parents of younger girls feel that they’re not sexually active, so they don’t need it,” she added. Maggie Theriault, a nurse from Merrimack, declined Gardasil for her 14-year-old, Samantha, because “I haven’t really investigated it all that much.” “When I did hear about it originally,” Ms. Theriault said, “I wanted her to have it. But I don’t want to be ignorant and I don’t want to rush. “She’s not sexually active yet . We have an agreement that she’s not going to be until, hopefully, she’s at least 18. I’m not saying that we won’t ever get it. It’s just that we’re going to wait a bit.” When Kimberly Barlow arranged for three of her daughters, ages 18, 15, and 13, to receive the inoculation, “my mom was actually against me getting it for them,” Ms. Barlow said. “She was saying it would lead to their promiscuity and stuff,” Ms. Barlow said. “I just thought that it was an option to do something that will likely prevent cervical cancer in my children.” Pauline Doucette put her daughter Olivia, 13, a volleyball player and karate fan, on her pediatrician’s list in October, three months before it was available. Olivia’s grandmother had cervical cancer, which is not hereditary, and Ms. Doucette had a precancerous condition, making Olivia aware of the illness. Ms. Doucette said she discussed the sexual transmission of the virus with Olivia, who has received two doses. “Most everybody in school,” Olivia said, “is getting the shot.” Next Article in Health (1 of 16) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. National Briefing | New England: New Hampshire: Cancer Vaccine To Be Free For Girls Human Papilloma Virus (HPV) Next Article in Health (1 of 16) &#x00bb; Everything you need to know about heart disease Hip resurfacing: is it right for you? The changing attitudes towards "chemo brain" Treating the awkward years N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/12/health/12cancer.html	In New Hampshire, Soft Sell Eases Vaccine Fears - New York Times Mental Health & Behavior In New Hampshire, Soft Sell Eases Vaccine Fears Cheryl Senter/The New York Times Sophia Wheat, 16, of Hooksett, N.H., being given an HPV vaccination this month at Sanders Family Medicine in Concord, N.H. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 12, 2007 CONCORD, N.H. — A vaccine for a sexually transmitted virus that causes cervical may be creating controversy across the country, but in physicians say so many people want it that they cannot satisfy the demand. Skip to next paragraph Cheryl Senter/The New York Times Gardasil, given in three doses over six months, costs $360. The New Hampshire experience contrasts sharply with that in many other states, where opponents have cited factors like the drug manufacturer’s profit motive and the fear that inoculating young girls will encourage them to be sexually active. New Hampshire has critics of the vaccine, too. But its health officials, wanting to encourage use of the vaccine, called Gardasil, say they have hit on an optimal method: making it voluntary and giving it free to girls ages 11 to 18. In many of the more than 20 states that are considering bills to require girls to be vaccinated, a backlash has developed. In , a lawmakers’ revolt overwhelmingly overturned Gov. ’s effort to mandate recently became the sole state with a law requiring the vaccine for girls entering the sixth grade but allowing parents to refuse shots for their children. In New Hampshire, where people wear their independent streaks with pride, “I suspect that we’re not seeing a significant controversy because there was a never a discussion about whether to make this mandatory,” said Greg Moore, a spokesman for the Health and Human Services Department “This is a different type of vaccine rollout than we have ever seen,” Mr. Moore said. “We usually have to bust our hump every September to convince people to get their Sanders Family Medicine in Concord has a four-month waiting list for the vaccine, which guards against four strains of the . Exeter Pediatric Associates, one of the state’s largest practices, has given out all 380 doses it was supplied by the state since January and has a long waiting list for the next month’s supply, Dr. Wendy Gladstone said. Penacook Family Physicians has devised an elaborate triage system. Ardell Currier, a nurse practitioner, said Penacook first vaccinated 18-year-olds and then younger girls who have been sexually active, take birth control and “have had an or have had health issues, particularly psychiatric conditions” that may make them more likely to have sex. “The ethical dilemma is whom do we give that vaccine to,” Ms. Currier said. New Hampshire is spending $4.9 million on Gardasil this year, said Dr. Jose Montero, the state epidemiologist. That is 28 percent of the state immunization budget, which obtains half its financing from federal money and half from private insurers, Dr. Montero said. The legislature does not have to vote on the program or appropriate money, he added. Money for other immunization programs was not reduced, he said. Since January, the state has distributed more than 14,000 doses and is trying to obtain more doses for physicians with waiting lists. Dr. Montero said he would evaluate whether to ask for more money to buy more vaccine. At least two other states, South Dakota and Washington, are echoing the program here. South Dakota began providing Gardasil free to the same age group in late January with $1.7 million approved by the Legislature and $7.5 million in federal money, Health Secretary Doneen Hollingsworth said. South Dakota is a relatively conservative state that tried last year to ban most abortions only to have the ban repealed in a referendum. Even so, when it came to the HPV vaccine, Ms. Hollingsworth said, “the naysayers, there weren’t a lot of them, and they weren’t terribly loud.” Ms. Hollingsworth said the state had provided almost 20,000 doses. “There’s been a tremendous amount of interest,” she added. “But I haven’t heard anything about anybody running out” of vaccine. In Washington, the Llegislature just approved $10 million for voluntary vaccination for 94,000 girls over the next two years. “We basically want to see as many people get this as possible,” said Tim Church, a spokesman for the Health Department who said Washington would primarily focus on 11- and 12-year-olds on the theory that it is best to be vaccinated before being sexually active. The cost of Gardasil, which is administered in three doses over six months, is normally $360. The federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommend it for ages 9 to 26. In New Hampshire, girls outside the 11-to-18 range of the free pool have to pay out of pocket or through insurance. Some families of 11- to 18-year-olds have been doing that, rather than wait for the free vaccine. Physicians say the supply of vaccine for patients who are paying for it themselves or through insurance, produced by Merck, has been adequate. Exeter Pediatric Associates has given 480 doses of privately ordered vaccine since December, Dr. Gladstone said. Even women older than 26 are requesting it. Starting in July, the biggest insurer in the state, Anthem Blue Cross and Blue Shield, will not cover vaccines for HPV and other illnesses for 11- to 18-year-olds because they are eligible for the free pool, which receives money from Anthem, said a spokesman, Chris Dugan. Other insurers are expected to do the same, Mr. Dugan said. Doctors said that could increase the backlog for the free vaccine. Melissa Whitney of Hampstead has put her 13- and 11-year-olds on the waiting list at Exeter. “They said there were many people ahead of me, and, ‘As soon as we get some more vaccine in, we’ll give you a call,’ ” Ms. Whitney said. On Wednesday, Sophia Wheat, 16, received her second injection at Sanders Family Medicine, a few weeks later than the optimal time because of the limited supply, said Dr. Elizabeth Sanders, who is careful to inform patients that Gardasil is not effective against all strains of HPV or other “It sounded really important, so I thought it would be a good idea,” Sophia said as a medical assistant placed a yellow crayon-shaped bandage on her arm. To sort through waiting lists, some doctors give priority to older girls, some to younger ones and some to girls who have already received a dose. Yet, not everyone is rushing for the vaccine. Ms. Currier at Penacook Family Physicians said her practice had called all its 18-year-olds first, especially to recruit “the folks most at risk for HPV, because they are going to be not those most engaged in health care.” About half the 18-year-olds or their parents refused it, “most because they feel it’s too new,” Ms. Currier said. “Some parents of younger girls feel that they’re not sexually active, so they don’t need it,” she added. Maggie Theriault, a nurse from Merrimack, declined Gardasil for her 14-year-old, Samantha, because “I haven’t really investigated it all that much.” “When I did hear about it originally,” Ms. Theriault said, “I wanted her to have it. But I don’t want to be ignorant and I don’t want to rush. “She’s not sexually active yet . We have an agreement that she’s not going to be until, hopefully, she’s at least 18. I’m not saying that we won’t ever get it. It’s just that we’re going to wait a bit.” When Kimberly Barlow arranged for three of her daughters, ages 18, 15, and 13, to receive the inoculation, “my mom was actually against me getting it for them,” Ms. Barlow said. “She was saying it would lead to their promiscuity and stuff,” Ms. Barlow said. “I just thought that it was an option to do something that will likely prevent cervical cancer in my children.” Pauline Doucette put her daughter Olivia, 13, a volleyball player and karate fan, on her pediatrician’s list in October, three months before it was available. Olivia’s grandmother had cervical cancer, which is not hereditary, and Ms. Doucette had a precancerous condition, making Olivia aware of the illness. Ms. Doucette said she discussed the sexual transmission of the virus with Olivia, who has received two doses. “Most everybody in school,” Olivia said, “is getting the shot.” Next Article in Health (1 of 16) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. National Briefing | New England: New Hampshire: Cancer Vaccine To Be Free For Girls Human Papilloma Virus (HPV) Next Article in Health (1 of 16) &#x00bb; Everything you need to know about heart disease Hip resurfacing: is it right for you? The changing attitudes towards "chemo brain" Treating the awkward years N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/12/world/middleeast/12oil.html?ex=1336622400&en=034ced4a02a3dcd3&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Says - New York Times Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Says Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 12, 2007 Between 100,000 and 300,000 barrels a day of ’s declared oil production over the past four years is unaccounted for and could have been siphoned off through corruption or smuggling, according to a draft American government report. Skip to next paragraph The Reach of War Go to Complete Coverage » Using an average of $50 a barrel, the report said the discrepancy was valued at $5 million to $15 million daily. The report does not give a final conclusion on what happened to the missing fraction of the roughly two million barrels pumped by Iraq each day, but the findings are sure to reinforce longstanding suspicions that smugglers, insurgents and corrupt officials control significant parts of the country’s oil industry. The report also covered alternative explanations for the billions of dollars worth of discrepancies, including the possibility that Iraq has been consistently overstating its oil production. Iraq and the State Department, which reports the numbers, have been under relentless pressure to show tangible progress in Iraq by raising production levels, which have languished well below the United States goal of three million barrels a day. Virtually the entire economy of Iraq is dependent on oil revenues. The draft report, expected to be released within the next week, was prepared by the United States with the help of government energy analysts, and was provided to The New York Times by a separate government office that received a review copy. The accountability office declined to provide a copy or to discuss the draft. Paul Anderson, a spokesman for the office, said only that “we don’t discuss draft reports.” But a State Department official who works on energy issues said that there were several possible explanations for the discrepancy, including the loss of oil through sabotage of pipelines and inaccurate reporting of production in southern Iraq, where engineers may not properly account for water that is pumped along with oil in the fields there. “It could also be theft,” the official said, with suspicion falling primarily on Shiite militias in the south. “Crude oil is not as lucrative in the region as refined products, but we’re not ruling that out either.” Iraqi and American officials have previously said that smuggling of refined products like gasoline and kerosene is probably costing Iraq billions of dollars a year in lost revenues. The smuggling of those products is particularly feared because officials believe that a large fraction of the proceeds go to insurgent groups. Crude oil is much more difficult to smuggle because it must be shipped to refineries and turned into the more valuable refined products before it can be sold on the market. The Shiite militia groups hold sway around the rich oil fields of southern Iraq, which dominate the country’s oil production, the State Department official said. For that reason, he said, the Shiite militias are more likely to be involved in theft there than the largely Sunni insurgents, who are believed to benefit mostly from smuggling refined products in the north. In the south, the official said, “There is not an issue of insurgency, per se, but it could be funding Shia factions, and that could very well be true.” “That would be a concern if they were using smuggling money to blow up American soldiers or kill Sunnis or do anything that could harm the unity of the country,” the official said. The report by the accountability office is the most comprehensive look yet at faltering American efforts to rebuild Iraq’s oil and electricity sectors. For the analysis of Iraq’s oil production, the accountability office called upon experts at the Energy Information Administration within the United States Department of Energy , which has long experience in analyzing oil production and exports worldwide. Erik Kreil, an oil expert at the information administration who is familiar with the analysis, said a review of industry figures around the world — exports, refinery figures and other measures — could not account for all the oil that Iraq says it is producing. The administration also took into account how much crude oil was consumed internally, to do things like fuel Iraqi power plants and refine into gasoline and other products. When all those uses of the oil were taken into consideration, Mr. Kreil said, Iraq’s stated production figures did not add up. “Either they’re producing less, or they’re producing what they say and the difference is completely unaccounted for in any of the places we think it should go,” Mr. Kreil said. “Either it’s overly optimistic, or it’s unaccounted for.” More Articles in International &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil THE REACH OF WAR; A DRAFT OIL BILL STIRS OPPOSITION FROM IRAQI BLOCS THE REACH OF WAR; U.S. Commander Says Fall Pullback in Iraq Would Lead to More Sectarian Killings OPEC Says It Will Not Increase Oil Production to Meet Rising Demand Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline More Articles in International &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Bush in Accord With Democrats on Trade Deals President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds Role of F.B.I. Informer Draws Praise and Questions On Carrier in Gulf, Cheney Issues Warning to Iran Romney Works to Put Skeptics' Doubts to Rest Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/12/world/middleeast/12oil.html?ex=1336622400&en=034ced4a02a3dcd3&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Says - New York Times Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Says Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 12, 2007 Between 100,000 and 300,000 barrels a day of ’s declared oil production over the past four years is unaccounted for and could have been siphoned off through corruption or smuggling, according to a draft American government report. Skip to next paragraph The Reach of War Go to Complete Coverage » Using an average of $50 a barrel, the report said the discrepancy was valued at $5 million to $15 million daily. The report does not give a final conclusion on what happened to the missing fraction of the roughly two million barrels pumped by Iraq each day, but the findings are sure to reinforce longstanding suspicions that smugglers, insurgents and corrupt officials control significant parts of the country’s oil industry. The report also covered alternative explanations for the billions of dollars worth of discrepancies, including the possibility that Iraq has been consistently overstating its oil production. Iraq and the State Department, which reports the numbers, have been under relentless pressure to show tangible progress in Iraq by raising production levels, which have languished well below the United States goal of three million barrels a day. Virtually the entire economy of Iraq is dependent on oil revenues. The draft report, expected to be released within the next week, was prepared by the United States with the help of government energy analysts, and was provided to The New York Times by a separate government office that received a review copy. The accountability office declined to provide a copy or to discuss the draft. Paul Anderson, a spokesman for the office, said only that “we don’t discuss draft reports.” But a State Department official who works on energy issues said that there were several possible explanations for the discrepancy, including the loss of oil through sabotage of pipelines and inaccurate reporting of production in southern Iraq, where engineers may not properly account for water that is pumped along with oil in the fields there. “It could also be theft,” the official said, with suspicion falling primarily on Shiite militias in the south. “Crude oil is not as lucrative in the region as refined products, but we’re not ruling that out either.” Iraqi and American officials have previously said that smuggling of refined products like gasoline and kerosene is probably costing Iraq billions of dollars a year in lost revenues. The smuggling of those products is particularly feared because officials believe that a large fraction of the proceeds go to insurgent groups. Crude oil is much more difficult to smuggle because it must be shipped to refineries and turned into the more valuable refined products before it can be sold on the market. The Shiite militia groups hold sway around the rich oil fields of southern Iraq, which dominate the country’s oil production, the State Department official said. For that reason, he said, the Shiite militias are more likely to be involved in theft there than the largely Sunni insurgents, who are believed to benefit mostly from smuggling refined products in the north. In the south, the official said, “There is not an issue of insurgency, per se, but it could be funding Shia factions, and that could very well be true.” “That would be a concern if they were using smuggling money to blow up American soldiers or kill Sunnis or do anything that could harm the unity of the country,” the official said. The report by the accountability office is the most comprehensive look yet at faltering American efforts to rebuild Iraq’s oil and electricity sectors. For the analysis of Iraq’s oil production, the accountability office called upon experts at the Energy Information Administration within the United States Department of Energy , which has long experience in analyzing oil production and exports worldwide. Erik Kreil, an oil expert at the information administration who is familiar with the analysis, said a review of industry figures around the world — exports, refinery figures and other measures — could not account for all the oil that Iraq says it is producing. The administration also took into account how much crude oil was consumed internally, to do things like fuel Iraqi power plants and refine into gasoline and other products. When all those uses of the oil were taken into consideration, Mr. Kreil said, Iraq’s stated production figures did not add up. “Either they’re producing less, or they’re producing what they say and the difference is completely unaccounted for in any of the places we think it should go,” Mr. Kreil said. “Either it’s overly optimistic, or it’s unaccounted for.” More Articles in International &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil THE REACH OF WAR; A DRAFT OIL BILL STIRS OPPOSITION FROM IRAQI BLOCS THE REACH OF WAR; U.S. Commander Says Fall Pullback in Iraq Would Lead to More Sectarian Killings OPEC Says It Will Not Increase Oil Production to Meet Rising Demand Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline More Articles in International &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Bush in Accord With Democrats on Trade Deals President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds Role of F.B.I. Informer Draws Praise and Questions On Carrier in Gulf, Cheney Issues Warning to Iran Romney Works to Put Skeptics' Doubts to Rest Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/12/washington/12pentagon.html?ex=1336622400&en=1869ff13119f376b&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Pentagon Opens Inquiry of Troop-Support Group - New York Times Pentagon Opens Inquiry of Troop-Support Group Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 12, 2007 WASHINGTON, May 11 — The Pentagon is looking into complaints that Defense Department officials charged with building public support for troops in Iraq and Afghanistan might have engaged in improper fund-raising and unauthorized spending, officials said Friday. Skip to next paragraph After touring military sites, Mark Vahradian plans a fund-raiser. The inspector general is examining whether officials who run “America Supports You,” a three-year-old Pentagon program lauded by Defense Secretary , helped arrange a fund-raiser for a private foundation set up last December by former Bush administration appointees. The foundation raises money to help troops and their families. The inquiry is also looking into whether money used for “America Supports You” and other public outreach programs has been shifted improperly from Pentagon accounts intended for other purposes. Internal memorandums and e-mail messages provided to investigators, copies of which were shared with The Times, suggest that Pentagon officials encouraged Mark Vahradian, a Hollywood film producer, to make the private foundation, called the “America Supports You Fund,” the beneficiary of a Los Angeles fund-raiser he is planning for later this year. Pentagon employees are prohibited from soliciting on behalf of private organizations, said Bryan Whitman, a Pentagon spokesman. But Mr. Whitman said the Defense Department routinely referred members of the public to outside organizations, some of which are listed on a Pentagon Web site. Though legally separate from the department’s program, the foundation is in many ways a creation of the Pentagon. It was established shortly after the department, because of legal concerns, abandoned plans to set up its own entity to raise private donations that would be handed out to private groups involved in helping soldiers who had served in Iraq and Afghanistan and their families. Mr. Whitman said that the Pentagon had no evidence so far of wrongdoing by officials, and that the decision to ask for an inspector general’s inquiry was made out of an “abundance of caution” after complaints by employees to the department’s Office of the General Counsel. “If there is something that we are doing that is inappropriate, if there is something that we are doing that is illegal, if there is something that we are doing that gives the appearance of impropriety, we want to know about that because these are important programs,” Mr. Whitman said. The decision to open an inspector general’s inquiry came several days after The New York Times asked the Pentagon questions about the “America Supports You” effort after obtaining memorandums, and other documents from an employee critical of the Pentagon’s involvement. Mr. Vahradian, whose movie credits include “Annapolis” and “Transformers,” said in an interview that he had been invited to go on a department-financed trip last fall to Qatar, Bahrain and Kuwait, where he and other civilians on the trip met with American troops and with commanders. Participants were also allowed to fire heavy machine guns at a firing range and to participate in mock raids against “insurgents,” at the Army’s Forward Operating Base Dagger in Kuwait. The private America Supports You Fund and the Pentagon program with a similar name share the same goal: to promote and encourage the work of grass-roots groups that help soldiers and their families with things like small care packages for deploying troops and renovating houses to accommodate soldiers who come home wounded. But some department officials also appear to have seen the new foundation as an important tool in their push to maintain public support for troops overseas, a task that they feared had become much tougher since the November election put the Democrats in control of Congress. “What we have learned is that the American people are beginning to fatigue, even in their support for the troops,” Allison Barber, a deputy assistant secretary of defense for public affairs said in a January 3 internal department memorandum announcing the creation of the private foundation. “I don’t think we have a minute to lose when it comes to maximizing support for our military, especially in the new political environment.” Ms. Barber also noted in the e-mailed memorandum that the Pentagon’s America Supports You effort was a “non-political” program. More Articles in Washington &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Wide Plot Seen In Guilty Plea In Iraq Project THE STRUGGLE FOR IRAQ: RECONSTRUCTION; U.S. Aide Accused of Graft in Iraq Had a Shadowy Past Boeing Hires a Legal Team To Handle Scandal Cases Inquiry Into Boeing Contracts Widens More Articles in Washington &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Bush in Accord With Democrats on Trade Deals President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds Role of F.B.I. Informer Draws Praise and Questions On Carrier in Gulf, Cheney Issues Warning to Iran Romney Works to Put Skeptics' Doubts to Rest Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/12/washington/12pentagon.html?ex=1336622400&en=1869ff13119f376b&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Pentagon Opens Inquiry of Troop-Support Group - New York Times Pentagon Opens Inquiry of Troop-Support Group Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 12, 2007 WASHINGTON, May 11 — The Pentagon is looking into complaints that Defense Department officials charged with building public support for troops in Iraq and Afghanistan might have engaged in improper fund-raising and unauthorized spending, officials said Friday. Skip to next paragraph After touring military sites, Mark Vahradian plans a fund-raiser. The inspector general is examining whether officials who run “America Supports You,” a three-year-old Pentagon program lauded by Defense Secretary , helped arrange a fund-raiser for a private foundation set up last December by former Bush administration appointees. The foundation raises money to help troops and their families. The inquiry is also looking into whether money used for “America Supports You” and other public outreach programs has been shifted improperly from Pentagon accounts intended for other purposes. Internal memorandums and e-mail messages provided to investigators, copies of which were shared with The Times, suggest that Pentagon officials encouraged Mark Vahradian, a Hollywood film producer, to make the private foundation, called the “America Supports You Fund,” the beneficiary of a Los Angeles fund-raiser he is planning for later this year. Pentagon employees are prohibited from soliciting on behalf of private organizations, said Bryan Whitman, a Pentagon spokesman. But Mr. Whitman said the Defense Department routinely referred members of the public to outside organizations, some of which are listed on a Pentagon Web site. Though legally separate from the department’s program, the foundation is in many ways a creation of the Pentagon. It was established shortly after the department, because of legal concerns, abandoned plans to set up its own entity to raise private donations that would be handed out to private groups involved in helping soldiers who had served in Iraq and Afghanistan and their families. Mr. Whitman said that the Pentagon had no evidence so far of wrongdoing by officials, and that the decision to ask for an inspector general’s inquiry was made out of an “abundance of caution” after complaints by employees to the department’s Office of the General Counsel. “If there is something that we are doing that is inappropriate, if there is something that we are doing that is illegal, if there is something that we are doing that gives the appearance of impropriety, we want to know about that because these are important programs,” Mr. Whitman said. The decision to open an inspector general’s inquiry came several days after The New York Times asked the Pentagon questions about the “America Supports You” effort after obtaining memorandums, and other documents from an employee critical of the Pentagon’s involvement. Mr. Vahradian, whose movie credits include “Annapolis” and “Transformers,” said in an interview that he had been invited to go on a department-financed trip last fall to Qatar, Bahrain and Kuwait, where he and other civilians on the trip met with American troops and with commanders. Participants were also allowed to fire heavy machine guns at a firing range and to participate in mock raids against “insurgents,” at the Army’s Forward Operating Base Dagger in Kuwait. The private America Supports You Fund and the Pentagon program with a similar name share the same goal: to promote and encourage the work of grass-roots groups that help soldiers and their families with things like small care packages for deploying troops and renovating houses to accommodate soldiers who come home wounded. But some department officials also appear to have seen the new foundation as an important tool in their push to maintain public support for troops overseas, a task that they feared had become much tougher since the November election put the Democrats in control of Congress. “What we have learned is that the American people are beginning to fatigue, even in their support for the troops,” Allison Barber, a deputy assistant secretary of defense for public affairs said in a January 3 internal department memorandum announcing the creation of the private foundation. “I don’t think we have a minute to lose when it comes to maximizing support for our military, especially in the new political environment.” Ms. Barber also noted in the e-mailed memorandum that the Pentagon’s America Supports You effort was a “non-political” program. More Articles in Washington &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Wide Plot Seen In Guilty Plea In Iraq Project THE STRUGGLE FOR IRAQ: RECONSTRUCTION; U.S. Aide Accused of Graft in Iraq Had a Shadowy Past Boeing Hires a Legal Team To Handle Scandal Cases Inquiry Into Boeing Contracts Widens More Articles in Washington &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Bush in Accord With Democrats on Trade Deals President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds Role of F.B.I. Informer Draws Praise and Questions On Carrier in Gulf, Cheney Issues Warning to Iran Romney Works to Put Skeptics' Doubts to Rest Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/12/us/politics/12rudy.html?ex=1336622400&en=9adce04fd3dde530&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Giuliani Takes On G.O.P. Orthodoxy on Social Issues - New York Times Giuliani Takes On G.O.P. Orthodoxy on Social Issues Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 12, 2007 HOUSTON, May 11 — directly challenged Republican orthodoxy on Friday, asserting that his support for rights, gun control and gay rights should not disqualify him from winning the party’s presidential nomination. Skip to next paragraph Rudolph W. Giuliani picking up a child wearing an &#147;I Love NY&#148; T-shirt on Friday at Houston Baptist College. In a speech, Mr. Giuliani conceded that his views on social questions were out of line with those of many voters. Rudolph W. Giuliani: In His Own Words The latest political news from around the nation. needed to be tolerant of dissenting views on those issues if they wanted to retain the White House. In a forceful summation of the substantive and political case for his candidacy, delivered to a conservative audience at Houston Baptist College, Mr. Giuliani, the former mayor of New York, acknowledged that his views on social issues were out of line with those of many Republican primary voters. But he argued that there were even greater matters at stake in the election, starting with which party would better protect the nation from terrorism. Mr. Giuliani suggested that his record in New York, which included leading the city after the attacks of Sept. 11 and overseeing a decline in violent crime during his eight years in office, made him the most electable of the Republican candidates, no matter his stand on social issues like abortion. “If we don’t find a way of uniting around broad principles that will appeal to a large segment of this country, if we can’t figure that out, we are going to lose this election,” he said. The speech by Mr. Giuliani reflected a decision — other campaigns suggested “gamble” might be a better word — to address head-on a fundamental obstacle to his winning the nomination: his long history as a moderate Northeast Republican in a party increasingly dominated by Southern and Midwestern conservatives. As such, it loomed as a potentially important moment in the party’s efforts to decide how to compete against the Democrats in 2008 and what it should stand for in a post-Bush era. “The mere fact that I am standing here running for president of the United States with the views that I have, that are different in some respects on some of these issues, shows that we much more adequately represent the length and breadth and the opinions of America than the other party does,” Mr. Giuliani said. Since the late 1970s, national Republican candidates have increasingly taken conservative positions on social issues. In that sense, Mr. Giuliani is bucking what many members of his party consider to be a powerful trend and confronting what is often assumed to be a wall of opposition among Christian conservatives, among other constituencies that play influential roles in the nominating process. Both his leading opponents, Senator , the former governor of Massachusetts, oppose abortion rights. Mr. McCain regularly refers to his lifelong opposition to abortion rights. Mr. Romney also regularly talks about his opposition, though he is perhaps more politically constrained because he supported abortion rights through much of his political career in Massachusetts. Tony Perkins, president of the Family Research Council, a group of conservative Christians, dismissed Mr. Giuliani’s speech in an e-mail message he sent to supporters Friday afternoon. “When people hear Rudy Giuliani speak about taxpayer-funded abortions, gay ‘rights’ and gun control, they don’t hear a choice, they hear an echo of ,” Mr. Perkins wrote. Mr. Giuliani’s speech came a week after he gave a convoluted answer to questions at a debate about his views on abortion rights, setting off criticism by conservative groups. On Friday, he offered a lengthy explanation of his views on abortion, saying that he personally opposed it but that government should not prohibit it. He acknowledged that the views differed from those of many in the audience. “Where people of good faith, people who are equally decent, equally moral and equally religious, when they come to different conclusions about this, about something so very very personal, I believe you have to respect their viewpoint,” he said. “You give them a level of choice here.” Mr. Giuliani asserted that his differences with his audience on gun control and gay rights were probably less sharp. He defended his advocacy for tough gun control measures while he was mayor of New York, but said that was central to his strategy to reduce crime in the city. He described himself as an advocate of a view of the Second Amendment that holds that it permits citizens to bear arms. Mr. Giuliani said he supported allowing gay men and lesbians to enter into domestic partnerships but opposed allowing them to marry. Marc Santora reported from Houston, and Adam Nagourney from Washington. More Articles in National &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. POLITICAL MEMO; Can the G.O.P. Accept Giuliani&#8217;s Abortion Stance? Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights ON THE RECORD; The G.O.P., Abortion and 2008 Abortion Rises Anew for Giuliani Presidential Election of 2008 More Articles in National &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Bush in Accord With Democrats on Trade Deals President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds Role of F.B.I. Informer Draws Praise and Questions On Carrier in Gulf, Cheney Issues Warning to Iran Romney Works to Put Skeptics' Doubts to Rest Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/12/us/politics/12rudy.html?ex=1336622400&en=9adce04fd3dde530&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Giuliani Takes On G.O.P. Orthodoxy on Social Issues - New York Times Giuliani Takes On G.O.P. Orthodoxy on Social Issues Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 12, 2007 HOUSTON, May 11 — directly challenged Republican orthodoxy on Friday, asserting that his support for rights, gun control and gay rights should not disqualify him from winning the party’s presidential nomination. Skip to next paragraph Rudolph W. Giuliani picking up a child wearing an &#147;I Love NY&#148; T-shirt on Friday at Houston Baptist College. In a speech, Mr. Giuliani conceded that his views on social questions were out of line with those of many voters. Rudolph W. Giuliani: In His Own Words The latest political news from around the nation. needed to be tolerant of dissenting views on those issues if they wanted to retain the White House. In a forceful summation of the substantive and political case for his candidacy, delivered to a conservative audience at Houston Baptist College, Mr. Giuliani, the former mayor of New York, acknowledged that his views on social issues were out of line with those of many Republican primary voters. But he argued that there were even greater matters at stake in the election, starting with which party would better protect the nation from terrorism. Mr. Giuliani suggested that his record in New York, which included leading the city after the attacks of Sept. 11 and overseeing a decline in violent crime during his eight years in office, made him the most electable of the Republican candidates, no matter his stand on social issues like abortion. “If we don’t find a way of uniting around broad principles that will appeal to a large segment of this country, if we can’t figure that out, we are going to lose this election,” he said. The speech by Mr. Giuliani reflected a decision — other campaigns suggested “gamble” might be a better word — to address head-on a fundamental obstacle to his winning the nomination: his long history as a moderate Northeast Republican in a party increasingly dominated by Southern and Midwestern conservatives. As such, it loomed as a potentially important moment in the party’s efforts to decide how to compete against the Democrats in 2008 and what it should stand for in a post-Bush era. “The mere fact that I am standing here running for president of the United States with the views that I have, that are different in some respects on some of these issues, shows that we much more adequately represent the length and breadth and the opinions of America than the other party does,” Mr. Giuliani said. Since the late 1970s, national Republican candidates have increasingly taken conservative positions on social issues. In that sense, Mr. Giuliani is bucking what many members of his party consider to be a powerful trend and confronting what is often assumed to be a wall of opposition among Christian conservatives, among other constituencies that play influential roles in the nominating process. Both his leading opponents, Senator , the former governor of Massachusetts, oppose abortion rights. Mr. McCain regularly refers to his lifelong opposition to abortion rights. Mr. Romney also regularly talks about his opposition, though he is perhaps more politically constrained because he supported abortion rights through much of his political career in Massachusetts. Tony Perkins, president of the Family Research Council, a group of conservative Christians, dismissed Mr. Giuliani’s speech in an e-mail message he sent to supporters Friday afternoon. “When people hear Rudy Giuliani speak about taxpayer-funded abortions, gay ‘rights’ and gun control, they don’t hear a choice, they hear an echo of ,” Mr. Perkins wrote. Mr. Giuliani’s speech came a week after he gave a convoluted answer to questions at a debate about his views on abortion rights, setting off criticism by conservative groups. On Friday, he offered a lengthy explanation of his views on abortion, saying that he personally opposed it but that government should not prohibit it. He acknowledged that the views differed from those of many in the audience. “Where people of good faith, people who are equally decent, equally moral and equally religious, when they come to different conclusions about this, about something so very very personal, I believe you have to respect their viewpoint,” he said. “You give them a level of choice here.” Mr. Giuliani asserted that his differences with his audience on gun control and gay rights were probably less sharp. He defended his advocacy for tough gun control measures while he was mayor of New York, but said that was central to his strategy to reduce crime in the city. He described himself as an advocate of a view of the Second Amendment that holds that it permits citizens to bear arms. Mr. Giuliani said he supported allowing gay men and lesbians to enter into domestic partnerships but opposed allowing them to marry. Marc Santora reported from Houston, and Adam Nagourney from Washington. More Articles in National &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. POLITICAL MEMO; Can the G.O.P. Accept Giuliani&#8217;s Abortion Stance? Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights ON THE RECORD; The G.O.P., Abortion and 2008 Abortion Rises Anew for Giuliani Presidential Election of 2008 More Articles in National &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Bush in Accord With Democrats on Trade Deals President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds Role of F.B.I. Informer Draws Praise and Questions On Carrier in Gulf, Cheney Issues Warning to Iran Romney Works to Put Skeptics' Doubts to Rest Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/12/business/12money.html	A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait - New York Times A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Erik Jacobs for The New York Times Laurence Kotlikoff, left, an economics professor at Boston University, is developing his own financial planning software. Dick Munroe, right, is a software engineer. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 12, 2007 Come retirement, it will finally be time to get back the money that has been extracted from your paycheck your entire working life. Skip to next paragraph It Pays to Hang In There Indeed, requesting your Social Security benefits might seem like the first order of business as soon as the going-away party is over. But you might be a lot better off waiting a bit longer, until age 66 or even 70 before tapping into the government retirement fund. Relying at first on other savings like individual retirement accounts or the 401(k) from work could raise your living standard in retirement as much as 10 percent, according to calculations made by Laurence J. Kotlikoff, an economics professor at This is unconventional advice as Mr. Kotlikoff is the first to acknowledge. But Mr. Kotlikoff, 56, who has been studying savings his entire career, thinks that much of what passes for financial advice is merely conventional wisdom. As noted here, he has annoyed the financial planning industry with his research that suggests that the calculators used to forecast retirement needs overstate the amount that must be saved. He also says that the elderly should be investing more heavily in equities rather than bonds, as most planners advise. “There is almost nothing that you can tell me about conventional financial advice that makes any sense,” he said. There are many skeptics. Margaret H. Smith, an assistant economics professor at Pomona College in Claremont, Calif., and a financial planner, thinks that a decision about when to take Social Security should not be coupled with other retirement funds. “It all depends on how long you live,” she said. As with many planners, she thinks tax-advantaged accounts, like 401(k)s or Roth I.R.A.s should be left to accumulate as long as possible. “If they can afford to take it at a later date because they have other sources of income, that’s good, but the lion’s share of people need every penny they can get,” said Chad Terry, the director for retirement solutions at the , a financial services company based in Des Moines. But there are some compelling financial reasons to at least hear Mr. Kotlikoff out. The average retirement age is now 62, not 65. Indeed, only 27 percent of Americans retire at age 65 or later, according to the Employee Benefit Research Institute. The early retirement might be a direct result of the early availability of the payments. But delaying retirement can make a big difference financially. The Fidelity Research Institute did a study ( ) last year showing how advantageous a delayed retirement is. It used an example of a 55-year-old making $75,000. Upon retirement at 62, he would get $15,888 in Social Security. If retirement was postponed until 66, the amount would rise to $21,768. A further delay to age 70 would yield an annual benefit of $29, 436. There is a similar effect for those who choose to stop working at 62, but don’t tap Social Security until later. Instead of payments of $15,888, the retiree who waits until 66 receives $21,181 a year in benefits and one who delays until 70 receives a $28,821 annual stipend, or 81 percent more, the Fidelity Research Institute said. There is no additional financial benefit to delaying past 70. So why don’t more people delay taking their Social Security? Some may not know how benefits accrue. It is also possible that they figure they will die in only a few years. If that is the case, grabbing benefits early makes sense, but study after study shows Americans tend to underestimate their longevity — one reason financial planners urge people to save more. A foreboding that Social Security will not be around may be another reason Americans act early. Research by Hugo A. Benítez-Silva, Debra Sabatini Dwyer and Warren C. Sanderson at the State University of New York at Stony Brook found that the fear among Americans that future benefits might not be there drives many retirees to take benefits as soon as they are available. Researchers at the RAND Corporation are studying this issue to find ways to encourage Americans to consider delaying retirement or deferring benefit payments. Mr. Kotlikoff points out that because Social Security accounts increase at the rate of 7 percent a year from age 62 to 66 and then at 8 percent a year until age 70, retirees get a better return there than they might get on the bonds inside their I.R.A.s. “That’s a safe real return of 7 percent or 8 percent,” he said. “You can’t get anything close to that in the market.” The tax implications of raiding Social Security first does not matter much for the wealthy, but for everyone else it might. Social Security income is tax- free for an individual with a total income of less than $25,000 ($32,000 for a couple filing jointly). As income rises, the share of benefits subject to tax rises to 50 percent and then 85 percent. Here is the troublesome part and it will sound familiar to anyone who has been hit with the federal alternative minimum tax on their income: the tax on Social Security benefits is not indexed for inflation. As with the alternative tax, an increasing number of people will be subject to the benefits tax and pay more to the government than they need to. “There are a lot of taxes on Social Security benefits, if you don’t do this correctly,” Mr. Kotlikoff said. Next Article in Business (2 of 20) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Next Article in Business (2 of 20) &#x00bb; The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics Open a Complete Savings Acct from E*TRADE Bank Jose Reyes Autographed Page N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/12/business/12money.html	A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait - New York Times A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Erik Jacobs for The New York Times Laurence Kotlikoff, left, an economics professor at Boston University, is developing his own financial planning software. Dick Munroe, right, is a software engineer. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 12, 2007 Come retirement, it will finally be time to get back the money that has been extracted from your paycheck your entire working life. Skip to next paragraph It Pays to Hang In There Indeed, requesting your Social Security benefits might seem like the first order of business as soon as the going-away party is over. But you might be a lot better off waiting a bit longer, until age 66 or even 70 before tapping into the government retirement fund. Relying at first on other savings like individual retirement accounts or the 401(k) from work could raise your living standard in retirement as much as 10 percent, according to calculations made by Laurence J. Kotlikoff, an economics professor at This is unconventional advice as Mr. Kotlikoff is the first to acknowledge. But Mr. Kotlikoff, 56, who has been studying savings his entire career, thinks that much of what passes for financial advice is merely conventional wisdom. As noted here, he has annoyed the financial planning industry with his research that suggests that the calculators used to forecast retirement needs overstate the amount that must be saved. He also says that the elderly should be investing more heavily in equities rather than bonds, as most planners advise. “There is almost nothing that you can tell me about conventional financial advice that makes any sense,” he said. There are many skeptics. Margaret H. Smith, an assistant economics professor at Pomona College in Claremont, Calif., and a financial planner, thinks that a decision about when to take Social Security should not be coupled with other retirement funds. “It all depends on how long you live,” she said. As with many planners, she thinks tax-advantaged accounts, like 401(k)s or Roth I.R.A.s should be left to accumulate as long as possible. “If they can afford to take it at a later date because they have other sources of income, that’s good, but the lion’s share of people need every penny they can get,” said Chad Terry, the director for retirement solutions at the , a financial services company based in Des Moines. But there are some compelling financial reasons to at least hear Mr. Kotlikoff out. The average retirement age is now 62, not 65. Indeed, only 27 percent of Americans retire at age 65 or later, according to the Employee Benefit Research Institute. The early retirement might be a direct result of the early availability of the payments. But delaying retirement can make a big difference financially. The Fidelity Research Institute did a study ( ) last year showing how advantageous a delayed retirement is. It used an example of a 55-year-old making $75,000. Upon retirement at 62, he would get $15,888 in Social Security. If retirement was postponed until 66, the amount would rise to $21,768. A further delay to age 70 would yield an annual benefit of $29, 436. There is a similar effect for those who choose to stop working at 62, but don’t tap Social Security until later. Instead of payments of $15,888, the retiree who waits until 66 receives $21,181 a year in benefits and one who delays until 70 receives a $28,821 annual stipend, or 81 percent more, the Fidelity Research Institute said. There is no additional financial benefit to delaying past 70. So why don’t more people delay taking their Social Security? Some may not know how benefits accrue. It is also possible that they figure they will die in only a few years. If that is the case, grabbing benefits early makes sense, but study after study shows Americans tend to underestimate their longevity — one reason financial planners urge people to save more. A foreboding that Social Security will not be around may be another reason Americans act early. Research by Hugo A. Benítez-Silva, Debra Sabatini Dwyer and Warren C. Sanderson at the State University of New York at Stony Brook found that the fear among Americans that future benefits might not be there drives many retirees to take benefits as soon as they are available. Researchers at the RAND Corporation are studying this issue to find ways to encourage Americans to consider delaying retirement or deferring benefit payments. Mr. Kotlikoff points out that because Social Security accounts increase at the rate of 7 percent a year from age 62 to 66 and then at 8 percent a year until age 70, retirees get a better return there than they might get on the bonds inside their I.R.A.s. “That’s a safe real return of 7 percent or 8 percent,” he said. “You can’t get anything close to that in the market.” The tax implications of raiding Social Security first does not matter much for the wealthy, but for everyone else it might. Social Security income is tax- free for an individual with a total income of less than $25,000 ($32,000 for a couple filing jointly). As income rises, the share of benefits subject to tax rises to 50 percent and then 85 percent. Here is the troublesome part and it will sound familiar to anyone who has been hit with the federal alternative minimum tax on their income: the tax on Social Security benefits is not indexed for inflation. As with the alternative tax, an increasing number of people will be subject to the benefits tax and pay more to the government than they need to. “There are a lot of taxes on Social Security benefits, if you don’t do this correctly,” Mr. Kotlikoff said. Next Article in Business (2 of 20) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Next Article in Business (2 of 20) &#x00bb; The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics Open a Complete Savings Acct from E*TRADE Bank Jose Reyes Autographed Page N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/index.html	The New York Times - Breaking News, World News & Multimedia Saturday, May 12, 2007 NYT Archive Since 1981 Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Says The report reinforced longstanding suspicions that smugglers, insurgents and corrupt officials control significant parts of the country’s oil industry. Majority of Iraq Lawmakers Seek Timetable for U.S. Exit 5 G.I.’s Dead, 3 Missing After Attack in Iraq Go to Complete Coverage » Colleagues Cite Partisan Focus by Justice Official By the time Monica M. Goodling resigned, she had revamped personnel practices at the agency. Times Topics: U.S. Attorneys Giuliani Takes On G.O.P. Orthodoxy on Social Issues By MARC SANTORA and ADAM NAGOURNEY Rudolph W. Giuliani said that Republicans needed to be tolerant of dissenting views on abortion rights, gun control and gay rights to retain the White House. Giuliani in His Own Words Times Topics: Rudy Giuliani Today's column looks at the art of political damage control. The Caucus Blog » Romney Elaborates on Evolution Mitt Romney's position could put him at odds with some conservative Christians. Times Topics: Mitt Romney Vincent Laforet for The New York Times For New York Police Recruits, Lean Times Training to be a police officer often requires sacrifices, especially for single parents like Gladys Diaz, above. In New Hampshire, Soft Sell Eases Vaccine Fears The demand for a free vaccine against cervical cancer has been so high that physicians can’t satisfy all the requests. A Father’s Pain and an Empty Pizzeria By RICHARD G. JONES The father of one of the Fort Dix terror plot suspects says he has received daily death threats and lost customers. Clashes in Pakistan City as Ousted Judge Visits Armed groups clashed in Karachi today as the suspended chief justice arrived. Several people were reported killed. Russia Strikes Caspian Pipeline Deal U.S. Won&#8217;t Limit Detainees&#8217; Visits With Attorneys Pentagon Opens Inquiry of Troop-Support Group A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Bats: A Cabrera by Any Other Name The Caucus: Romney Elaborates on Evolution The Lede: The Day the Union Jack Got Beat Back The Lede: A Prominent Iraqi Blogger Flees Do U Txt Whl Drvng? Do you think it should be illegal to send text messages and drive? Calif. Island Survives Wildfire Scare 5 G.I.’s Dead, 3 Missing After Attack in Iraq No One Hurt in Blast at Spanish Opposition Office Kidnapped Aid Worker Returns to France A. O. Scott says “28 Weeks Later” is smart in its ideas and techniques. Don’t Mess With Grandma “Georgia Rule” takes its plot in surprising directions, writes A. O. Scott. Chasing an Old Flame The best jokes in “The Ex” leave scratches, writes Stephen Holden. Our Lives as Atoms What Gets Left Behind When they move, New Yorkers “forget” to pack all sorts of things, from television sets and air-conditioners to drugs and handcuffs. More in Real Estate Mortgage News and Rates 96 ROCKWELL PLACE - REAL CONDO LOFTS ... See All Featured Properties Place a Classified Ad » Certified? Yes. Satisfied? Not Always. Some car buyers find that certification doesn’t protect them. Submit photos and comment on other readers' cars. Also, keep track of events Go to Photo Gallery Place a Classified Ad » Post a job online More in Job Market Browse jobs by industry Browse jobs by location What to Do About Wanderlust Yes, there are sensible ways to look into a new career while keeping your old one. Place a Classified Ad » Find a Classifieds listing Home & Garden Directory Small Inns & Lodges Post a classifieds ad online "The Institute, founded in 1976, is a 501(c)(3) non-profit educational association serving ..."...... Place a Classified Ad » SAVE 50% ON HOME DELIVERY Have The New York Times waiting for you, as little as $3.15 a week. N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani Be Prepared. Fight ID Theft. Equifax Credit Watch™. Equifax.com Earn 5.05% APY - Open a Complete Savings Acct from E*TRADE Bank Photos, fine art, books and more. Majority of Iraq Lawmakers Seek Timetable for U.S. Exit Amid Burst of Fervor, Pope Canonizes a Brazilian Cheney, on Carrier, Sends Warning to Iran Tears Are Mixed at Virginia Tech Commencement Suspects in Army Base Terror Plot Are Held Without Bail Spy Chief Backs Study of Impact of Warming Majority of Iraq Lawmakers Seek Timetable for U.S. Exit Spy Chief Backs Study of Impact of Warming Cheney, on Carrier, Sends Warning to Iran N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Suits Alleging Pay Violations at Restaurants Child Care Workers Get Right to Unionize Spy Chief Backs Study of Impact of Warming Purdue Will Reinvestigate Its Professor Who Claimed Desktop Fusion Doctor Grafted Skin to Aid Drug Dealers, U.S. Authorities Say Electric Pulses, Instead of Shocks, Can Help Heart Patients Passage of Drug Safety Bill Was Common Goal for Two Very Different Senators The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Burglary Charge Is Costly for Rutgers Class President Visit by Bush Tests Beliefs and Hospitality of Students at a Catholic College What Gets Left Behind Streetscapes | Readers’ Questions: How the West Side Was Won National Perspectives: Reviving a No Man’s Land Along the Tennessee River Hands on the Wheel, Not on the BlackBerry Keys Suspicious Trading on the Rise Hands on the Wheel, Not on the BlackBerry Keys What's Online: Online Ads vs. Privacy Google to Block Video Clips That Thais Say Insult King The Commissioner of Baseball Is on Deck Mariners 3, Yankees 0: In Rematch, Mariners Top Rasner and Yanks Mets 5, Brewers 4: Mets Finally Solve the Brewers’ Suppan Family Travel | Los Angeles: Adventures in Dreamland Family Travel | England: Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans Family Travel | In the Footsteps of Linnaeus: A Vast Garden of Knowledge, Still Blooming Today Dining & Wine &#x00bb; The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Latin Food at Yankee Stadium. Now, How About That! High & Low Finance: $350 Liquor? Just Spreading the Wealth Home & Garden &#x00bb; Aspiring to the Throne At Home With Charlie White: Order and Chaos in a Single Heartbeat In the Garden: It Takes a Hammer to Grow This Salad Fashion & Style &#x00bb; Clearly, Frankly, Unabashedly Disabled Girth and Nudity, a Pictorial Mission Modern Love: My First Lesson in Motherhood MDX: If It Looks Like a Duck... MKX: Beyond the Edge Wheelspin: In the Desert Near Dubai, an Oasis for Drag Racing Editorial: A Feeble Performance Op-Ed Contributor: Hepburn, Revisited Talking Again of Middle East Peace (5 Letters) Built to Last, and Lasting Getty Moves Closer to Returning an Ancient Statue to Italy Theater Review | Stairway to Paradise: Mining a Rich Vein of Sequins in Revues Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Movie Review | "Delta Farce": War on Terror Takes a Detour Film: A Loving Look at a Cinematic Tough Guy: Gangster, Hit Man, Gunslinger Theater Review | Stairway to Paradise: Mining a Rich Vein of Sequins in Revues Theater Review | 'Memory': From Wales, Tales of Berlin Then and Bethlehem Now Theater Review | 'Couples': Blissful and Benighted: Dispatches From the War of the Sexes 'God Is Not Great: How Religion Poisons Everything,' by Christopher Hitchens: In God, Distrust 'The Yiddish Policemen's Union,' by Michael Chabon: Cops and Rabbis 'Nixon and Kissinger: Partners in Power,' by Robert Dallek: The Odd Couple Week in Review &#x00bb; Nervous Energy: The (Not So) Eagerly Modern Saudi The In Crowd: Playing ‘Survivor’ in Washington Ideas & Trends: Rupert Murdoch, Once the Outsider The New Middle Ages: The Older-and-Wiser Hypothesis The New Middle Ages: A Longer, Better Life The New Middle Ages: Self-Nonmedication The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Bush in Accord With Democrats on Trade Deals President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds Role of F.B.I. Informer Draws Praise and Questions On Carrier in Gulf, Cheney Issues Warning to Iran Romney Works to Put Skeptics' Doubts to Rest Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics About the NYT Co. Jobs at the NYT Co. Add New York Times headlines to your site Add New York Times RSS Feeds Get home delivery of The New York Times, as little as $3.15 a week. The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/index.html	The New York Times - Breaking News, World News & Multimedia Saturday, May 12, 2007 NYT Archive Since 1981 Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Says The report reinforced longstanding suspicions that smugglers, insurgents and corrupt officials control significant parts of the country’s oil industry. Majority of Iraq Lawmakers Seek Timetable for U.S. Exit 5 G.I.’s Dead, 3 Missing After Attack in Iraq Go to Complete Coverage » Colleagues Cite Partisan Focus by Justice Official By the time Monica M. Goodling resigned, she had revamped personnel practices at the agency. Times Topics: U.S. Attorneys Giuliani Takes On G.O.P. Orthodoxy on Social Issues By MARC SANTORA and ADAM NAGOURNEY Rudolph W. Giuliani said that Republicans needed to be tolerant of dissenting views on abortion rights, gun control and gay rights to retain the White House. Giuliani in His Own Words Times Topics: Rudy Giuliani Today's column looks at the art of political damage control. The Caucus Blog » Romney Elaborates on Evolution Mitt Romney's position could put him at odds with some conservative Christians. Times Topics: Mitt Romney Vincent Laforet for The New York Times For New York Police Recruits, Lean Times Training to be a police officer often requires sacrifices, especially for single parents like Gladys Diaz, above. In New Hampshire, Soft Sell Eases Vaccine Fears The demand for a free vaccine against cervical cancer has been so high that physicians can’t satisfy all the requests. A Father’s Pain and an Empty Pizzeria By RICHARD G. JONES The father of one of the Fort Dix terror plot suspects says he has received daily death threats and lost customers. Clashes in Pakistan City as Ousted Judge Visits Armed groups clashed in Karachi today as the suspended chief justice arrived. Several people were reported killed. Russia Strikes Caspian Pipeline Deal U.S. Won&#8217;t Limit Detainees&#8217; Visits With Attorneys Pentagon Opens Inquiry of Troop-Support Group A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Bats: A Cabrera by Any Other Name The Caucus: Romney Elaborates on Evolution The Lede: The Day the Union Jack Got Beat Back The Lede: A Prominent Iraqi Blogger Flees Do U Txt Whl Drvng? Do you think it should be illegal to send text messages and drive? Calif. Island Survives Wildfire Scare 5 G.I.’s Dead, 3 Missing After Attack in Iraq No One Hurt in Blast at Spanish Opposition Office Kidnapped Aid Worker Returns to France A. O. Scott says “28 Weeks Later” is smart in its ideas and techniques. Don’t Mess With Grandma “Georgia Rule” takes its plot in surprising directions, writes A. O. Scott. Chasing an Old Flame The best jokes in “The Ex” leave scratches, writes Stephen Holden. Our Lives as Atoms What Gets Left Behind When they move, New Yorkers “forget” to pack all sorts of things, from television sets and air-conditioners to drugs and handcuffs. More in Real Estate Mortgage News and Rates 96 ROCKWELL PLACE - REAL CONDO LOFTS ... See All Featured Properties Place a Classified Ad » Certified? Yes. Satisfied? Not Always. Some car buyers find that certification doesn’t protect them. Submit photos and comment on other readers' cars. Also, keep track of events Go to Photo Gallery Place a Classified Ad » Post a job online More in Job Market Browse jobs by industry Browse jobs by location What to Do About Wanderlust Yes, there are sensible ways to look into a new career while keeping your old one. Place a Classified Ad » Find a Classifieds listing Home & Garden Directory Small Inns & Lodges Post a classifieds ad online "The Institute, founded in 1976, is a 501(c)(3) non-profit educational association serving ..."...... Place a Classified Ad » SAVE 50% ON HOME DELIVERY Have The New York Times waiting for you, as little as $3.15 a week. N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani Be Prepared. Fight ID Theft. Equifax Credit Watch™. Equifax.com Earn 5.05% APY - Open a Complete Savings Acct from E*TRADE Bank Photos, fine art, books and more. Majority of Iraq Lawmakers Seek Timetable for U.S. Exit Amid Burst of Fervor, Pope Canonizes a Brazilian Cheney, on Carrier, Sends Warning to Iran Tears Are Mixed at Virginia Tech Commencement Suspects in Army Base Terror Plot Are Held Without Bail Spy Chief Backs Study of Impact of Warming Majority of Iraq Lawmakers Seek Timetable for U.S. Exit Spy Chief Backs Study of Impact of Warming Cheney, on Carrier, Sends Warning to Iran N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Suits Alleging Pay Violations at Restaurants Child Care Workers Get Right to Unionize Spy Chief Backs Study of Impact of Warming Purdue Will Reinvestigate Its Professor Who Claimed Desktop Fusion Doctor Grafted Skin to Aid Drug Dealers, U.S. Authorities Say Electric Pulses, Instead of Shocks, Can Help Heart Patients Passage of Drug Safety Bill Was Common Goal for Two Very Different Senators The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Burglary Charge Is Costly for Rutgers Class President Visit by Bush Tests Beliefs and Hospitality of Students at a Catholic College What Gets Left Behind Streetscapes | Readers’ Questions: How the West Side Was Won National Perspectives: Reviving a No Man’s Land Along the Tennessee River Hands on the Wheel, Not on the BlackBerry Keys Suspicious Trading on the Rise Hands on the Wheel, Not on the BlackBerry Keys What's Online: Online Ads vs. Privacy Google to Block Video Clips That Thais Say Insult King The Commissioner of Baseball Is on Deck Mariners 3, Yankees 0: In Rematch, Mariners Top Rasner and Yanks Mets 5, Brewers 4: Mets Finally Solve the Brewers’ Suppan Family Travel | Los Angeles: Adventures in Dreamland Family Travel | England: Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans Family Travel | In the Footsteps of Linnaeus: A Vast Garden of Knowledge, Still Blooming Today Dining & Wine &#x00bb; The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Latin Food at Yankee Stadium. Now, How About That! High & Low Finance: $350 Liquor? Just Spreading the Wealth Home & Garden &#x00bb; Aspiring to the Throne At Home With Charlie White: Order and Chaos in a Single Heartbeat In the Garden: It Takes a Hammer to Grow This Salad Fashion & Style &#x00bb; Clearly, Frankly, Unabashedly Disabled Girth and Nudity, a Pictorial Mission Modern Love: My First Lesson in Motherhood MDX: If It Looks Like a Duck... MKX: Beyond the Edge Wheelspin: In the Desert Near Dubai, an Oasis for Drag Racing Editorial: A Feeble Performance Op-Ed Contributor: Hepburn, Revisited Talking Again of Middle East Peace (5 Letters) Built to Last, and Lasting Getty Moves Closer to Returning an Ancient Statue to Italy Theater Review | Stairway to Paradise: Mining a Rich Vein of Sequins in Revues Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Movie Review | "Delta Farce": War on Terror Takes a Detour Film: A Loving Look at a Cinematic Tough Guy: Gangster, Hit Man, Gunslinger Theater Review | Stairway to Paradise: Mining a Rich Vein of Sequins in Revues Theater Review | 'Memory': From Wales, Tales of Berlin Then and Bethlehem Now Theater Review | 'Couples': Blissful and Benighted: Dispatches From the War of the Sexes 'God Is Not Great: How Religion Poisons Everything,' by Christopher Hitchens: In God, Distrust 'The Yiddish Policemen's Union,' by Michael Chabon: Cops and Rabbis 'Nixon and Kissinger: Partners in Power,' by Robert Dallek: The Odd Couple Week in Review &#x00bb; Nervous Energy: The (Not So) Eagerly Modern Saudi The In Crowd: Playing ‘Survivor’ in Washington Ideas & Trends: Rupert Murdoch, Once the Outsider The New Middle Ages: The Older-and-Wiser Hypothesis The New Middle Ages: A Longer, Better Life The New Middle Ages: Self-Nonmedication The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Bush in Accord With Democrats on Trade Deals President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds Role of F.B.I. Informer Draws Praise and Questions On Carrier in Gulf, Cheney Issues Warning to Iran Romney Works to Put Skeptics' Doubts to Rest Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics About the NYT Co. Jobs at the NYT Co. Add New York Times headlines to your site Add New York Times RSS Feeds Get home delivery of The New York Times, as little as $3.15 a week. The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/12/washington/12pentagon.html	Pentagon Opens Inquiry of Troop-Support Group - New York Times Pentagon Opens Inquiry of Troop-Support Group Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 12, 2007 WASHINGTON, May 11 — The Pentagon is looking into complaints that Defense Department officials charged with building public support for troops in Iraq and Afghanistan might have engaged in improper fund-raising and unauthorized spending, officials said Friday. Skip to next paragraph After touring military sites, Mark Vahradian plans a fund-raiser. The inspector general is examining whether officials who run “America Supports You,” a three-year-old Pentagon program lauded by Defense Secretary , helped arrange a fund-raiser for a private foundation set up last December by former Bush administration appointees. The foundation raises money to help troops and their families. The inquiry is also looking into whether money used for “America Supports You” and other public outreach programs has been shifted improperly from Pentagon accounts intended for other purposes. Internal memorandums and e-mail messages provided to investigators, copies of which were shared with The Times, suggest that Pentagon officials encouraged Mark Vahradian, a Hollywood film producer, to make the private foundation, called the “America Supports You Fund,” the beneficiary of a Los Angeles fund-raiser he is planning for later this year. Pentagon employees are prohibited from soliciting on behalf of private organizations, said Bryan Whitman, a Pentagon spokesman. But Mr. Whitman said the Defense Department routinely referred members of the public to outside organizations, some of which are listed on a Pentagon Web site. Though legally separate from the department’s program, the foundation is in many ways a creation of the Pentagon. It was established shortly after the department, because of legal concerns, abandoned plans to set up its own entity to raise private donations that would be handed out to private groups involved in helping soldiers who had served in Iraq and Afghanistan and their families. Mr. Whitman said that the Pentagon had no evidence so far of wrongdoing by officials, and that the decision to ask for an inspector general’s inquiry was made out of an “abundance of caution” after complaints by employees to the department’s Office of the General Counsel. “If there is something that we are doing that is inappropriate, if there is something that we are doing that is illegal, if there is something that we are doing that gives the appearance of impropriety, we want to know about that because these are important programs,” Mr. Whitman said. The decision to open an inspector general’s inquiry came several days after The New York Times asked the Pentagon questions about the “America Supports You” effort after obtaining memorandums, and other documents from an employee critical of the Pentagon’s involvement. Mr. Vahradian, whose movie credits include “Annapolis” and “Transformers,” said in an interview that he had been invited to go on a department-financed trip last fall to Qatar, Bahrain and Kuwait, where he and other civilians on the trip met with American troops and with commanders. Participants were also allowed to fire heavy machine guns at a firing range and to participate in mock raids against “insurgents,” at the Army’s Forward Operating Base Dagger in Kuwait. The private America Supports You Fund and the Pentagon program with a similar name share the same goal: to promote and encourage the work of grass-roots groups that help soldiers and their families with things like small care packages for deploying troops and renovating houses to accommodate soldiers who come home wounded. But some department officials also appear to have seen the new foundation as an important tool in their push to maintain public support for troops overseas, a task that they feared had become much tougher since the November election put the Democrats in control of Congress. “What we have learned is that the American people are beginning to fatigue, even in their support for the troops,” Allison Barber, a deputy assistant secretary of defense for public affairs said in a January 3 internal department memorandum announcing the creation of the private foundation. “I don’t think we have a minute to lose when it comes to maximizing support for our military, especially in the new political environment.” Ms. Barber also noted in the e-mailed memorandum that the Pentagon’s America Supports You effort was a “non-political” program. More Articles in Washington &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Wide Plot Seen In Guilty Plea In Iraq Project THE STRUGGLE FOR IRAQ: RECONSTRUCTION; U.S. Aide Accused of Graft in Iraq Had a Shadowy Past Boeing Hires a Legal Team To Handle Scandal Cases Inquiry Into Boeing Contracts Widens More Articles in Washington &#x00bb; The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/12/washington/12pentagon.html	Pentagon Opens Inquiry of Troop-Support Group - New York Times Pentagon Opens Inquiry of Troop-Support Group Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 12, 2007 WASHINGTON, May 11 — The Pentagon is looking into complaints that Defense Department officials charged with building public support for troops in Iraq and Afghanistan might have engaged in improper fund-raising and unauthorized spending, officials said Friday. Skip to next paragraph After touring military sites, Mark Vahradian plans a fund-raiser. The inspector general is examining whether officials who run “America Supports You,” a three-year-old Pentagon program lauded by Defense Secretary , helped arrange a fund-raiser for a private foundation set up last December by former Bush administration appointees. The foundation raises money to help troops and their families. The inquiry is also looking into whether money used for “America Supports You” and other public outreach programs has been shifted improperly from Pentagon accounts intended for other purposes. Internal memorandums and e-mail messages provided to investigators, copies of which were shared with The Times, suggest that Pentagon officials encouraged Mark Vahradian, a Hollywood film producer, to make the private foundation, called the “America Supports You Fund,” the beneficiary of a Los Angeles fund-raiser he is planning for later this year. Pentagon employees are prohibited from soliciting on behalf of private organizations, said Bryan Whitman, a Pentagon spokesman. But Mr. Whitman said the Defense Department routinely referred members of the public to outside organizations, some of which are listed on a Pentagon Web site. Though legally separate from the department’s program, the foundation is in many ways a creation of the Pentagon. It was established shortly after the department, because of legal concerns, abandoned plans to set up its own entity to raise private donations that would be handed out to private groups involved in helping soldiers who had served in Iraq and Afghanistan and their families. Mr. Whitman said that the Pentagon had no evidence so far of wrongdoing by officials, and that the decision to ask for an inspector general’s inquiry was made out of an “abundance of caution” after complaints by employees to the department’s Office of the General Counsel. “If there is something that we are doing that is inappropriate, if there is something that we are doing that is illegal, if there is something that we are doing that gives the appearance of impropriety, we want to know about that because these are important programs,” Mr. Whitman said. The decision to open an inspector general’s inquiry came several days after The New York Times asked the Pentagon questions about the “America Supports You” effort after obtaining memorandums, and other documents from an employee critical of the Pentagon’s involvement. Mr. Vahradian, whose movie credits include “Annapolis” and “Transformers,” said in an interview that he had been invited to go on a department-financed trip last fall to Qatar, Bahrain and Kuwait, where he and other civilians on the trip met with American troops and with commanders. Participants were also allowed to fire heavy machine guns at a firing range and to participate in mock raids against “insurgents,” at the Army’s Forward Operating Base Dagger in Kuwait. The private America Supports You Fund and the Pentagon program with a similar name share the same goal: to promote and encourage the work of grass-roots groups that help soldiers and their families with things like small care packages for deploying troops and renovating houses to accommodate soldiers who come home wounded. But some department officials also appear to have seen the new foundation as an important tool in their push to maintain public support for troops overseas, a task that they feared had become much tougher since the November election put the Democrats in control of Congress. “What we have learned is that the American people are beginning to fatigue, even in their support for the troops,” Allison Barber, a deputy assistant secretary of defense for public affairs said in a January 3 internal department memorandum announcing the creation of the private foundation. “I don’t think we have a minute to lose when it comes to maximizing support for our military, especially in the new political environment.” Ms. Barber also noted in the e-mailed memorandum that the Pentagon’s America Supports You effort was a “non-political” program. More Articles in Washington &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Wide Plot Seen In Guilty Plea In Iraq Project THE STRUGGLE FOR IRAQ: RECONSTRUCTION; U.S. Aide Accused of Graft in Iraq Had a Shadowy Past Boeing Hires a Legal Team To Handle Scandal Cases Inquiry Into Boeing Contracts Widens More Articles in Washington &#x00bb; The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/12/business/12money.html?ex=1336622400&en=03add66c2d3e0879&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait - New York Times A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Erik Jacobs for The New York Times Laurence Kotlikoff, left, an economics professor at Boston University, is developing his own financial planning software. Dick Munroe, right, is a software engineer. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 12, 2007 Come retirement, it will finally be time to get back the money that has been extracted from your paycheck your entire working life. Skip to next paragraph It Pays to Hang In There Indeed, requesting your Social Security benefits might seem like the first order of business as soon as the going-away party is over. But you might be a lot better off waiting a bit longer, until age 66 or even 70 before tapping into the government retirement fund. Relying at first on other savings like individual retirement accounts or the 401(k) from work could raise your living standard in retirement as much as 10 percent, according to calculations made by Laurence J. Kotlikoff, an economics professor at This is unconventional advice as Mr. Kotlikoff is the first to acknowledge. But Mr. Kotlikoff, 56, who has been studying savings his entire career, thinks that much of what passes for financial advice is merely conventional wisdom. As noted here, he has annoyed the financial planning industry with his research that suggests that the calculators used to forecast retirement needs overstate the amount that must be saved. He also says that the elderly should be investing more heavily in equities rather than bonds, as most planners advise. “There is almost nothing that you can tell me about conventional financial advice that makes any sense,” he said. There are many skeptics. Margaret H. Smith, an assistant economics professor at Pomona College in Claremont, Calif., and a financial planner, thinks that a decision about when to take Social Security should not be coupled with other retirement funds. “It all depends on how long you live,” she said. As with many planners, she thinks tax-advantaged accounts, like 401(k)s or Roth I.R.A.s should be left to accumulate as long as possible. “If they can afford to take it at a later date because they have other sources of income, that’s good, but the lion’s share of people need every penny they can get,” said Chad Terry, the director for retirement solutions at the , a financial services company based in Des Moines. But there are some compelling financial reasons to at least hear Mr. Kotlikoff out. The average retirement age is now 62, not 65. Indeed, only 27 percent of Americans retire at age 65 or later, according to the Employee Benefit Research Institute. The early retirement might be a direct result of the early availability of the payments. But delaying retirement can make a big difference financially. The Fidelity Research Institute did a study ( ) last year showing how advantageous a delayed retirement is. It used an example of a 55-year-old making $75,000. Upon retirement at 62, he would get $15,888 in Social Security. If retirement was postponed until 66, the amount would rise to $21,768. A further delay to age 70 would yield an annual benefit of $29, 436. There is a similar effect for those who choose to stop working at 62, but don’t tap Social Security until later. Instead of payments of $15,888, the retiree who waits until 66 receives $21,181 a year in benefits and one who delays until 70 receives a $28,821 annual stipend, or 81 percent more, the Fidelity Research Institute said. There is no additional financial benefit to delaying past 70. So why don’t more people delay taking their Social Security? Some may not know how benefits accrue. It is also possible that they figure they will die in only a few years. If that is the case, grabbing benefits early makes sense, but study after study shows Americans tend to underestimate their longevity — one reason financial planners urge people to save more. A foreboding that Social Security will not be around may be another reason Americans act early. Research by Hugo A. Benítez-Silva, Debra Sabatini Dwyer and Warren C. Sanderson at the State University of New York at Stony Brook found that the fear among Americans that future benefits might not be there drives many retirees to take benefits as soon as they are available. Researchers at the RAND Corporation are studying this issue to find ways to encourage Americans to consider delaying retirement or deferring benefit payments. Mr. Kotlikoff points out that because Social Security accounts increase at the rate of 7 percent a year from age 62 to 66 and then at 8 percent a year until age 70, retirees get a better return there than they might get on the bonds inside their I.R.A.s. “That’s a safe real return of 7 percent or 8 percent,” he said. “You can’t get anything close to that in the market.” The tax implications of raiding Social Security first does not matter much for the wealthy, but for everyone else it might. Social Security income is tax- free for an individual with a total income of less than $25,000 ($32,000 for a couple filing jointly). As income rises, the share of benefits subject to tax rises to 50 percent and then 85 percent. Here is the troublesome part and it will sound familiar to anyone who has been hit with the federal alternative minimum tax on their income: the tax on Social Security benefits is not indexed for inflation. As with the alternative tax, an increasing number of people will be subject to the benefits tax and pay more to the government than they need to. “There are a lot of taxes on Social Security benefits, if you don’t do this correctly,” Mr. Kotlikoff said. Next Article in Business (2 of 20) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Next Article in Business (2 of 20) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Bush in Accord With Democrats on Trade Deals President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds Role of F.B.I. Informer Draws Praise and Questions On Carrier in Gulf, Cheney Issues Warning to Iran Romney Works to Put Skeptics' Doubts to Rest Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics Open a Complete Savings Acct from E*TRADE Bank N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/12/business/12money.html?ex=1336622400&en=03add66c2d3e0879&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait - New York Times A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Erik Jacobs for The New York Times Laurence Kotlikoff, left, an economics professor at Boston University, is developing his own financial planning software. Dick Munroe, right, is a software engineer. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 12, 2007 Come retirement, it will finally be time to get back the money that has been extracted from your paycheck your entire working life. Skip to next paragraph It Pays to Hang In There Indeed, requesting your Social Security benefits might seem like the first order of business as soon as the going-away party is over. But you might be a lot better off waiting a bit longer, until age 66 or even 70 before tapping into the government retirement fund. Relying at first on other savings like individual retirement accounts or the 401(k) from work could raise your living standard in retirement as much as 10 percent, according to calculations made by Laurence J. Kotlikoff, an economics professor at This is unconventional advice as Mr. Kotlikoff is the first to acknowledge. But Mr. Kotlikoff, 56, who has been studying savings his entire career, thinks that much of what passes for financial advice is merely conventional wisdom. As noted here, he has annoyed the financial planning industry with his research that suggests that the calculators used to forecast retirement needs overstate the amount that must be saved. He also says that the elderly should be investing more heavily in equities rather than bonds, as most planners advise. “There is almost nothing that you can tell me about conventional financial advice that makes any sense,” he said. There are many skeptics. Margaret H. Smith, an assistant economics professor at Pomona College in Claremont, Calif., and a financial planner, thinks that a decision about when to take Social Security should not be coupled with other retirement funds. “It all depends on how long you live,” she said. As with many planners, she thinks tax-advantaged accounts, like 401(k)s or Roth I.R.A.s should be left to accumulate as long as possible. “If they can afford to take it at a later date because they have other sources of income, that’s good, but the lion’s share of people need every penny they can get,” said Chad Terry, the director for retirement solutions at the , a financial services company based in Des Moines. But there are some compelling financial reasons to at least hear Mr. Kotlikoff out. The average retirement age is now 62, not 65. Indeed, only 27 percent of Americans retire at age 65 or later, according to the Employee Benefit Research Institute. The early retirement might be a direct result of the early availability of the payments. But delaying retirement can make a big difference financially. The Fidelity Research Institute did a study ( ) last year showing how advantageous a delayed retirement is. It used an example of a 55-year-old making $75,000. Upon retirement at 62, he would get $15,888 in Social Security. If retirement was postponed until 66, the amount would rise to $21,768. A further delay to age 70 would yield an annual benefit of $29, 436. There is a similar effect for those who choose to stop working at 62, but don’t tap Social Security until later. Instead of payments of $15,888, the retiree who waits until 66 receives $21,181 a year in benefits and one who delays until 70 receives a $28,821 annual stipend, or 81 percent more, the Fidelity Research Institute said. There is no additional financial benefit to delaying past 70. So why don’t more people delay taking their Social Security? Some may not know how benefits accrue. It is also possible that they figure they will die in only a few years. If that is the case, grabbing benefits early makes sense, but study after study shows Americans tend to underestimate their longevity — one reason financial planners urge people to save more. A foreboding that Social Security will not be around may be another reason Americans act early. Research by Hugo A. Benítez-Silva, Debra Sabatini Dwyer and Warren C. Sanderson at the State University of New York at Stony Brook found that the fear among Americans that future benefits might not be there drives many retirees to take benefits as soon as they are available. Researchers at the RAND Corporation are studying this issue to find ways to encourage Americans to consider delaying retirement or deferring benefit payments. Mr. Kotlikoff points out that because Social Security accounts increase at the rate of 7 percent a year from age 62 to 66 and then at 8 percent a year until age 70, retirees get a better return there than they might get on the bonds inside their I.R.A.s. “That’s a safe real return of 7 percent or 8 percent,” he said. “You can’t get anything close to that in the market.” The tax implications of raiding Social Security first does not matter much for the wealthy, but for everyone else it might. Social Security income is tax- free for an individual with a total income of less than $25,000 ($32,000 for a couple filing jointly). As income rises, the share of benefits subject to tax rises to 50 percent and then 85 percent. Here is the troublesome part and it will sound familiar to anyone who has been hit with the federal alternative minimum tax on their income: the tax on Social Security benefits is not indexed for inflation. As with the alternative tax, an increasing number of people will be subject to the benefits tax and pay more to the government than they need to. “There are a lot of taxes on Social Security benefits, if you don’t do this correctly,” Mr. Kotlikoff said. Next Article in Business (2 of 20) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Next Article in Business (2 of 20) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Bush in Accord With Democrats on Trade Deals President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds Role of F.B.I. Informer Draws Praise and Questions On Carrier in Gulf, Cheney Issues Warning to Iran Romney Works to Put Skeptics' Doubts to Rest Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics Open a Complete Savings Acct from E*TRADE Bank N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/12/nyregion/12father.html?ex=1336622400&en=3cea29be24ec5129&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	A Father&#8217;s Pain and an Empty Pizzeria - New York Times A Father’s Pain and an Empty Pizzeria Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 12, 2007 COOKSTOWN, N.J., May 11 &#151; After the third death threat of the day, Muslim Tatar decided on Thursday to telephone a sign maker. He had an assistant dictate precisely how he wanted the big new banners to read: &#8220;Under New Management.&#8221; Not that Mr. Tatar was certain he would be able to sell his beloved and suddenly beleaguered pizzeria here, Super Mario&#8217;s. Not that he was even sure he wanted to. But he had to do something about the empty tables, the car honks, the nasty taunts. &#8220;Now, I am target,&#8221; Mr. Tatar said, standing in the deserted restaurant on Thursday afternoon. &#8220;How do I know some kid won&#8217;t come and. ...&#8221; Instead of finishing the sentence, he raised the thumb of his right hand and jabbed his forefinger, riddling the air with invisible bullets. Everything has changed for Mr. Tatar since the authorities arrested his 23-year-old son, Serdar, along with five others they described as radical Islamists, on charges of plotting to attack the Fort Dix military reservation, and said that Super Mario&#8217;s was where they obtained a map of the base. Federal prosecutors said there were no indications that the elder Mr. Tatar had any idea about the plot, and the father said he and his son had grown largely estranged in recent years as Serdar&#8217;s religious zealotry increased. For two days after the arrests, Mr. Tatar did not sleep, he said, as he at once worried about his son and questioned his innocence, all the while second-guessing himself as a parent. Asked on Thursday how he was coping, an anguished Mr. Tatar rubbed his eyes and ran his hands through his silver hair before saying: &#8220;You have kids? You put yourself in my shoes.&#8221; Mr. Tatar, 54, came to New Jersey from Ankara, Turkey, in 1992, and worked his way up from dishwasher. Five years ago he had saved enough to buy the restaurant, where four trophies for the military softball teams he has sponsored rest on a windowsill, and a sign by the cash register advertises free newborn kittens. Suddenly, he faces two nightmares. There is the possibility of losing his son to a life sentence in prison, and of seeing his livelihood vanish in blame for the terror plot &#151; blame that by all accounts appears to be misplaced. Since Tuesday, when prosecutors first outlined the case, much of the public attention has focused on the families of the other suspects, particularly of the three ethnic Albanian brothers and a brother-in-law based in Cherry Hill, N.J. But because Mr. Tatar lives and works within minutes of Fort Dix, he has more directly borne the public rage. He has heard passers-by yell expletives at him and watched regular customers sneer as they pass the store without stopping. He has worried about his wife, who was on vacation in Turkey when their son was arrested, and is being treated for what he described as a nervous breakdown upon hearing the news. He has spent much of the week shooing reporters away from the restaurant rather than serving burgers and calzones to customers as business has tapered off like a fading heartbeat: little, less, nothing. The past four days have been an arc of emotion. He has expressed skepticism about the government charges against his son. He has been confused about whom to trust. He has been angry &#151; at the anger directed his way. And in his worst moments, he has suffered bouts of abject despair. &#8220;Somebody shoot me now,&#8221; he said, sitting by the window of his empty restaurant during one particularly bleak period Thursday afternoon. &#8220;I don&#8217;t care about business. I don&#8217;t care about nothing. Come shoot me now.&#8221; Mr. Tatar&#8217;s story echoes the oft-repeated immigrant tale. He brought his wife and three young children to Cherry Hill, where Serdar went to the same high school as several of the men accused of being his co-conspirators. He began washing dishes at an Italian restaurant there, and began dreaming at the same time. He watched the chefs prepare pasta and pizza. In 2002, he bought Super Mario&#8217;s, about three miles from the entrance to Fort Dix. Next Article in New York Region (1 of 16) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Threats and Threatening Messages Next Article in New York Region (1 of 16) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Bush in Accord With Democrats on Trade Deals President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds Role of F.B.I. Informer Draws Praise and Questions On Carrier in Gulf, Cheney Issues Warning to Iran Romney Works to Put Skeptics' Doubts to Rest Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/12/nyregion/12father.html?ex=1336622400&en=3cea29be24ec5129&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	A Father&#8217;s Pain and an Empty Pizzeria - New York Times A Father’s Pain and an Empty Pizzeria Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 12, 2007 COOKSTOWN, N.J., May 11 &#151; After the third death threat of the day, Muslim Tatar decided on Thursday to telephone a sign maker. He had an assistant dictate precisely how he wanted the big new banners to read: &#8220;Under New Management.&#8221; Not that Mr. Tatar was certain he would be able to sell his beloved and suddenly beleaguered pizzeria here, Super Mario&#8217;s. Not that he was even sure he wanted to. But he had to do something about the empty tables, the car honks, the nasty taunts. &#8220;Now, I am target,&#8221; Mr. Tatar said, standing in the deserted restaurant on Thursday afternoon. &#8220;How do I know some kid won&#8217;t come and. ...&#8221; Instead of finishing the sentence, he raised the thumb of his right hand and jabbed his forefinger, riddling the air with invisible bullets. Everything has changed for Mr. Tatar since the authorities arrested his 23-year-old son, Serdar, along with five others they described as radical Islamists, on charges of plotting to attack the Fort Dix military reservation, and said that Super Mario&#8217;s was where they obtained a map of the base. Federal prosecutors said there were no indications that the elder Mr. Tatar had any idea about the plot, and the father said he and his son had grown largely estranged in recent years as Serdar&#8217;s religious zealotry increased. For two days after the arrests, Mr. Tatar did not sleep, he said, as he at once worried about his son and questioned his innocence, all the while second-guessing himself as a parent. Asked on Thursday how he was coping, an anguished Mr. Tatar rubbed his eyes and ran his hands through his silver hair before saying: &#8220;You have kids? You put yourself in my shoes.&#8221; Mr. Tatar, 54, came to New Jersey from Ankara, Turkey, in 1992, and worked his way up from dishwasher. Five years ago he had saved enough to buy the restaurant, where four trophies for the military softball teams he has sponsored rest on a windowsill, and a sign by the cash register advertises free newborn kittens. Suddenly, he faces two nightmares. There is the possibility of losing his son to a life sentence in prison, and of seeing his livelihood vanish in blame for the terror plot &#151; blame that by all accounts appears to be misplaced. Since Tuesday, when prosecutors first outlined the case, much of the public attention has focused on the families of the other suspects, particularly of the three ethnic Albanian brothers and a brother-in-law based in Cherry Hill, N.J. But because Mr. Tatar lives and works within minutes of Fort Dix, he has more directly borne the public rage. He has heard passers-by yell expletives at him and watched regular customers sneer as they pass the store without stopping. He has worried about his wife, who was on vacation in Turkey when their son was arrested, and is being treated for what he described as a nervous breakdown upon hearing the news. He has spent much of the week shooing reporters away from the restaurant rather than serving burgers and calzones to customers as business has tapered off like a fading heartbeat: little, less, nothing. The past four days have been an arc of emotion. He has expressed skepticism about the government charges against his son. He has been confused about whom to trust. He has been angry &#151; at the anger directed his way. And in his worst moments, he has suffered bouts of abject despair. &#8220;Somebody shoot me now,&#8221; he said, sitting by the window of his empty restaurant during one particularly bleak period Thursday afternoon. &#8220;I don&#8217;t care about business. I don&#8217;t care about nothing. Come shoot me now.&#8221; Mr. Tatar&#8217;s story echoes the oft-repeated immigrant tale. He brought his wife and three young children to Cherry Hill, where Serdar went to the same high school as several of the men accused of being his co-conspirators. He began washing dishes at an Italian restaurant there, and began dreaming at the same time. He watched the chefs prepare pasta and pizza. In 2002, he bought Super Mario&#8217;s, about three miles from the entrance to Fort Dix. Next Article in New York Region (1 of 16) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Threats and Threatening Messages Next Article in New York Region (1 of 16) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Bush in Accord With Democrats on Trade Deals President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds Role of F.B.I. Informer Draws Praise and Questions On Carrier in Gulf, Cheney Issues Warning to Iran Romney Works to Put Skeptics' Doubts to Rest Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/12/washington/12monica.html?ex=1336622400&en=26ad567fc04e3080&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Colleagues Cite Partisan Focus by Justice Official - New York Times Colleagues Cite Partisan Focus by Justice Official Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 12, 2007 WASHINGTON, May 11 — Two years ago, Robin C. Ashton, a seasoned criminal prosecutor at the Department of Justice, learned from her boss that a promised promotion was no longer hers. Skip to next paragraph Monica Goodling is accused of partisan influence in Justice Department hirings and firings. “You have a Monica problem,” Ms. Ashton was told, according to several Justice Department officials. Referring to Monica M. Goodling, a 31-year-old, relatively inexperienced lawyer who had only recently arrived in the office, the boss added, “She believes you’re a Democrat and doesn’t feel you can be trusted.” Ms. Ashton’s ouster — she left the Executive Office for United States Attorneys for another Justice Department post two weeks later — was a critical early step in a plan that would later culminate in the ouster of nine Ms. Goodling would soon be quizzing applicants for civil service jobs at Justice Department headquarters with questions that several United States attorneys said were inappropriate, like who was their favorite president and Supreme Court justice. One department official said an applicant was even asked, “Have you ever cheated on your wife?” Ms. Goodling also moved to block the hiring of prosecutors with résumés that suggested they might be Democrats, even though they were seeking posts that were supposed to be nonpartisan, two department officials said. And she helped maintain lists of all the United States attorneys that graded their loyalty to the Bush administration, including work on past political campaigns, and noted if they were members of the Federalist Society, a conservative legal group. By the time Ms. Goodling resigned in April — after her role in the firing of the prosecutors became public and she had been promoted to the role of White House liaison — she and other senior department officials had revamped personnel practices affecting employees from the top of the agency to the bottom. The people who spoke about Ms. Goodling’s role at the department, including eight current Justice Department lawyers and staff, did so only on condition of anonymity for fear of retribution. Several added that they found her activities objectionable and damaging to the integrity of the department. Ms. Goodling, who is under investigation by the department’s inspector general and ethics office, as well as Congress, has declined to testify before a House panel, citing her Fifth Amendment privilege to avoid making self-incriminating statements. Her lawyer, John M. Dowd, declined to comment on Friday. A judge in Federal District Court in Washington signed an order Friday to grant Ms. Goodling limited immunity, which will allow House investigators to compel her to answer questions. Justice Department officials declined to respond to questions about Ms. Goodling’s actions and refused to allow some agency employees to speak with a reporter about them. “Whether or not Ms. Goodling engaged in prohibited personnel practices is the subject of an ongoing investigation,” a written statement said. “Given the ongoing nature of the investigation, we are unable to comment on the allegations.” H. E. Cummins III, one of the fired prosecutors, said Justice Department officials should have recognized that Ms. Goodling’s strategy was flawed from the start. “She was inexperienced, way too naïve and a little overzealous,” said Mr. Cummins, from Arkansas. “She might have somehow figured that what she was doing was the right thing. But a more experienced person would understand you don’t help the party by trying to put political people in there. You put the best people you can find in there.” Ms. Goodling, now 33, arrived at the department at the start of the Bush administration after working as an opposition researcher for the during the 2000 presidential campaign. Her legal experience was limited; she had graduated in 1999 from Regent University School of Law, which was founded by . Deeply religious and politically conservative, Ms. Goodling seemed to believe that part of her job was to bring people with similar values into the Justice Department, several former colleagues said. She joined the department in the press office. Soon after, two lawyers said, Ms. Goodling complained that staff members in Puerto Rico had used rap music in a public service announcement intended to discourage gun crime. “That is just outrageous,” she told one department lawyer. “How could they use government money for an ad that featured rap music? That kind of music glorifies violence.” Ms. Goodling’s shift to the executive office, which oversees budgets, management and performance evaluations of United States attorneys, occurred as officials in the White House and Justice Department were considering replacing a number of the top prosecutors. The first lists of possible targets had already been drawn up. But while those lists were being refined, Ms. Goodling, who would become deputy director of the executive office, was quietly helping make other changes. More Articles in Washington &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Missouri Prosecutor Says He Was Pushed to Resign Ex-Justice Dept. Official Defends Ousted U.S. Attorneys Justice Dept. Announces Inquiry Into Its Hiring Practices National Briefing | Washington: Documents Related To U.S. Attorney Firings Are Withheld Suspensions, Dismissals and Resignations More Articles in Washington &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Bush in Accord With Democrats on Trade Deals President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds Role of F.B.I. Informer Draws Praise and Questions On Carrier in Gulf, Cheney Issues Warning to Iran Romney Works to Put Skeptics' Doubts to Rest Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/12/washington/12monica.html?ex=1336622400&en=26ad567fc04e3080&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Colleagues Cite Partisan Focus by Justice Official - New York Times Colleagues Cite Partisan Focus by Justice Official Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 12, 2007 WASHINGTON, May 11 — Two years ago, Robin C. Ashton, a seasoned criminal prosecutor at the Department of Justice, learned from her boss that a promised promotion was no longer hers. Skip to next paragraph Monica Goodling is accused of partisan influence in Justice Department hirings and firings. “You have a Monica problem,” Ms. Ashton was told, according to several Justice Department officials. Referring to Monica M. Goodling, a 31-year-old, relatively inexperienced lawyer who had only recently arrived in the office, the boss added, “She believes you’re a Democrat and doesn’t feel you can be trusted.” Ms. Ashton’s ouster — she left the Executive Office for United States Attorneys for another Justice Department post two weeks later — was a critical early step in a plan that would later culminate in the ouster of nine Ms. Goodling would soon be quizzing applicants for civil service jobs at Justice Department headquarters with questions that several United States attorneys said were inappropriate, like who was their favorite president and Supreme Court justice. One department official said an applicant was even asked, “Have you ever cheated on your wife?” Ms. Goodling also moved to block the hiring of prosecutors with résumés that suggested they might be Democrats, even though they were seeking posts that were supposed to be nonpartisan, two department officials said. And she helped maintain lists of all the United States attorneys that graded their loyalty to the Bush administration, including work on past political campaigns, and noted if they were members of the Federalist Society, a conservative legal group. By the time Ms. Goodling resigned in April — after her role in the firing of the prosecutors became public and she had been promoted to the role of White House liaison — she and other senior department officials had revamped personnel practices affecting employees from the top of the agency to the bottom. The people who spoke about Ms. Goodling’s role at the department, including eight current Justice Department lawyers and staff, did so only on condition of anonymity for fear of retribution. Several added that they found her activities objectionable and damaging to the integrity of the department. Ms. Goodling, who is under investigation by the department’s inspector general and ethics office, as well as Congress, has declined to testify before a House panel, citing her Fifth Amendment privilege to avoid making self-incriminating statements. Her lawyer, John M. Dowd, declined to comment on Friday. A judge in Federal District Court in Washington signed an order Friday to grant Ms. Goodling limited immunity, which will allow House investigators to compel her to answer questions. Justice Department officials declined to respond to questions about Ms. Goodling’s actions and refused to allow some agency employees to speak with a reporter about them. “Whether or not Ms. Goodling engaged in prohibited personnel practices is the subject of an ongoing investigation,” a written statement said. “Given the ongoing nature of the investigation, we are unable to comment on the allegations.” H. E. Cummins III, one of the fired prosecutors, said Justice Department officials should have recognized that Ms. Goodling’s strategy was flawed from the start. “She was inexperienced, way too naïve and a little overzealous,” said Mr. Cummins, from Arkansas. “She might have somehow figured that what she was doing was the right thing. But a more experienced person would understand you don’t help the party by trying to put political people in there. You put the best people you can find in there.” Ms. Goodling, now 33, arrived at the department at the start of the Bush administration after working as an opposition researcher for the during the 2000 presidential campaign. Her legal experience was limited; she had graduated in 1999 from Regent University School of Law, which was founded by . Deeply religious and politically conservative, Ms. Goodling seemed to believe that part of her job was to bring people with similar values into the Justice Department, several former colleagues said. She joined the department in the press office. Soon after, two lawyers said, Ms. Goodling complained that staff members in Puerto Rico had used rap music in a public service announcement intended to discourage gun crime. “That is just outrageous,” she told one department lawyer. “How could they use government money for an ad that featured rap music? That kind of music glorifies violence.” Ms. Goodling’s shift to the executive office, which oversees budgets, management and performance evaluations of United States attorneys, occurred as officials in the White House and Justice Department were considering replacing a number of the top prosecutors. The first lists of possible targets had already been drawn up. But while those lists were being refined, Ms. Goodling, who would become deputy director of the executive office, was quietly helping make other changes. More Articles in Washington &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Missouri Prosecutor Says He Was Pushed to Resign Ex-Justice Dept. Official Defends Ousted U.S. Attorneys Justice Dept. Announces Inquiry Into Its Hiring Practices National Briefing | Washington: Documents Related To U.S. Attorney Firings Are Withheld Suspensions, Dismissals and Resignations More Articles in Washington &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Bush in Accord With Democrats on Trade Deals President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds Role of F.B.I. Informer Draws Praise and Questions On Carrier in Gulf, Cheney Issues Warning to Iran Romney Works to Put Skeptics' Doubts to Rest Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/12/nyregion/12recruits.html?ex=1336622400&en=632de179a0c4d3f9&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Recruits Say Joining Police Force Is a Test of Wills and Wallets - New York Times Recruits Say Joining Police Force Is a Test of Wills and Wallets Vincent Laforet for The New York Times Training to be a New York City police officer often requires personal sacrifices, especially for single parents like Gladys Diaz, heading home to the South Bronx. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 12, 2007 There are days when Wilfredo Gonell fantasizes about not having to steer his dates to the dollar menu. Or when Michael Ferrari, who is 27, recalls his life before peanut butter and jelly sandwich lunches, and before he had to become a roommate with his mom. Skip to next paragraph Vincent Laforet for The New York Times Wilfredo Gonell, left, dismissed a group of police recruits after a day of classes at the Police Academy. At first, their annual salary is $25,100. Kerry O’Connor, 32, fondly remembers when she did not have to keep her thermostat set at 60 degrees in the dead of winter. And Joseph Torres yearns for that not-so-distant time when he did not have to make a half-pound pack of cold cuts last an entire week. All four are new recruits with the New York Police Department and are struggling with the reality of scraping by their first six months on annual salaries of $25,100, the city’s pay to officers in training since January 2006. Once officers graduate, their salary rises to $32,700. Mr. Gonell, Mr. Ferrari, Ms. O’Connor and Mr. Torres, along with several other recruits, said that they knew being a police officer would never make them rich, but that their desire to join the force outweighed the financial hardship. But now, four months into their training at the Police Academy, and with graduation less than two months away, several recruits said that they had greatly underestimated just how difficult it would be to make ends meet. have gone unpaid. Credit card debts have mushroomed. Parents have been tapped, repeatedly and exhaustively, for emergency funds, extra bedrooms and leftovers. “After my mom cooks for me, I spread it out,” said Mr. Gonell, 25, who lives in the Bronx. “Rice and chicken, rice and chicken. I’m going to fly out of here eventually, that’s how much chicken I eat.” The Police Department’s entry level salary is the lowest for police officers in the region, and so is its officers’ top base pay of $59,588 after five and a half years. Those wages are a result of past contract negotiations, and Mayor has suggested that the job’s perks and prestige outweigh its drawbacks. Still, police union officials say the wages are deterring would-be recruits and driving seasoned officers to higher paying jobs elsewhere. The department hired 1,346 recruits in January, about 1,000 short of its goal, and police officials say the relatively low pay is largely to blame. Critics have suggested that the academy has lowered its standards in an effort to fill its ranks — an assertion the department denies — but Mr. Torres said the pay keeps away those who are not truly dedicated. “You’re going to get cops who really want to be cops,” he said. Still, Mr. Torres, who is 24, said he found the transition to a $25,100 salary especially rocky. A Brooklynite by birth, Mr. Torres said he made several times as much when he was a police officer in Burbank, Calif. He longed to return home, though, and be a police officer in New York. He is living rent free with an aunt on Staten Island, while his girlfriend and her 5-year-old daughter stay with his parents in New Jersey. Even so, after making car payments and buying gas and groceries, Mr. Torres said there was little left. “There was a lot of careful planning,” he said. “But right now, surviving is impossible.” Ms. O’Connor, who attended law school at Notre Dame University and until recently worked as a paramedic in Queens, said she worked overtime during the final six months of her old job to save up money. Her girlfriend took an extra job to make the mortgage payments on their new house, while Ms. O’Connor picks up the utility bills. But, like many others in the academy, she found herself unprepared and unable to cover unexpected expenses. Recruits must spend hundreds of dollars for, among other things, uniforms, swimsuits and gym clothes. They must buy their own guns and the $150 safe to store them in. Their graduation uniform costs $500. Many take out loans just to cover the costs. “If I had to do it again, I don’t know if I could,” said Ms. O’Connor, whose credit card debt and other unpaid bills have crept past $4,000. The academy’s pay is especially challenging for single parents, like Gladys Diaz, 31, who lives with her 13-year-old daughter, Samantha, in the South Bronx. Ms. Diaz relies on Samantha’s father to pay for their daughter’s clothes and sneakers. She also set up a pickle jar in her apartment that she and her daughter are filling with extra coins and dollars for a dream vacation in Puerto Rico. Much like starving students, many recruits have said goodbye to luxuries for now, and arguably a few necessities, too. They rarely go out to eat or to the movies. They said they had canceled cable television — Mr. Gonell dug up an old set of rabbit ears — and a few said they pirated wireless Internet connections. “The luxury I wanted to keep was my cellphone,” said Kiesha Lawhorne, 25, a recruit who lives in the Bronx. “I made it through by the grace of God.” Inadvertently, many recruits have become environmentally friendly, washing clothes in cold water, because it costs less than hot, snapping off lights in empty rooms and walking longer distances instead of hopping into taxicabs or cars. “I have air-conditioners in the window, but I don’t think I can afford to run them in the summer,” said Matthew Caplan, 27, who is still paying off loans for his master’s degree in forensic psychology. Already, some recruits from the current class, which graduates in July, say they are planning to take tests for police departments in Nassau and Suffolk, where officers’ top pay exceeds $90,000, or for departments in other states. Others, though, said they planned to pledge their lives to the department, even Mr. Torres, cheap ham sandwiches and all. “I want to stay here forever,” he said. “I’m know I’m always going to be N.Y.P.D.” Next Article in New York Region (2 of 16) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. On Patrol, and Now on Edge City Again Urges Pataki to Reject 2 Union-Supported Pension Bills City Trying to Ease Rule on Veterans' Pay Reimbursement THE WEEK; Sleepy Hollow Police Talks at an Impasse Next Article in New York Region (2 of 16) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Bush in Accord With Democrats on Trade Deals President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds Role of F.B.I. Informer Draws Praise and Questions On Carrier in Gulf, Cheney Issues Warning to Iran Romney Works to Put Skeptics' Doubts to Rest Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/12/nyregion/12recruits.html?ex=1336622400&en=632de179a0c4d3f9&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Recruits Say Joining Police Force Is a Test of Wills and Wallets - New York Times Recruits Say Joining Police Force Is a Test of Wills and Wallets Vincent Laforet for The New York Times Training to be a New York City police officer often requires personal sacrifices, especially for single parents like Gladys Diaz, heading home to the South Bronx. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 12, 2007 There are days when Wilfredo Gonell fantasizes about not having to steer his dates to the dollar menu. Or when Michael Ferrari, who is 27, recalls his life before peanut butter and jelly sandwich lunches, and before he had to become a roommate with his mom. Skip to next paragraph Vincent Laforet for The New York Times Wilfredo Gonell, left, dismissed a group of police recruits after a day of classes at the Police Academy. At first, their annual salary is $25,100. Kerry O’Connor, 32, fondly remembers when she did not have to keep her thermostat set at 60 degrees in the dead of winter. And Joseph Torres yearns for that not-so-distant time when he did not have to make a half-pound pack of cold cuts last an entire week. All four are new recruits with the New York Police Department and are struggling with the reality of scraping by their first six months on annual salaries of $25,100, the city’s pay to officers in training since January 2006. Once officers graduate, their salary rises to $32,700. Mr. Gonell, Mr. Ferrari, Ms. O’Connor and Mr. Torres, along with several other recruits, said that they knew being a police officer would never make them rich, but that their desire to join the force outweighed the financial hardship. But now, four months into their training at the Police Academy, and with graduation less than two months away, several recruits said that they had greatly underestimated just how difficult it would be to make ends meet. have gone unpaid. Credit card debts have mushroomed. Parents have been tapped, repeatedly and exhaustively, for emergency funds, extra bedrooms and leftovers. “After my mom cooks for me, I spread it out,” said Mr. Gonell, 25, who lives in the Bronx. “Rice and chicken, rice and chicken. I’m going to fly out of here eventually, that’s how much chicken I eat.” The Police Department’s entry level salary is the lowest for police officers in the region, and so is its officers’ top base pay of $59,588 after five and a half years. Those wages are a result of past contract negotiations, and Mayor has suggested that the job’s perks and prestige outweigh its drawbacks. Still, police union officials say the wages are deterring would-be recruits and driving seasoned officers to higher paying jobs elsewhere. The department hired 1,346 recruits in January, about 1,000 short of its goal, and police officials say the relatively low pay is largely to blame. Critics have suggested that the academy has lowered its standards in an effort to fill its ranks — an assertion the department denies — but Mr. Torres said the pay keeps away those who are not truly dedicated. “You’re going to get cops who really want to be cops,” he said. Still, Mr. Torres, who is 24, said he found the transition to a $25,100 salary especially rocky. A Brooklynite by birth, Mr. Torres said he made several times as much when he was a police officer in Burbank, Calif. He longed to return home, though, and be a police officer in New York. He is living rent free with an aunt on Staten Island, while his girlfriend and her 5-year-old daughter stay with his parents in New Jersey. Even so, after making car payments and buying gas and groceries, Mr. Torres said there was little left. “There was a lot of careful planning,” he said. “But right now, surviving is impossible.” Ms. O’Connor, who attended law school at Notre Dame University and until recently worked as a paramedic in Queens, said she worked overtime during the final six months of her old job to save up money. Her girlfriend took an extra job to make the mortgage payments on their new house, while Ms. O’Connor picks up the utility bills. But, like many others in the academy, she found herself unprepared and unable to cover unexpected expenses. Recruits must spend hundreds of dollars for, among other things, uniforms, swimsuits and gym clothes. They must buy their own guns and the $150 safe to store them in. Their graduation uniform costs $500. Many take out loans just to cover the costs. “If I had to do it again, I don’t know if I could,” said Ms. O’Connor, whose credit card debt and other unpaid bills have crept past $4,000. The academy’s pay is especially challenging for single parents, like Gladys Diaz, 31, who lives with her 13-year-old daughter, Samantha, in the South Bronx. Ms. Diaz relies on Samantha’s father to pay for their daughter’s clothes and sneakers. She also set up a pickle jar in her apartment that she and her daughter are filling with extra coins and dollars for a dream vacation in Puerto Rico. Much like starving students, many recruits have said goodbye to luxuries for now, and arguably a few necessities, too. They rarely go out to eat or to the movies. They said they had canceled cable television — Mr. Gonell dug up an old set of rabbit ears — and a few said they pirated wireless Internet connections. “The luxury I wanted to keep was my cellphone,” said Kiesha Lawhorne, 25, a recruit who lives in the Bronx. “I made it through by the grace of God.” Inadvertently, many recruits have become environmentally friendly, washing clothes in cold water, because it costs less than hot, snapping off lights in empty rooms and walking longer distances instead of hopping into taxicabs or cars. “I have air-conditioners in the window, but I don’t think I can afford to run them in the summer,” said Matthew Caplan, 27, who is still paying off loans for his master’s degree in forensic psychology. Already, some recruits from the current class, which graduates in July, say they are planning to take tests for police departments in Nassau and Suffolk, where officers’ top pay exceeds $90,000, or for departments in other states. Others, though, said they planned to pledge their lives to the department, even Mr. Torres, cheap ham sandwiches and all. “I want to stay here forever,” he said. “I’m know I’m always going to be N.Y.P.D.” Next Article in New York Region (2 of 16) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. On Patrol, and Now on Edge City Again Urges Pataki to Reject 2 Union-Supported Pension Bills City Trying to Ease Rule on Veterans' Pay Reimbursement THE WEEK; Sleepy Hollow Police Talks at an Impasse Next Article in New York Region (2 of 16) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Bush in Accord With Democrats on Trade Deals President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds Role of F.B.I. Informer Draws Praise and Questions On Carrier in Gulf, Cheney Issues Warning to Iran Romney Works to Put Skeptics' Doubts to Rest Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/index.html?partner=rssnyt	The New York Times - Breaking News, World News & Multimedia Saturday, May 12, 2007 NYT Archive Since 1981 Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Says The report reinforced longstanding suspicions that smugglers, insurgents and corrupt officials control significant parts of the country’s oil industry. Majority of Iraq Lawmakers Seek Timetable for U.S. Exit 5 G.I.’s Dead, 3 Missing After Attack in Iraq Go to Complete Coverage » Colleagues Cite Partisan Focus by Justice Official By the time Monica M. Goodling resigned, she had revamped personnel practices at the agency. Times Topics: U.S. Attorneys Giuliani Takes On G.O.P. Orthodoxy on Social Issues By MARC SANTORA and ADAM NAGOURNEY Rudolph W. Giuliani said that Republicans needed to be tolerant of dissenting views on abortion rights, gun control and gay rights to retain the White House. Giuliani in His Own Words Times Topics: Rudy Giuliani Today's column looks at the art of political damage control. The Caucus Blog » Romney Elaborates on Evolution Mitt Romney's position could put him at odds with some conservative Christians. Times Topics: Mitt Romney Vincent Laforet for The New York Times For New York Police Recruits, Lean Times Training to be a police officer often requires sacrifices, especially for single parents like Gladys Diaz, above. In New Hampshire, Soft Sell Eases Vaccine Fears The demand for a free vaccine against cervical cancer has been so high that physicians can’t satisfy all the requests. A Father’s Pain and an Empty Pizzeria By RICHARD G. JONES The father of one of the Fort Dix terror plot suspects says he has received daily death threats and lost customers. Clashes in Pakistan City as Ousted Judge Visits Armed groups clashed in Karachi today as the suspended chief justice arrived. Several people were reported killed. Russia Strikes Caspian Pipeline Deal U.S. Won&#8217;t Limit Detainees&#8217; Visits With Attorneys Pentagon Opens Inquiry of Troop-Support Group A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Bats: A Cabrera by Any Other Name The Caucus: Romney Elaborates on Evolution The Lede: The Day the Union Jack Got Beat Back The Lede: A Prominent Iraqi Blogger Flees Do U Txt Whl Drvng? Do you think it should be illegal to send text messages and drive? Calif. Island Survives Wildfire Scare 5 G.I.’s Dead, 3 Missing After Attack in Iraq No One Hurt in Blast at Spanish Opposition Office Kidnapped Aid Worker Returns to France A. O. Scott says “28 Weeks Later” is smart in its ideas and techniques. Don’t Mess With Grandma “Georgia Rule” takes its plot in surprising directions, writes A. O. Scott. Chasing an Old Flame The best jokes in “The Ex” leave scratches, writes Stephen Holden. Our Lives as Atoms What Gets Left Behind When they move, New Yorkers “forget” to pack all sorts of things, from television sets and air-conditioners to drugs and handcuffs. More in Real Estate Mortgage News and Rates 96 ROCKWELL PLACE - REAL CONDO LOFTS ... See All Featured Properties Place a Classified Ad » Certified? Yes. Satisfied? Not Always. Some car buyers find that certification doesn’t protect them. Submit photos and comment on other readers' cars. Also, keep track of events Go to Photo Gallery Place a Classified Ad » Post a job online More in Job Market Browse jobs by industry Browse jobs by location What to Do About Wanderlust Yes, there are sensible ways to look into a new career while keeping your old one. Place a Classified Ad » Find a Classifieds listing Home & Garden Directory Small Inns & Lodges Post a classifieds ad online Successful high-end design firm of museum quality collectibles seeks capital of $1.5mm to ......... Place a Classified Ad » SAVE 50% ON HOME DELIVERY Have The New York Times waiting for you, as little as $3.15 a week. N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani Earn 5.05% APY - Open a Complete Savings Acct from E*TRADE Bank Be Prepared. Fight ID Theft. Equifax Credit Watch™. Equifax.com Photos, fine art, books and more. Majority of Iraq Lawmakers Seek Timetable for U.S. Exit Amid Burst of Fervor, Pope Canonizes a Brazilian Cheney, on Carrier, Sends Warning to Iran Tears Are Mixed at Virginia Tech Commencement Suspects in Army Base Terror Plot Are Held Without Bail Spy Chief Backs Study of Impact of Warming Majority of Iraq Lawmakers Seek Timetable for U.S. Exit Spy Chief Backs Study of Impact of Warming Cheney, on Carrier, Sends Warning to Iran N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Suits Alleging Pay Violations at Restaurants Child Care Workers Get Right to Unionize Spy Chief Backs Study of Impact of Warming Purdue Will Reinvestigate Its Professor Who Claimed Desktop Fusion Doctor Grafted Skin to Aid Drug Dealers, U.S. Authorities Say Electric Pulses, Instead of Shocks, Can Help Heart Patients Passage of Drug Safety Bill Was Common Goal for Two Very Different Senators The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Burglary Charge Is Costly for Rutgers Class President Visit by Bush Tests Beliefs and Hospitality of Students at a Catholic College What Gets Left Behind Streetscapes | Readers’ Questions: How the West Side Was Won National Perspectives: Reviving a No Man’s Land Along the Tennessee River Hands on the Wheel, Not on the BlackBerry Keys Suspicious Trading on the Rise Hands on the Wheel, Not on the BlackBerry Keys What's Online: Online Ads vs. Privacy Google to Block Video Clips That Thais Say Insult King The Commissioner of Baseball Is on Deck Mariners 3, Yankees 0: In Rematch, Mariners Top Rasner and Yanks Mets 5, Brewers 4: Mets Finally Solve the Brewers’ Suppan Family Travel | Los Angeles: Adventures in Dreamland Family Travel | England: Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans Family Travel | In the Footsteps of Linnaeus: A Vast Garden of Knowledge, Still Blooming Today Dining & Wine &#x00bb; The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Latin Food at Yankee Stadium. Now, How About That! High & Low Finance: $350 Liquor? Just Spreading the Wealth Home & Garden &#x00bb; Aspiring to the Throne At Home With Charlie White: Order and Chaos in a Single Heartbeat In the Garden: It Takes a Hammer to Grow This Salad Fashion & Style &#x00bb; Clearly, Frankly, Unabashedly Disabled Girth and Nudity, a Pictorial Mission Modern Love: My First Lesson in Motherhood MDX: If It Looks Like a Duck... MKX: Beyond the Edge Wheelspin: In the Desert Near Dubai, an Oasis for Drag Racing Editorial: A Feeble Performance Op-Ed Contributor: Hepburn, Revisited Talking Again of Middle East Peace (5 Letters) Built to Last, and Lasting Getty Moves Closer to Returning an Ancient Statue to Italy Theater Review | Stairway to Paradise: Mining a Rich Vein of Sequins in Revues Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Movie Review | "Delta Farce": War on Terror Takes a Detour Film: A Loving Look at a Cinematic Tough Guy: Gangster, Hit Man, Gunslinger Theater Review | Stairway to Paradise: Mining a Rich Vein of Sequins in Revues Theater Review | 'Memory': From Wales, Tales of Berlin Then and Bethlehem Now Theater Review | 'Couples': Blissful and Benighted: Dispatches From the War of the Sexes 'God Is Not Great: How Religion Poisons Everything,' by Christopher Hitchens: In God, Distrust 'The Yiddish Policemen's Union,' by Michael Chabon: Cops and Rabbis 'Nixon and Kissinger: Partners in Power,' by Robert Dallek: The Odd Couple Week in Review &#x00bb; Nervous Energy: The (Not So) Eagerly Modern Saudi The In Crowd: Playing ‘Survivor’ in Washington Ideas & Trends: Rupert Murdoch, Once the Outsider The New Middle Ages: The Older-and-Wiser Hypothesis The New Middle Ages: A Longer, Better Life The New Middle Ages: Self-Nonmedication The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Bush in Accord With Democrats on Trade Deals President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds Role of F.B.I. Informer Draws Praise and Questions On Carrier in Gulf, Cheney Issues Warning to Iran Romney Works to Put Skeptics' Doubts to Rest Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics About the NYT Co. Jobs at the NYT Co. Add New York Times headlines to your site Add New York Times RSS Feeds Get home delivery of The Times for as low as $2.99 a week — that’s 50% off. The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/index.html?partner=rssnyt	The New York Times - Breaking News, World News & Multimedia Saturday, May 12, 2007 NYT Archive Since 1981 Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Says The report reinforced longstanding suspicions that smugglers, insurgents and corrupt officials control significant parts of the country’s oil industry. Majority of Iraq Lawmakers Seek Timetable for U.S. Exit 5 G.I.’s Dead, 3 Missing After Attack in Iraq Go to Complete Coverage » Colleagues Cite Partisan Focus by Justice Official By the time Monica M. Goodling resigned, she had revamped personnel practices at the agency. Times Topics: U.S. Attorneys Giuliani Takes On G.O.P. Orthodoxy on Social Issues By MARC SANTORA and ADAM NAGOURNEY Rudolph W. Giuliani said that Republicans needed to be tolerant of dissenting views on abortion rights, gun control and gay rights to retain the White House. Giuliani in His Own Words Times Topics: Rudy Giuliani Today's column looks at the art of political damage control. The Caucus Blog » Romney Elaborates on Evolution Mitt Romney's position could put him at odds with some conservative Christians. Times Topics: Mitt Romney Vincent Laforet for The New York Times For New York Police Recruits, Lean Times Training to be a police officer often requires sacrifices, especially for single parents like Gladys Diaz, above. In New Hampshire, Soft Sell Eases Vaccine Fears The demand for a free vaccine against cervical cancer has been so high that physicians can’t satisfy all the requests. A Father’s Pain and an Empty Pizzeria By RICHARD G. JONES The father of one of the Fort Dix terror plot suspects says he has received daily death threats and lost customers. Clashes in Pakistan City as Ousted Judge Visits Armed groups clashed in Karachi today as the suspended chief justice arrived. Several people were reported killed. Russia Strikes Caspian Pipeline Deal U.S. Won&#8217;t Limit Detainees&#8217; Visits With Attorneys Pentagon Opens Inquiry of Troop-Support Group A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Bats: A Cabrera by Any Other Name The Caucus: Romney Elaborates on Evolution The Lede: The Day the Union Jack Got Beat Back The Lede: A Prominent Iraqi Blogger Flees Do U Txt Whl Drvng? Do you think it should be illegal to send text messages and drive? Calif. Island Survives Wildfire Scare 5 G.I.’s Dead, 3 Missing After Attack in Iraq No One Hurt in Blast at Spanish Opposition Office Kidnapped Aid Worker Returns to France A. O. Scott says “28 Weeks Later” is smart in its ideas and techniques. Don’t Mess With Grandma “Georgia Rule” takes its plot in surprising directions, writes A. O. Scott. Chasing an Old Flame The best jokes in “The Ex” leave scratches, writes Stephen Holden. Our Lives as Atoms What Gets Left Behind When they move, New Yorkers “forget” to pack all sorts of things, from television sets and air-conditioners to drugs and handcuffs. More in Real Estate Mortgage News and Rates 96 ROCKWELL PLACE - REAL CONDO LOFTS ... See All Featured Properties Place a Classified Ad » Certified? Yes. Satisfied? Not Always. Some car buyers find that certification doesn’t protect them. Submit photos and comment on other readers' cars. Also, keep track of events Go to Photo Gallery Place a Classified Ad » Post a job online More in Job Market Browse jobs by industry Browse jobs by location What to Do About Wanderlust Yes, there are sensible ways to look into a new career while keeping your old one. Place a Classified Ad » Find a Classifieds listing Home & Garden Directory Small Inns & Lodges Post a classifieds ad online Successful high-end design firm of museum quality collectibles seeks capital of $1.5mm to ......... Place a Classified Ad » SAVE 50% ON HOME DELIVERY Have The New York Times waiting for you, as little as $3.15 a week. N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani Earn 5.05% APY - Open a Complete Savings Acct from E*TRADE Bank Be Prepared. Fight ID Theft. Equifax Credit Watch™. Equifax.com Photos, fine art, books and more. Majority of Iraq Lawmakers Seek Timetable for U.S. Exit Amid Burst of Fervor, Pope Canonizes a Brazilian Cheney, on Carrier, Sends Warning to Iran Tears Are Mixed at Virginia Tech Commencement Suspects in Army Base Terror Plot Are Held Without Bail Spy Chief Backs Study of Impact of Warming Majority of Iraq Lawmakers Seek Timetable for U.S. Exit Spy Chief Backs Study of Impact of Warming Cheney, on Carrier, Sends Warning to Iran N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Suits Alleging Pay Violations at Restaurants Child Care Workers Get Right to Unionize Spy Chief Backs Study of Impact of Warming Purdue Will Reinvestigate Its Professor Who Claimed Desktop Fusion Doctor Grafted Skin to Aid Drug Dealers, U.S. Authorities Say Electric Pulses, Instead of Shocks, Can Help Heart Patients Passage of Drug Safety Bill Was Common Goal for Two Very Different Senators The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Burglary Charge Is Costly for Rutgers Class President Visit by Bush Tests Beliefs and Hospitality of Students at a Catholic College What Gets Left Behind Streetscapes | Readers’ Questions: How the West Side Was Won National Perspectives: Reviving a No Man’s Land Along the Tennessee River Hands on the Wheel, Not on the BlackBerry Keys Suspicious Trading on the Rise Hands on the Wheel, Not on the BlackBerry Keys What's Online: Online Ads vs. Privacy Google to Block Video Clips That Thais Say Insult King The Commissioner of Baseball Is on Deck Mariners 3, Yankees 0: In Rematch, Mariners Top Rasner and Yanks Mets 5, Brewers 4: Mets Finally Solve the Brewers’ Suppan Family Travel | Los Angeles: Adventures in Dreamland Family Travel | England: Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans Family Travel | In the Footsteps of Linnaeus: A Vast Garden of Knowledge, Still Blooming Today Dining & Wine &#x00bb; The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Latin Food at Yankee Stadium. Now, How About That! High & Low Finance: $350 Liquor? Just Spreading the Wealth Home & Garden &#x00bb; Aspiring to the Throne At Home With Charlie White: Order and Chaos in a Single Heartbeat In the Garden: It Takes a Hammer to Grow This Salad Fashion & Style &#x00bb; Clearly, Frankly, Unabashedly Disabled Girth and Nudity, a Pictorial Mission Modern Love: My First Lesson in Motherhood MDX: If It Looks Like a Duck... MKX: Beyond the Edge Wheelspin: In the Desert Near Dubai, an Oasis for Drag Racing Editorial: A Feeble Performance Op-Ed Contributor: Hepburn, Revisited Talking Again of Middle East Peace (5 Letters) Built to Last, and Lasting Getty Moves Closer to Returning an Ancient Statue to Italy Theater Review | Stairway to Paradise: Mining a Rich Vein of Sequins in Revues Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Movie Review | "Delta Farce": War on Terror Takes a Detour Film: A Loving Look at a Cinematic Tough Guy: Gangster, Hit Man, Gunslinger Theater Review | Stairway to Paradise: Mining a Rich Vein of Sequins in Revues Theater Review | 'Memory': From Wales, Tales of Berlin Then and Bethlehem Now Theater Review | 'Couples': Blissful and Benighted: Dispatches From the War of the Sexes 'God Is Not Great: How Religion Poisons Everything,' by Christopher Hitchens: In God, Distrust 'The Yiddish Policemen's Union,' by Michael Chabon: Cops and Rabbis 'Nixon and Kissinger: Partners in Power,' by Robert Dallek: The Odd Couple Week in Review &#x00bb; Nervous Energy: The (Not So) Eagerly Modern Saudi The In Crowd: Playing ‘Survivor’ in Washington Ideas & Trends: Rupert Murdoch, Once the Outsider The New Middle Ages: The Older-and-Wiser Hypothesis The New Middle Ages: A Longer, Better Life The New Middle Ages: Self-Nonmedication The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Bush in Accord With Democrats on Trade Deals President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds Role of F.B.I. Informer Draws Praise and Questions On Carrier in Gulf, Cheney Issues Warning to Iran Romney Works to Put Skeptics' Doubts to Rest Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics About the NYT Co. Jobs at the NYT Co. Add New York Times headlines to your site Add New York Times RSS Feeds Get home delivery of The Times for as low as $2.99 a week — that’s 50% off. The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/12/nyregion/12father.html	A Father&#8217;s Pain and an Empty Pizzeria - New York Times A Father’s Pain and an Empty Pizzeria Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 12, 2007 COOKSTOWN, N.J., May 11 &#151; After the third death threat of the day, Muslim Tatar decided on Thursday to telephone a sign maker. He had an assistant dictate precisely how he wanted the big new banners to read: &#8220;Under New Management.&#8221; Not that Mr. Tatar was certain he would be able to sell his beloved and suddenly beleaguered pizzeria here, Super Mario&#8217;s. Not that he was even sure he wanted to. But he had to do something about the empty tables, the car honks, the nasty taunts. &#8220;Now, I am target,&#8221; Mr. Tatar said, standing in the deserted restaurant on Thursday afternoon. &#8220;How do I know some kid won&#8217;t come and. ...&#8221; Instead of finishing the sentence, he raised the thumb of his right hand and jabbed his forefinger, riddling the air with invisible bullets. Everything has changed for Mr. Tatar since the authorities arrested his 23-year-old son, Serdar, along with five others they described as radical Islamists, on charges of plotting to attack the Fort Dix military reservation, and said that Super Mario&#8217;s was where they obtained a map of the base. Federal prosecutors said there were no indications that the elder Mr. Tatar had any idea about the plot, and the father said he and his son had grown largely estranged in recent years as Serdar&#8217;s religious zealotry increased. For two days after the arrests, Mr. Tatar did not sleep, he said, as he at once worried about his son and questioned his innocence, all the while second-guessing himself as a parent. Asked on Thursday how he was coping, an anguished Mr. Tatar rubbed his eyes and ran his hands through his silver hair before saying: &#8220;You have kids? You put yourself in my shoes.&#8221; Mr. Tatar, 54, came to New Jersey from Ankara, Turkey, in 1992, and worked his way up from dishwasher. Five years ago he had saved enough to buy the restaurant, where four trophies for the military softball teams he has sponsored rest on a windowsill, and a sign by the cash register advertises free newborn kittens. Suddenly, he faces two nightmares. There is the possibility of losing his son to a life sentence in prison, and of seeing his livelihood vanish in blame for the terror plot &#151; blame that by all accounts appears to be misplaced. Since Tuesday, when prosecutors first outlined the case, much of the public attention has focused on the families of the other suspects, particularly of the three ethnic Albanian brothers and a brother-in-law based in Cherry Hill, N.J. But because Mr. Tatar lives and works within minutes of Fort Dix, he has more directly borne the public rage. He has heard passers-by yell expletives at him and watched regular customers sneer as they pass the store without stopping. He has worried about his wife, who was on vacation in Turkey when their son was arrested, and is being treated for what he described as a nervous breakdown upon hearing the news. He has spent much of the week shooing reporters away from the restaurant rather than serving burgers and calzones to customers as business has tapered off like a fading heartbeat: little, less, nothing. The past four days have been an arc of emotion. He has expressed skepticism about the government charges against his son. He has been confused about whom to trust. He has been angry &#151; at the anger directed his way. And in his worst moments, he has suffered bouts of abject despair. &#8220;Somebody shoot me now,&#8221; he said, sitting by the window of his empty restaurant during one particularly bleak period Thursday afternoon. &#8220;I don&#8217;t care about business. I don&#8217;t care about nothing. Come shoot me now.&#8221; Mr. Tatar&#8217;s story echoes the oft-repeated immigrant tale. He brought his wife and three young children to Cherry Hill, where Serdar went to the same high school as several of the men accused of being his co-conspirators. He began washing dishes at an Italian restaurant there, and began dreaming at the same time. He watched the chefs prepare pasta and pizza. In 2002, he bought Super Mario&#8217;s, about three miles from the entrance to Fort Dix. Next Article in New York Region (1 of 16) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Threats and Threatening Messages Next Article in New York Region (1 of 16) &#x00bb; The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/12/nyregion/12father.html	A Father&#8217;s Pain and an Empty Pizzeria - New York Times A Father’s Pain and an Empty Pizzeria Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 12, 2007 COOKSTOWN, N.J., May 11 &#151; After the third death threat of the day, Muslim Tatar decided on Thursday to telephone a sign maker. He had an assistant dictate precisely how he wanted the big new banners to read: &#8220;Under New Management.&#8221; Not that Mr. Tatar was certain he would be able to sell his beloved and suddenly beleaguered pizzeria here, Super Mario&#8217;s. Not that he was even sure he wanted to. But he had to do something about the empty tables, the car honks, the nasty taunts. &#8220;Now, I am target,&#8221; Mr. Tatar said, standing in the deserted restaurant on Thursday afternoon. &#8220;How do I know some kid won&#8217;t come and. ...&#8221; Instead of finishing the sentence, he raised the thumb of his right hand and jabbed his forefinger, riddling the air with invisible bullets. Everything has changed for Mr. Tatar since the authorities arrested his 23-year-old son, Serdar, along with five others they described as radical Islamists, on charges of plotting to attack the Fort Dix military reservation, and said that Super Mario&#8217;s was where they obtained a map of the base. Federal prosecutors said there were no indications that the elder Mr. Tatar had any idea about the plot, and the father said he and his son had grown largely estranged in recent years as Serdar&#8217;s religious zealotry increased. For two days after the arrests, Mr. Tatar did not sleep, he said, as he at once worried about his son and questioned his innocence, all the while second-guessing himself as a parent. Asked on Thursday how he was coping, an anguished Mr. Tatar rubbed his eyes and ran his hands through his silver hair before saying: &#8220;You have kids? You put yourself in my shoes.&#8221; Mr. Tatar, 54, came to New Jersey from Ankara, Turkey, in 1992, and worked his way up from dishwasher. Five years ago he had saved enough to buy the restaurant, where four trophies for the military softball teams he has sponsored rest on a windowsill, and a sign by the cash register advertises free newborn kittens. Suddenly, he faces two nightmares. There is the possibility of losing his son to a life sentence in prison, and of seeing his livelihood vanish in blame for the terror plot &#151; blame that by all accounts appears to be misplaced. Since Tuesday, when prosecutors first outlined the case, much of the public attention has focused on the families of the other suspects, particularly of the three ethnic Albanian brothers and a brother-in-law based in Cherry Hill, N.J. But because Mr. Tatar lives and works within minutes of Fort Dix, he has more directly borne the public rage. He has heard passers-by yell expletives at him and watched regular customers sneer as they pass the store without stopping. He has worried about his wife, who was on vacation in Turkey when their son was arrested, and is being treated for what he described as a nervous breakdown upon hearing the news. He has spent much of the week shooing reporters away from the restaurant rather than serving burgers and calzones to customers as business has tapered off like a fading heartbeat: little, less, nothing. The past four days have been an arc of emotion. He has expressed skepticism about the government charges against his son. He has been confused about whom to trust. He has been angry &#151; at the anger directed his way. And in his worst moments, he has suffered bouts of abject despair. &#8220;Somebody shoot me now,&#8221; he said, sitting by the window of his empty restaurant during one particularly bleak period Thursday afternoon. &#8220;I don&#8217;t care about business. I don&#8217;t care about nothing. Come shoot me now.&#8221; Mr. Tatar&#8217;s story echoes the oft-repeated immigrant tale. He brought his wife and three young children to Cherry Hill, where Serdar went to the same high school as several of the men accused of being his co-conspirators. He began washing dishes at an Italian restaurant there, and began dreaming at the same time. He watched the chefs prepare pasta and pizza. In 2002, he bought Super Mario&#8217;s, about three miles from the entrance to Fort Dix. Next Article in New York Region (1 of 16) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Threats and Threatening Messages Next Article in New York Region (1 of 16) &#x00bb; The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/12/washington/12gitmo.html	U.S. Won&#8217;t Limit Detainees&#8217; Visits With Attorneys - New York Times U.S. Won&#8217;t Limit Detainees&#8217; Visits With Attorneys Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 12, 2007 The Justice Department yesterday withdrew one of its proposals to tighten restrictions on lawyers representing detainees at , but said it would continue to press a federal appeals court for other limitations on the lawyers. In a court filing yesterday morning, department lawyers said they were no longer asking the appeals court in Washington to limit the lawyers to three visits with detainees at the Guant&#225;namo naval base, where about 380 men are now held. A series of department proposals to curtail detainees&#8217; lawyers drew wide attention and was criticized by legal groups and in Congress, with opponents saying the Bush administration was denying detainees the most rudimentary tools to challenge their confinement. &#8220;After further consideration of this issue by the Department of Defense,&#8221; the tersely worded filing said, the government &#8220;is no longer seeking to incorporate a three-visit threshold for the number of counsel visits.&#8221; But the filing made clear that the administration would continue to seek other limitations on the lawyers. These would include requests to permit only one visit for a detainee to authorize a lawyer to handle his case; to screen mail sent by lawyers; and to allow government officials, on their own, to deny lawyers access to secret evidence used against detainees by military panels. The filing came days before arguments are scheduled in a case that has become one of the main battlegrounds in the legal struggle over the administration&#8217;s detention policies. In that case, eight detainees have challenged the findings that they are properly being held as enemy combatants. Arguments are scheduled for Tuesday in the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit. The proposal that would have cut off lawyers&#8217; access to their clients had been controversial, partly because it came as many detainees were resisting cooperating with their lawyers, adding a new layer of complexity to the legal battle over Guant&#225;namo. Some critics said that yesterday&#8217;s government action was a strategic retreat on the proposal that had drawn the most fire, and that the remaining proposed restrictions would damage the relationships between lawyers and detainees. &#8220;This is window dressing,&#8221; said Vincent Warren, the executive director of the Center for Constitutional Rights, an advocacy group that has coordinated the detainees&#8217; lawyers. &#8220;The remaining restrictions &#151; which include monitoring attorney-client mail &#151; makes meaningful representation impossible,&#8221; Mr. Warren said. Barry M. Kamins, president of the New York City Bar Association and one of the most outspoken critics of the department proposals, said yesterday&#8217;s action would not win over lawyers&#8217; groups that had opposed the proposals. &#8220;The easing of this one rule barely begins to address the egregious violations of the attorney-client relationship,&#8221; Mr. Kamins said. But some supporters of the department&#8217;s proposal said critics had not paid adequate attention to the government&#8217;s accusations that the restrictions were necessary because the detainees&#8217; lawyers had caused unrest at Guant&#225;namo by providing the detainees information about terrorist attacks and other events. &#8220;There are real national security issues here,&#8221; said Gregory S. McNeal, a professor at the Dickinson School of Law who has been a consultant to war-crimes prosecutors at Guant&#225;namo. One new rule the Justice Department is still proposing would permit government officials to unilaterally deny the lawyers access to any secret evidence used by military panels to determine that their clients were enemy combatants, which would be a reversal of existing procedures. Another proposal declares that if officials conclude that detainees&#8217; lawyers violate any of the rules governing their actions, the government &#8220;may bar counsel from visiting the U.S. Naval Base at Guant&#225;namo Bay, Cuba&#8221; without any court authorization. Under the current practice, lawyers said, disputes have been addressed by a federal magistrate. Some critics of the administration said they saw the department&#8217;s decision as the most recent example of a pattern of withdrawing proposals that draw extensive criticism just before courts are called on to rule. In their original request for the new rules, the department&#8217;s lawyers had said commanders at Guant&#225;namo had called for the restrictions because of &#8220;intractable problems and threats to security at Guant&#225;namo&#8221; that they blamed on civilian lawyers for detainees. But in an interview reported in The Miami Herald last week, Rear Adm. Harry B. Harris, the commander at Guant&#225;namo, was quoted as saying that the officers had changed their view. Admiral Harris said that the remarks cited by the department had been made last summer after a riot and the suicides of three detainees, and that the circumstances were now less turbulent. Yesterday&#8217;s court filing included a two-page affidavit dated Thursday, in which Admiral Harris said that the detention facility &#8220;has re-evaluated its requirements to ensure that its procedures concerning attorney visitation and related matters are not more stringent than necessary.&#8221; He declined an interview request yesterday. A Pentagon spokesman, Cmdr. Jeffrey D. Gordon, said the remaining restrictions the government was seeking in court &#8220;remain warranted and appropriate in light of operations at Guant&#225;namo.&#8221; A spokesman for the department, Erik Ablin, said that in the court case &#8220;the position of the United States is driven by base security operational and resource concerns.&#8221; More Articles in Washington &#x00bb; Want to save this article?  Download the Times File Toolbar - get it now with TimesSelect. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. U.S. ASKS COURT TO LIMIT LAWYERS AT GUANTÃNAMO New to Pentagon, Gates Argued For Closing GuantÃ¡namo Prison COURT ENDORSES CURBS ON APPEAL BY U.S. DETAINEES Detainees' Access to Lawyers Is Security Risk, C.I.A. Says Guantanamo Bay Naval Base (Cuba) Freedom and Human Rights More Articles in Washington &#x00bb; The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/12/washington/12gitmo.html	U.S. Won&#8217;t Limit Detainees&#8217; Visits With Attorneys - New York Times U.S. Won&#8217;t Limit Detainees&#8217; Visits With Attorneys Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 12, 2007 The Justice Department yesterday withdrew one of its proposals to tighten restrictions on lawyers representing detainees at , but said it would continue to press a federal appeals court for other limitations on the lawyers. In a court filing yesterday morning, department lawyers said they were no longer asking the appeals court in Washington to limit the lawyers to three visits with detainees at the Guant&#225;namo naval base, where about 380 men are now held. A series of department proposals to curtail detainees&#8217; lawyers drew wide attention and was criticized by legal groups and in Congress, with opponents saying the Bush administration was denying detainees the most rudimentary tools to challenge their confinement. &#8220;After further consideration of this issue by the Department of Defense,&#8221; the tersely worded filing said, the government &#8220;is no longer seeking to incorporate a three-visit threshold for the number of counsel visits.&#8221; But the filing made clear that the administration would continue to seek other limitations on the lawyers. These would include requests to permit only one visit for a detainee to authorize a lawyer to handle his case; to screen mail sent by lawyers; and to allow government officials, on their own, to deny lawyers access to secret evidence used against detainees by military panels. The filing came days before arguments are scheduled in a case that has become one of the main battlegrounds in the legal struggle over the administration&#8217;s detention policies. In that case, eight detainees have challenged the findings that they are properly being held as enemy combatants. Arguments are scheduled for Tuesday in the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit. The proposal that would have cut off lawyers&#8217; access to their clients had been controversial, partly because it came as many detainees were resisting cooperating with their lawyers, adding a new layer of complexity to the legal battle over Guant&#225;namo. Some critics said that yesterday&#8217;s government action was a strategic retreat on the proposal that had drawn the most fire, and that the remaining proposed restrictions would damage the relationships between lawyers and detainees. &#8220;This is window dressing,&#8221; said Vincent Warren, the executive director of the Center for Constitutional Rights, an advocacy group that has coordinated the detainees&#8217; lawyers. &#8220;The remaining restrictions &#151; which include monitoring attorney-client mail &#151; makes meaningful representation impossible,&#8221; Mr. Warren said. Barry M. Kamins, president of the New York City Bar Association and one of the most outspoken critics of the department proposals, said yesterday&#8217;s action would not win over lawyers&#8217; groups that had opposed the proposals. &#8220;The easing of this one rule barely begins to address the egregious violations of the attorney-client relationship,&#8221; Mr. Kamins said. But some supporters of the department&#8217;s proposal said critics had not paid adequate attention to the government&#8217;s accusations that the restrictions were necessary because the detainees&#8217; lawyers had caused unrest at Guant&#225;namo by providing the detainees information about terrorist attacks and other events. &#8220;There are real national security issues here,&#8221; said Gregory S. McNeal, a professor at the Dickinson School of Law who has been a consultant to war-crimes prosecutors at Guant&#225;namo. One new rule the Justice Department is still proposing would permit government officials to unilaterally deny the lawyers access to any secret evidence used by military panels to determine that their clients were enemy combatants, which would be a reversal of existing procedures. Another proposal declares that if officials conclude that detainees&#8217; lawyers violate any of the rules governing their actions, the government &#8220;may bar counsel from visiting the U.S. Naval Base at Guant&#225;namo Bay, Cuba&#8221; without any court authorization. Under the current practice, lawyers said, disputes have been addressed by a federal magistrate. Some critics of the administration said they saw the department&#8217;s decision as the most recent example of a pattern of withdrawing proposals that draw extensive criticism just before courts are called on to rule. In their original request for the new rules, the department&#8217;s lawyers had said commanders at Guant&#225;namo had called for the restrictions because of &#8220;intractable problems and threats to security at Guant&#225;namo&#8221; that they blamed on civilian lawyers for detainees. But in an interview reported in The Miami Herald last week, Rear Adm. Harry B. Harris, the commander at Guant&#225;namo, was quoted as saying that the officers had changed their view. Admiral Harris said that the remarks cited by the department had been made last summer after a riot and the suicides of three detainees, and that the circumstances were now less turbulent. Yesterday&#8217;s court filing included a two-page affidavit dated Thursday, in which Admiral Harris said that the detention facility &#8220;has re-evaluated its requirements to ensure that its procedures concerning attorney visitation and related matters are not more stringent than necessary.&#8221; He declined an interview request yesterday. A Pentagon spokesman, Cmdr. Jeffrey D. Gordon, said the remaining restrictions the government was seeking in court &#8220;remain warranted and appropriate in light of operations at Guant&#225;namo.&#8221; A spokesman for the department, Erik Ablin, said that in the court case &#8220;the position of the United States is driven by base security operational and resource concerns.&#8221; More Articles in Washington &#x00bb; Want to save this article?  Download the Times File Toolbar - get it now with TimesSelect. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. U.S. ASKS COURT TO LIMIT LAWYERS AT GUANTÃNAMO New to Pentagon, Gates Argued For Closing GuantÃ¡namo Prison COURT ENDORSES CURBS ON APPEAL BY U.S. DETAINEES Detainees' Access to Lawyers Is Security Risk, C.I.A. Says Guantanamo Bay Naval Base (Cuba) Freedom and Human Rights More Articles in Washington &#x00bb; The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/12/world/middleeast/12oil.html	Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Says - New York Times Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Says Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 12, 2007 Between 100,000 and 300,000 barrels a day of ’s declared oil production over the past four years is unaccounted for and could have been siphoned off through corruption or smuggling, according to a draft American government report. Skip to next paragraph The Reach of War Go to Complete Coverage » Using an average of $50 a barrel, the report said the discrepancy was valued at $5 million to $15 million daily. The report does not give a final conclusion on what happened to the missing fraction of the roughly two million barrels pumped by Iraq each day, but the findings are sure to reinforce longstanding suspicions that smugglers, insurgents and corrupt officials control significant parts of the country’s oil industry. The report also covered alternative explanations for the billions of dollars worth of discrepancies, including the possibility that Iraq has been consistently overstating its oil production. Iraq and the State Department, which reports the numbers, have been under relentless pressure to show tangible progress in Iraq by raising production levels, which have languished well below the United States goal of three million barrels a day. Virtually the entire economy of Iraq is dependent on oil revenues. The draft report, expected to be released within the next week, was prepared by the United States with the help of government energy analysts, and was provided to The New York Times by a separate government office that received a review copy. The accountability office declined to provide a copy or to discuss the draft. Paul Anderson, a spokesman for the office, said only that “we don’t discuss draft reports.” But a State Department official who works on energy issues said that there were several possible explanations for the discrepancy, including the loss of oil through sabotage of pipelines and inaccurate reporting of production in southern Iraq, where engineers may not properly account for water that is pumped along with oil in the fields there. “It could also be theft,” the official said, with suspicion falling primarily on Shiite militias in the south. “Crude oil is not as lucrative in the region as refined products, but we’re not ruling that out either.” Iraqi and American officials have previously said that smuggling of refined products like gasoline and kerosene is probably costing Iraq billions of dollars a year in lost revenues. The smuggling of those products is particularly feared because officials believe that a large fraction of the proceeds go to insurgent groups. Crude oil is much more difficult to smuggle because it must be shipped to refineries and turned into the more valuable refined products before it can be sold on the market. The Shiite militia groups hold sway around the rich oil fields of southern Iraq, which dominate the country’s oil production, the State Department official said. For that reason, he said, the Shiite militias are more likely to be involved in theft there than the largely Sunni insurgents, who are believed to benefit mostly from smuggling refined products in the north. In the south, the official said, “There is not an issue of insurgency, per se, but it could be funding Shia factions, and that could very well be true.” “That would be a concern if they were using smuggling money to blow up American soldiers or kill Sunnis or do anything that could harm the unity of the country,” the official said. The report by the accountability office is the most comprehensive look yet at faltering American efforts to rebuild Iraq’s oil and electricity sectors. For the analysis of Iraq’s oil production, the accountability office called upon experts at the Energy Information Administration within the United States Department of Energy , which has long experience in analyzing oil production and exports worldwide. Erik Kreil, an oil expert at the information administration who is familiar with the analysis, said a review of industry figures around the world — exports, refinery figures and other measures — could not account for all the oil that Iraq says it is producing. The administration also took into account how much crude oil was consumed internally, to do things like fuel Iraqi power plants and refine into gasoline and other products. When all those uses of the oil were taken into consideration, Mr. Kreil said, Iraq’s stated production figures did not add up. “Either they’re producing less, or they’re producing what they say and the difference is completely unaccounted for in any of the places we think it should go,” Mr. Kreil said. “Either it’s overly optimistic, or it’s unaccounted for.” More Articles in International &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil THE REACH OF WAR; A DRAFT OIL BILL STIRS OPPOSITION FROM IRAQI BLOCS THE REACH OF WAR; U.S. Commander Says Fall Pullback in Iraq Would Lead to More Sectarian Killings OPEC Says It Will Not Increase Oil Production to Meet Rising Demand Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline More Articles in International &#x00bb; The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics Adirondacks Open Camp, 1903 N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/12/world/middleeast/12oil.html	Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Says - New York Times Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Says Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 12, 2007 Between 100,000 and 300,000 barrels a day of ’s declared oil production over the past four years is unaccounted for and could have been siphoned off through corruption or smuggling, according to a draft American government report. Skip to next paragraph The Reach of War Go to Complete Coverage » Using an average of $50 a barrel, the report said the discrepancy was valued at $5 million to $15 million daily. The report does not give a final conclusion on what happened to the missing fraction of the roughly two million barrels pumped by Iraq each day, but the findings are sure to reinforce longstanding suspicions that smugglers, insurgents and corrupt officials control significant parts of the country’s oil industry. The report also covered alternative explanations for the billions of dollars worth of discrepancies, including the possibility that Iraq has been consistently overstating its oil production. Iraq and the State Department, which reports the numbers, have been under relentless pressure to show tangible progress in Iraq by raising production levels, which have languished well below the United States goal of three million barrels a day. Virtually the entire economy of Iraq is dependent on oil revenues. The draft report, expected to be released within the next week, was prepared by the United States with the help of government energy analysts, and was provided to The New York Times by a separate government office that received a review copy. The accountability office declined to provide a copy or to discuss the draft. Paul Anderson, a spokesman for the office, said only that “we don’t discuss draft reports.” But a State Department official who works on energy issues said that there were several possible explanations for the discrepancy, including the loss of oil through sabotage of pipelines and inaccurate reporting of production in southern Iraq, where engineers may not properly account for water that is pumped along with oil in the fields there. “It could also be theft,” the official said, with suspicion falling primarily on Shiite militias in the south. “Crude oil is not as lucrative in the region as refined products, but we’re not ruling that out either.” Iraqi and American officials have previously said that smuggling of refined products like gasoline and kerosene is probably costing Iraq billions of dollars a year in lost revenues. The smuggling of those products is particularly feared because officials believe that a large fraction of the proceeds go to insurgent groups. Crude oil is much more difficult to smuggle because it must be shipped to refineries and turned into the more valuable refined products before it can be sold on the market. The Shiite militia groups hold sway around the rich oil fields of southern Iraq, which dominate the country’s oil production, the State Department official said. For that reason, he said, the Shiite militias are more likely to be involved in theft there than the largely Sunni insurgents, who are believed to benefit mostly from smuggling refined products in the north. In the south, the official said, “There is not an issue of insurgency, per se, but it could be funding Shia factions, and that could very well be true.” “That would be a concern if they were using smuggling money to blow up American soldiers or kill Sunnis or do anything that could harm the unity of the country,” the official said. The report by the accountability office is the most comprehensive look yet at faltering American efforts to rebuild Iraq’s oil and electricity sectors. For the analysis of Iraq’s oil production, the accountability office called upon experts at the Energy Information Administration within the United States Department of Energy , which has long experience in analyzing oil production and exports worldwide. Erik Kreil, an oil expert at the information administration who is familiar with the analysis, said a review of industry figures around the world — exports, refinery figures and other measures — could not account for all the oil that Iraq says it is producing. The administration also took into account how much crude oil was consumed internally, to do things like fuel Iraqi power plants and refine into gasoline and other products. When all those uses of the oil were taken into consideration, Mr. Kreil said, Iraq’s stated production figures did not add up. “Either they’re producing less, or they’re producing what they say and the difference is completely unaccounted for in any of the places we think it should go,” Mr. Kreil said. “Either it’s overly optimistic, or it’s unaccounted for.” More Articles in International &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil THE REACH OF WAR; A DRAFT OIL BILL STIRS OPPOSITION FROM IRAQI BLOCS THE REACH OF WAR; U.S. Commander Says Fall Pullback in Iraq Would Lead to More Sectarian Killings OPEC Says It Will Not Increase Oil Production to Meet Rising Demand Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline More Articles in International &#x00bb; The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics Adirondacks Open Camp, 1903 N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/12/us/politics/12rudy.html	Giuliani Takes On G.O.P. Orthodoxy on Social Issues - New York Times Giuliani Takes On G.O.P. Orthodoxy on Social Issues Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 12, 2007 HOUSTON, May 11 — directly challenged Republican orthodoxy on Friday, asserting that his support for rights, gun control and gay rights should not disqualify him from winning the party’s presidential nomination. Skip to next paragraph Rudolph W. Giuliani picking up a child wearing an &#147;I Love NY&#148; T-shirt on Friday at Houston Baptist College. In a speech, Mr. Giuliani conceded that his views on social questions were out of line with those of many voters. Rudolph W. Giuliani: In His Own Words The latest political news from around the nation. needed to be tolerant of dissenting views on those issues if they wanted to retain the White House. In a forceful summation of the substantive and political case for his candidacy, delivered to a conservative audience at Houston Baptist College, Mr. Giuliani, the former mayor of New York, acknowledged that his views on social issues were out of line with those of many Republican primary voters. But he argued that there were even greater matters at stake in the election, starting with which party would better protect the nation from terrorism. Mr. Giuliani suggested that his record in New York, which included leading the city after the attacks of Sept. 11 and overseeing a decline in violent crime during his eight years in office, made him the most electable of the Republican candidates, no matter his stand on social issues like abortion. “If we don’t find a way of uniting around broad principles that will appeal to a large segment of this country, if we can’t figure that out, we are going to lose this election,” he said. The speech by Mr. Giuliani reflected a decision — other campaigns suggested “gamble” might be a better word — to address head-on a fundamental obstacle to his winning the nomination: his long history as a moderate Northeast Republican in a party increasingly dominated by Southern and Midwestern conservatives. As such, it loomed as a potentially important moment in the party’s efforts to decide how to compete against the Democrats in 2008 and what it should stand for in a post-Bush era. “The mere fact that I am standing here running for president of the United States with the views that I have, that are different in some respects on some of these issues, shows that we much more adequately represent the length and breadth and the opinions of America than the other party does,” Mr. Giuliani said. Since the late 1970s, national Republican candidates have increasingly taken conservative positions on social issues. In that sense, Mr. Giuliani is bucking what many members of his party consider to be a powerful trend and confronting what is often assumed to be a wall of opposition among Christian conservatives, among other constituencies that play influential roles in the nominating process. Both his leading opponents, Senator , the former governor of Massachusetts, oppose abortion rights. Mr. McCain regularly refers to his lifelong opposition to abortion rights. Mr. Romney also regularly talks about his opposition, though he is perhaps more politically constrained because he supported abortion rights through much of his political career in Massachusetts. Tony Perkins, president of the Family Research Council, a group of conservative Christians, dismissed Mr. Giuliani’s speech in an e-mail message he sent to supporters Friday afternoon. “When people hear Rudy Giuliani speak about taxpayer-funded abortions, gay ‘rights’ and gun control, they don’t hear a choice, they hear an echo of ,” Mr. Perkins wrote. Mr. Giuliani’s speech came a week after he gave a convoluted answer to questions at a debate about his views on abortion rights, setting off criticism by conservative groups. On Friday, he offered a lengthy explanation of his views on abortion, saying that he personally opposed it but that government should not prohibit it. He acknowledged that the views differed from those of many in the audience. “Where people of good faith, people who are equally decent, equally moral and equally religious, when they come to different conclusions about this, about something so very very personal, I believe you have to respect their viewpoint,” he said. “You give them a level of choice here.” Mr. Giuliani asserted that his differences with his audience on gun control and gay rights were probably less sharp. He defended his advocacy for tough gun control measures while he was mayor of New York, but said that was central to his strategy to reduce crime in the city. He described himself as an advocate of a view of the Second Amendment that holds that it permits citizens to bear arms. Mr. Giuliani said he supported allowing gay men and lesbians to enter into domestic partnerships but opposed allowing them to marry. Marc Santora reported from Houston, and Adam Nagourney from Washington. More Articles in National &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. POLITICAL MEMO; Can the G.O.P. Accept Giuliani&#8217;s Abortion Stance? Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights ON THE RECORD; The G.O.P., Abortion and 2008 Abortion Rises Anew for Giuliani Presidential Election of 2008 More Articles in National &#x00bb; The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/12/us/politics/12rudy.html	Giuliani Takes On G.O.P. Orthodoxy on Social Issues - New York Times Giuliani Takes On G.O.P. Orthodoxy on Social Issues Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 12, 2007 HOUSTON, May 11 — directly challenged Republican orthodoxy on Friday, asserting that his support for rights, gun control and gay rights should not disqualify him from winning the party’s presidential nomination. Skip to next paragraph Rudolph W. Giuliani picking up a child wearing an &#147;I Love NY&#148; T-shirt on Friday at Houston Baptist College. In a speech, Mr. Giuliani conceded that his views on social questions were out of line with those of many voters. Rudolph W. Giuliani: In His Own Words The latest political news from around the nation. needed to be tolerant of dissenting views on those issues if they wanted to retain the White House. In a forceful summation of the substantive and political case for his candidacy, delivered to a conservative audience at Houston Baptist College, Mr. Giuliani, the former mayor of New York, acknowledged that his views on social issues were out of line with those of many Republican primary voters. But he argued that there were even greater matters at stake in the election, starting with which party would better protect the nation from terrorism. Mr. Giuliani suggested that his record in New York, which included leading the city after the attacks of Sept. 11 and overseeing a decline in violent crime during his eight years in office, made him the most electable of the Republican candidates, no matter his stand on social issues like abortion. “If we don’t find a way of uniting around broad principles that will appeal to a large segment of this country, if we can’t figure that out, we are going to lose this election,” he said. The speech by Mr. Giuliani reflected a decision — other campaigns suggested “gamble” might be a better word — to address head-on a fundamental obstacle to his winning the nomination: his long history as a moderate Northeast Republican in a party increasingly dominated by Southern and Midwestern conservatives. As such, it loomed as a potentially important moment in the party’s efforts to decide how to compete against the Democrats in 2008 and what it should stand for in a post-Bush era. “The mere fact that I am standing here running for president of the United States with the views that I have, that are different in some respects on some of these issues, shows that we much more adequately represent the length and breadth and the opinions of America than the other party does,” Mr. Giuliani said. Since the late 1970s, national Republican candidates have increasingly taken conservative positions on social issues. In that sense, Mr. Giuliani is bucking what many members of his party consider to be a powerful trend and confronting what is often assumed to be a wall of opposition among Christian conservatives, among other constituencies that play influential roles in the nominating process. Both his leading opponents, Senator , the former governor of Massachusetts, oppose abortion rights. Mr. McCain regularly refers to his lifelong opposition to abortion rights. Mr. Romney also regularly talks about his opposition, though he is perhaps more politically constrained because he supported abortion rights through much of his political career in Massachusetts. Tony Perkins, president of the Family Research Council, a group of conservative Christians, dismissed Mr. Giuliani’s speech in an e-mail message he sent to supporters Friday afternoon. “When people hear Rudy Giuliani speak about taxpayer-funded abortions, gay ‘rights’ and gun control, they don’t hear a choice, they hear an echo of ,” Mr. Perkins wrote. Mr. Giuliani’s speech came a week after he gave a convoluted answer to questions at a debate about his views on abortion rights, setting off criticism by conservative groups. On Friday, he offered a lengthy explanation of his views on abortion, saying that he personally opposed it but that government should not prohibit it. He acknowledged that the views differed from those of many in the audience. “Where people of good faith, people who are equally decent, equally moral and equally religious, when they come to different conclusions about this, about something so very very personal, I believe you have to respect their viewpoint,” he said. “You give them a level of choice here.” Mr. Giuliani asserted that his differences with his audience on gun control and gay rights were probably less sharp. He defended his advocacy for tough gun control measures while he was mayor of New York, but said that was central to his strategy to reduce crime in the city. He described himself as an advocate of a view of the Second Amendment that holds that it permits citizens to bear arms. Mr. Giuliani said he supported allowing gay men and lesbians to enter into domestic partnerships but opposed allowing them to marry. Marc Santora reported from Houston, and Adam Nagourney from Washington. More Articles in National &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. POLITICAL MEMO; Can the G.O.P. Accept Giuliani&#8217;s Abortion Stance? Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights ON THE RECORD; The G.O.P., Abortion and 2008 Abortion Rises Anew for Giuliani Presidential Election of 2008 More Articles in National &#x00bb; The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/12/nyregion/12recruits.html	Recruits Say Joining Police Force Is a Test of Wills and Wallets - New York Times Recruits Say Joining Police Force Is a Test of Wills and Wallets Vincent Laforet for The New York Times Training to be a New York City police officer often requires personal sacrifices, especially for single parents like Gladys Diaz, heading home to the South Bronx. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 12, 2007 There are days when Wilfredo Gonell fantasizes about not having to steer his dates to the dollar menu. Or when Michael Ferrari, who is 27, recalls his life before peanut butter and jelly sandwich lunches, and before he had to become a roommate with his mom. Skip to next paragraph Vincent Laforet for The New York Times Wilfredo Gonell, left, dismissed a group of police recruits after a day of classes at the Police Academy. At first, their annual salary is $25,100. Kerry O’Connor, 32, fondly remembers when she did not have to keep her thermostat set at 60 degrees in the dead of winter. And Joseph Torres yearns for that not-so-distant time when he did not have to make a half-pound pack of cold cuts last an entire week. All four are new recruits with the New York Police Department and are struggling with the reality of scraping by their first six months on annual salaries of $25,100, the city’s pay to officers in training since January 2006. Once officers graduate, their salary rises to $32,700. Mr. Gonell, Mr. Ferrari, Ms. O’Connor and Mr. Torres, along with several other recruits, said that they knew being a police officer would never make them rich, but that their desire to join the force outweighed the financial hardship. But now, four months into their training at the Police Academy, and with graduation less than two months away, several recruits said that they had greatly underestimated just how difficult it would be to make ends meet. have gone unpaid. Credit card debts have mushroomed. Parents have been tapped, repeatedly and exhaustively, for emergency funds, extra bedrooms and leftovers. “After my mom cooks for me, I spread it out,” said Mr. Gonell, 25, who lives in the Bronx. “Rice and chicken, rice and chicken. I’m going to fly out of here eventually, that’s how much chicken I eat.” The Police Department’s entry level salary is the lowest for police officers in the region, and so is its officers’ top base pay of $59,588 after five and a half years. Those wages are a result of past contract negotiations, and Mayor has suggested that the job’s perks and prestige outweigh its drawbacks. Still, police union officials say the wages are deterring would-be recruits and driving seasoned officers to higher paying jobs elsewhere. The department hired 1,346 recruits in January, about 1,000 short of its goal, and police officials say the relatively low pay is largely to blame. Critics have suggested that the academy has lowered its standards in an effort to fill its ranks — an assertion the department denies — but Mr. Torres said the pay keeps away those who are not truly dedicated. “You’re going to get cops who really want to be cops,” he said. Still, Mr. Torres, who is 24, said he found the transition to a $25,100 salary especially rocky. A Brooklynite by birth, Mr. Torres said he made several times as much when he was a police officer in Burbank, Calif. He longed to return home, though, and be a police officer in New York. He is living rent free with an aunt on Staten Island, while his girlfriend and her 5-year-old daughter stay with his parents in New Jersey. Even so, after making car payments and buying gas and groceries, Mr. Torres said there was little left. “There was a lot of careful planning,” he said. “But right now, surviving is impossible.” Ms. O’Connor, who attended law school at Notre Dame University and until recently worked as a paramedic in Queens, said she worked overtime during the final six months of her old job to save up money. Her girlfriend took an extra job to make the mortgage payments on their new house, while Ms. O’Connor picks up the utility bills. But, like many others in the academy, she found herself unprepared and unable to cover unexpected expenses. Recruits must spend hundreds of dollars for, among other things, uniforms, swimsuits and gym clothes. They must buy their own guns and the $150 safe to store them in. Their graduation uniform costs $500. Many take out loans just to cover the costs. “If I had to do it again, I don’t know if I could,” said Ms. O’Connor, whose credit card debt and other unpaid bills have crept past $4,000. The academy’s pay is especially challenging for single parents, like Gladys Diaz, 31, who lives with her 13-year-old daughter, Samantha, in the South Bronx. Ms. Diaz relies on Samantha’s father to pay for their daughter’s clothes and sneakers. She also set up a pickle jar in her apartment that she and her daughter are filling with extra coins and dollars for a dream vacation in Puerto Rico. Much like starving students, many recruits have said goodbye to luxuries for now, and arguably a few necessities, too. They rarely go out to eat or to the movies. They said they had canceled cable television — Mr. Gonell dug up an old set of rabbit ears — and a few said they pirated wireless Internet connections. “The luxury I wanted to keep was my cellphone,” said Kiesha Lawhorne, 25, a recruit who lives in the Bronx. “I made it through by the grace of God.” Inadvertently, many recruits have become environmentally friendly, washing clothes in cold water, because it costs less than hot, snapping off lights in empty rooms and walking longer distances instead of hopping into taxicabs or cars. “I have air-conditioners in the window, but I don’t think I can afford to run them in the summer,” said Matthew Caplan, 27, who is still paying off loans for his master’s degree in forensic psychology. Already, some recruits from the current class, which graduates in July, say they are planning to take tests for police departments in Nassau and Suffolk, where officers’ top pay exceeds $90,000, or for departments in other states. Others, though, said they planned to pledge their lives to the department, even Mr. Torres, cheap ham sandwiches and all. “I want to stay here forever,” he said. “I’m know I’m always going to be N.Y.P.D.” Next Article in New York Region (2 of 16) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. On Patrol, and Now on Edge City Again Urges Pataki to Reject 2 Union-Supported Pension Bills City Trying to Ease Rule on Veterans' Pay Reimbursement THE WEEK; Sleepy Hollow Police Talks at an Impasse Next Article in New York Region (2 of 16) &#x00bb; The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics Obey The Law, 1948 N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/12/nyregion/12recruits.html	Recruits Say Joining Police Force Is a Test of Wills and Wallets - New York Times Recruits Say Joining Police Force Is a Test of Wills and Wallets Vincent Laforet for The New York Times Training to be a New York City police officer often requires personal sacrifices, especially for single parents like Gladys Diaz, heading home to the South Bronx. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 12, 2007 There are days when Wilfredo Gonell fantasizes about not having to steer his dates to the dollar menu. Or when Michael Ferrari, who is 27, recalls his life before peanut butter and jelly sandwich lunches, and before he had to become a roommate with his mom. Skip to next paragraph Vincent Laforet for The New York Times Wilfredo Gonell, left, dismissed a group of police recruits after a day of classes at the Police Academy. At first, their annual salary is $25,100. Kerry O’Connor, 32, fondly remembers when she did not have to keep her thermostat set at 60 degrees in the dead of winter. And Joseph Torres yearns for that not-so-distant time when he did not have to make a half-pound pack of cold cuts last an entire week. All four are new recruits with the New York Police Department and are struggling with the reality of scraping by their first six months on annual salaries of $25,100, the city’s pay to officers in training since January 2006. Once officers graduate, their salary rises to $32,700. Mr. Gonell, Mr. Ferrari, Ms. O’Connor and Mr. Torres, along with several other recruits, said that they knew being a police officer would never make them rich, but that their desire to join the force outweighed the financial hardship. But now, four months into their training at the Police Academy, and with graduation less than two months away, several recruits said that they had greatly underestimated just how difficult it would be to make ends meet. have gone unpaid. Credit card debts have mushroomed. Parents have been tapped, repeatedly and exhaustively, for emergency funds, extra bedrooms and leftovers. “After my mom cooks for me, I spread it out,” said Mr. Gonell, 25, who lives in the Bronx. “Rice and chicken, rice and chicken. I’m going to fly out of here eventually, that’s how much chicken I eat.” The Police Department’s entry level salary is the lowest for police officers in the region, and so is its officers’ top base pay of $59,588 after five and a half years. Those wages are a result of past contract negotiations, and Mayor has suggested that the job’s perks and prestige outweigh its drawbacks. Still, police union officials say the wages are deterring would-be recruits and driving seasoned officers to higher paying jobs elsewhere. The department hired 1,346 recruits in January, about 1,000 short of its goal, and police officials say the relatively low pay is largely to blame. Critics have suggested that the academy has lowered its standards in an effort to fill its ranks — an assertion the department denies — but Mr. Torres said the pay keeps away those who are not truly dedicated. “You’re going to get cops who really want to be cops,” he said. Still, Mr. Torres, who is 24, said he found the transition to a $25,100 salary especially rocky. A Brooklynite by birth, Mr. Torres said he made several times as much when he was a police officer in Burbank, Calif. He longed to return home, though, and be a police officer in New York. He is living rent free with an aunt on Staten Island, while his girlfriend and her 5-year-old daughter stay with his parents in New Jersey. Even so, after making car payments and buying gas and groceries, Mr. Torres said there was little left. “There was a lot of careful planning,” he said. “But right now, surviving is impossible.” Ms. O’Connor, who attended law school at Notre Dame University and until recently worked as a paramedic in Queens, said she worked overtime during the final six months of her old job to save up money. Her girlfriend took an extra job to make the mortgage payments on their new house, while Ms. O’Connor picks up the utility bills. But, like many others in the academy, she found herself unprepared and unable to cover unexpected expenses. Recruits must spend hundreds of dollars for, among other things, uniforms, swimsuits and gym clothes. They must buy their own guns and the $150 safe to store them in. Their graduation uniform costs $500. Many take out loans just to cover the costs. “If I had to do it again, I don’t know if I could,” said Ms. O’Connor, whose credit card debt and other unpaid bills have crept past $4,000. The academy’s pay is especially challenging for single parents, like Gladys Diaz, 31, who lives with her 13-year-old daughter, Samantha, in the South Bronx. Ms. Diaz relies on Samantha’s father to pay for their daughter’s clothes and sneakers. She also set up a pickle jar in her apartment that she and her daughter are filling with extra coins and dollars for a dream vacation in Puerto Rico. Much like starving students, many recruits have said goodbye to luxuries for now, and arguably a few necessities, too. They rarely go out to eat or to the movies. They said they had canceled cable television — Mr. Gonell dug up an old set of rabbit ears — and a few said they pirated wireless Internet connections. “The luxury I wanted to keep was my cellphone,” said Kiesha Lawhorne, 25, a recruit who lives in the Bronx. “I made it through by the grace of God.” Inadvertently, many recruits have become environmentally friendly, washing clothes in cold water, because it costs less than hot, snapping off lights in empty rooms and walking longer distances instead of hopping into taxicabs or cars. “I have air-conditioners in the window, but I don’t think I can afford to run them in the summer,” said Matthew Caplan, 27, who is still paying off loans for his master’s degree in forensic psychology. Already, some recruits from the current class, which graduates in July, say they are planning to take tests for police departments in Nassau and Suffolk, where officers’ top pay exceeds $90,000, or for departments in other states. Others, though, said they planned to pledge their lives to the department, even Mr. Torres, cheap ham sandwiches and all. “I want to stay here forever,” he said. “I’m know I’m always going to be N.Y.P.D.” Next Article in New York Region (2 of 16) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. On Patrol, and Now on Edge City Again Urges Pataki to Reject 2 Union-Supported Pension Bills City Trying to Ease Rule on Veterans' Pay Reimbursement THE WEEK; Sleepy Hollow Police Talks at an Impasse Next Article in New York Region (2 of 16) &#x00bb; The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics Obey The Law, 1948 N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/washington/15cnd-attorneys.html?ex=1336881600&en=246b34c8906ddfc4&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Gonzales Pressed Ailing Ashcroft on Spy Plan, Aide Says - New York Times Gonzales Pressed Ailing Ashcroft on Spy Plan, Aide Says Stephen Crowley/The New York Times Former Deputy Attorney General James Comey testifying before the Senate Judiciary Committee hearing today. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 15, 2007 WASHINGTON, May 15 — On the night of March 10, 2004, a high-ranking Justice Department official rushed to a Washington hospital to prevent two White House aides from taking advantage of the critically ill Attorney General, , the official testified today. One of those aides was , who was then White House counsel and eventually succeeded Mr. Ashcroft as Attorney General. “I was very upset,” said , who was deputy Attorney General at the time, in his testimony today before the Senate Judiciary Committee. “I was angry. I thought I had just witnessed an effort to take advantage of a very sick man, who did not have the powers of the attorney general because they had been transferred to me.” The hospital visit by Mr. Gonzales and Andrew H. Card Jr. , who was then White House chief of staff, has been disclosed before, but never in such dramatic, personal detail. Mr. Comey’s account offered a rare and titillating glimpse of a Washington power struggle, complete with a late-night showdown in the White House after a dramatic encounter in a darkened hospital room — in short, elements of a potboiler paperback novel. Mr. Comey related his story to the committee, which is investigating various aspects of Mr. Gonzales’s tenure as Attorney General, including the recent dismissals of eight and allegations that applicants for traditionally nonpartisan career prosecutor jobs were screened for political loyalties. Although Mr. Comey declined to say specifically what the business was that sent Mr. Gonzales to the bedside of Mr. Ashcroft in George Washington Hospital, where he lay critically ill with pancreatitis, it was clear that the subject was the ’s secret domestic surveillance program. The signature of Mr. Ashcroft or his surrogate was needed by the next day, March 11, in order to renew the program, which was still secret at that time. Since the existence of the program was disclosed by The New York Times in late 2005, it has been reported that it was the subject of a tense debate at the highest levels of the Bush administration, with some officials concerned that the program was not adequately supervised, and others having more fundamental worries. Around the time of the hospital incident, the White House suspended parts of the program for several months and imposed tougher requirements on the National Security Agency on how the program was to be used.Mr. Comey told the committee today that when Mr. Ashcroft was ill and he was in charge at the Justice Department, he told the White House he would not certify the program again “as to its legality.” On the night of March 10, as he was being driven home by his security detail, he got a telephone call from Mr. Ashcroft’s chief of staff, who had just been contacted by Mr. Ashcroft’s wife, Janet. Although Mrs. Ashcroft had banned visitors and telephone calls to her husband’s hospital room, she had just gotten a call from the White House telling her that Mr. Card and Mr. Gonzales were on their way to see her husband, Mr. Comey testified. “I have some recollection that the call was from the president himself, but I don’t know that for sure,” Mr. Comey said. He said his security detail then sped him to the hospital with sirens blaring and emergency lights flashing, while he telephoned the director of the , Robert S. Mueller 3d, from the car. Mr. Mueller shared his sense of urgency: “He said, ‘I’ll meet you at the hospital right now,’ ” Mr. Comey testified. When he got to the hospital, Mr. Comey recalled, “I got out of the car and ran up — literally, ran up the stairs with my security detail.” “What was your concern?” asked Senator , Democrat of New York, who was the chairman of today’s committee session. “I was concerned that, given how ill I knew the attorney general was, that there might be an effort to ask him to overrule me when he was in no condition to do that,” Mr. Comey replied. Mr. Comey recalled arriving at the darkened hospital room, where Mr. Ashcroft seemed hardly aware of his surroundings. For a time, only Mr. Comey and the Ashcrofts were in the room. Meanwhile, Mr. Mueller, who had not yet arrived, told Mr. Comey’s security detail by phone “not to allow me to be removed from the room under any circumstances,” Mr. Comey testified. Minutes later, he said, Mr. Gonzales and Mr. Card entered the room, with Mr. Gonzales carrying an envelope. “And then Mr. Gonzales began to discuss why they were there, to seek his approval for a matter,” Mr. Comey related. “And Attorney General Ashcroft then stunned me,” Mr. Comey went on: He raised his head from the pillow, reiterated his objections to the program, then lay back down, pointing to Mr. Comey as the attorney general during his illness. When Mr. Mueller arrived, “he had a brief, a memorable brief exchange with the attorney general, and then we went outside in the hallway,” Mr. Comey said. Mr. Gonzales and Mr. Card departed, but after a while, Mr. Card telephoned Mr. Comey and “demanded that I come to the White House immediately,” Mr. Comey said. “After what I just witnessed, I will not meet with you without a witness, and I intend that witness to be the solicitor general of the United States,” Mr. Comey said he told Mr. Card. Whereupon, Mr. Comey said, he contacted the solicitor general, , who was at a dinner party, and arranged to go with him to the White House. At first, Mr. Card would not let Mr. Olson enter his office, Mr. Comey said; he then had a considerably calmer private chat with Mr. Card for a quarter-hour, after which Mr. Olson entered the room and took part in the conversation. “Mr. Card was concerned that he had heard reports that there were to be a large number of resignations at the Department of Justice,” Mr. Comey recalled. Mr. Ashcroft had such serious reservations about the program that he considered resigning then, Mr. Comey testified. Instead, he stayed on until November 2004. Mr. Mueller, too, considered resigning, Mr. Comey said. “You had conversations with him about it?” Mr. Schumer asked. “Yes,” Mr. Comey replied.The surveillance program was reauthorized on March 11, 2004, without a signature from the Department of Justice “attesting to its legality,” Mr. Comey testified. Mr. Comey said today that he intended to resign the next day, March 12. But on that day, terrorists carried out deadly train bombings in Madrid, and he put his plans on hold and remained on the job until August 2005. Even before Mr. Comey’s testimony, Mr. Schumer and Senator of Pennsylvania, the panel’s ranking Republican, reiterated their low opinion of Mr. Gonzales as attorney general. “He’s presided over a Justice Department where being a, quote, loyal Bushie seems to be more important than being a seasoned professional, where what the White House wants is more important than what the law requires or what prudence dictates,” Mr. Schumer said. “It is the decision of Mr. Gonzales as to whether he stays or goes, but it is hard to see how the Department of Justice can function and perform its important duties with Mr. Gonzales remaining where he is,” Mr Specter said. “And beyond Mr. Gonzales’ decision, it’s a matter for the president as to whether the president will retain the attorney general or not.” More Articles in Washington &#x00bb; Get early access to articles from this Sunday's Times. Sign up for TimesSelect free for 14 days. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. More Articles in Washington &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/washington/15cnd-attorneys.html?ex=1336881600&en=246b34c8906ddfc4&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Gonzales Pressed Ailing Ashcroft on Spy Plan, Aide Says - New York Times Gonzales Pressed Ailing Ashcroft on Spy Plan, Aide Says Stephen Crowley/The New York Times Former Deputy Attorney General James Comey testifying before the Senate Judiciary Committee hearing today. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 15, 2007 WASHINGTON, May 15 — On the night of March 10, 2004, a high-ranking Justice Department official rushed to a Washington hospital to prevent two White House aides from taking advantage of the critically ill Attorney General, , the official testified today. One of those aides was , who was then White House counsel and eventually succeeded Mr. Ashcroft as Attorney General. “I was very upset,” said , who was deputy Attorney General at the time, in his testimony today before the Senate Judiciary Committee. “I was angry. I thought I had just witnessed an effort to take advantage of a very sick man, who did not have the powers of the attorney general because they had been transferred to me.” The hospital visit by Mr. Gonzales and Andrew H. Card Jr. , who was then White House chief of staff, has been disclosed before, but never in such dramatic, personal detail. Mr. Comey’s account offered a rare and titillating glimpse of a Washington power struggle, complete with a late-night showdown in the White House after a dramatic encounter in a darkened hospital room — in short, elements of a potboiler paperback novel. Mr. Comey related his story to the committee, which is investigating various aspects of Mr. Gonzales’s tenure as Attorney General, including the recent dismissals of eight and allegations that applicants for traditionally nonpartisan career prosecutor jobs were screened for political loyalties. Although Mr. Comey declined to say specifically what the business was that sent Mr. Gonzales to the bedside of Mr. Ashcroft in George Washington Hospital, where he lay critically ill with pancreatitis, it was clear that the subject was the ’s secret domestic surveillance program. The signature of Mr. Ashcroft or his surrogate was needed by the next day, March 11, in order to renew the program, which was still secret at that time. Since the existence of the program was disclosed by The New York Times in late 2005, it has been reported that it was the subject of a tense debate at the highest levels of the Bush administration, with some officials concerned that the program was not adequately supervised, and others having more fundamental worries. Around the time of the hospital incident, the White House suspended parts of the program for several months and imposed tougher requirements on the National Security Agency on how the program was to be used.Mr. Comey told the committee today that when Mr. Ashcroft was ill and he was in charge at the Justice Department, he told the White House he would not certify the program again “as to its legality.” On the night of March 10, as he was being driven home by his security detail, he got a telephone call from Mr. Ashcroft’s chief of staff, who had just been contacted by Mr. Ashcroft’s wife, Janet. Although Mrs. Ashcroft had banned visitors and telephone calls to her husband’s hospital room, she had just gotten a call from the White House telling her that Mr. Card and Mr. Gonzales were on their way to see her husband, Mr. Comey testified. “I have some recollection that the call was from the president himself, but I don’t know that for sure,” Mr. Comey said. He said his security detail then sped him to the hospital with sirens blaring and emergency lights flashing, while he telephoned the director of the , Robert S. Mueller 3d, from the car. Mr. Mueller shared his sense of urgency: “He said, ‘I’ll meet you at the hospital right now,’ ” Mr. Comey testified. When he got to the hospital, Mr. Comey recalled, “I got out of the car and ran up — literally, ran up the stairs with my security detail.” “What was your concern?” asked Senator , Democrat of New York, who was the chairman of today’s committee session. “I was concerned that, given how ill I knew the attorney general was, that there might be an effort to ask him to overrule me when he was in no condition to do that,” Mr. Comey replied. Mr. Comey recalled arriving at the darkened hospital room, where Mr. Ashcroft seemed hardly aware of his surroundings. For a time, only Mr. Comey and the Ashcrofts were in the room. Meanwhile, Mr. Mueller, who had not yet arrived, told Mr. Comey’s security detail by phone “not to allow me to be removed from the room under any circumstances,” Mr. Comey testified. Minutes later, he said, Mr. Gonzales and Mr. Card entered the room, with Mr. Gonzales carrying an envelope. “And then Mr. Gonzales began to discuss why they were there, to seek his approval for a matter,” Mr. Comey related. “And Attorney General Ashcroft then stunned me,” Mr. Comey went on: He raised his head from the pillow, reiterated his objections to the program, then lay back down, pointing to Mr. Comey as the attorney general during his illness. When Mr. Mueller arrived, “he had a brief, a memorable brief exchange with the attorney general, and then we went outside in the hallway,” Mr. Comey said. Mr. Gonzales and Mr. Card departed, but after a while, Mr. Card telephoned Mr. Comey and “demanded that I come to the White House immediately,” Mr. Comey said. “After what I just witnessed, I will not meet with you without a witness, and I intend that witness to be the solicitor general of the United States,” Mr. Comey said he told Mr. Card. Whereupon, Mr. Comey said, he contacted the solicitor general, , who was at a dinner party, and arranged to go with him to the White House. At first, Mr. Card would not let Mr. Olson enter his office, Mr. Comey said; he then had a considerably calmer private chat with Mr. Card for a quarter-hour, after which Mr. Olson entered the room and took part in the conversation. “Mr. Card was concerned that he had heard reports that there were to be a large number of resignations at the Department of Justice,” Mr. Comey recalled. Mr. Ashcroft had such serious reservations about the program that he considered resigning then, Mr. Comey testified. Instead, he stayed on until November 2004. Mr. Mueller, too, considered resigning, Mr. Comey said. “You had conversations with him about it?” Mr. Schumer asked. “Yes,” Mr. Comey replied.The surveillance program was reauthorized on March 11, 2004, without a signature from the Department of Justice “attesting to its legality,” Mr. Comey testified. Mr. Comey said today that he intended to resign the next day, March 12. But on that day, terrorists carried out deadly train bombings in Madrid, and he put his plans on hold and remained on the job until August 2005. Even before Mr. Comey’s testimony, Mr. Schumer and Senator of Pennsylvania, the panel’s ranking Republican, reiterated their low opinion of Mr. Gonzales as attorney general. “He’s presided over a Justice Department where being a, quote, loyal Bushie seems to be more important than being a seasoned professional, where what the White House wants is more important than what the law requires or what prudence dictates,” Mr. Schumer said. “It is the decision of Mr. Gonzales as to whether he stays or goes, but it is hard to see how the Department of Justice can function and perform its important duties with Mr. Gonzales remaining where he is,” Mr Specter said. “And beyond Mr. Gonzales’ decision, it’s a matter for the president as to whether the president will retain the attorney general or not.” More Articles in Washington &#x00bb; Get early access to articles from this Sunday's Times. Sign up for TimesSelect free for 14 days. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. More Articles in Washington &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/world/middleeast/15cnd-gaza.html	At Least 7 Killed in Gaza Fighting - New York Times At Least 7 Killed in Gaza Fighting Mahmud Hams/Agence France-Presse — Getty Images A Palestinian child today in front of the bodies of slain Fatah security officers at the morgue in the Deir el-Balah hospital in the Gaza Strip. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 15, 2007 NAHAL OZ, Israel, May 15 &#151; Fighters from the military wing of , one of the two main Palestinian political factions, attacked security forces loyal to the rival Fatah faction at a location in Gaza near the border with Israel today, killing nine people, according to Fatah officials. Skip to next paragraph Mahmud Hams/Agence France-Presse — Getty Images Palestinians today carrying the body of a security force member into the morgue in the Deir el-Balah hospital in the Gaza Strip. The clashes extended an outbreak of factional violence to a third day, threatening the survival of the two-month-old &#8220;unity&#8221; government of the Palestinian Authority, the result of a power-sharing agreement between Hamas and Fatah. The attack by Hamas fighters on the Presidential Guard, which is loyal to the Palestinian president, of Fatah, seemed to be a direct challenge to his authority. Raising the stakes further, the Hamas military wing said that it had fired the Qassam rockets that hit the Israeli border town of Sderot this evening, wounding several civilians, one seriously. The Palestinian information minister, Mustafa Barghouti, warned that if the unity government collapses, the whole Palestinian Authority could go down with it. Israeli troops fired today at two armed Palestinians who were spotted close to the border fence opposite Nahal Oz, a kibbutz that abuts the Gaza Strip, killing one of the two, an army spokeswoman said. Local news reports identified the two as members of the Presidential Guard who were fleeing the Hamas attack at the Karni commercial border crossing, which is nearby. At least one other Palestinian was killed in factional violence in Gaza City today, bringing the death toll to about 20 since the clashes resumed on Sunday after three months of relative calm. Israeli tanks lined up on the Israeli side of the border this morning while fierce gun battles raged among the Palestinian forces on the other side, but the tanks had drawn back by early afternoon. In the evening, a barrage of Qassam rockets fired from Gaza struck Sderot, hitting a house and a school, army officials said. According to Israel Radio, Hamas said the rockets were meant to commemorate Nakba Day, when Palestinians mark the anniversary of what they call the &#8220;catastrophe&#8221; of the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948. During the day, the Prime Minister of Israel, , met with King Abdullah of Jordan in the port city of Aqaba. David Baker, an official in Mr. Olmert&#8217;s office, said the leaders had a &#8220;warm and productive meeting, in which they discussed ways of promoting the Israeli-Palestinian process.&#8221; Mr. Baker said the leaders also discussed ways of shoring up the position of Mr. Abbas and other relative moderates in the Palestinian Authority. But the intensity of today&#8217;s violence in Gaza raised serious doubts about the viability of the joint government, and about the future of the Palestinian Authority as a whole. One of the main purposes of the power-sharing agreement was to stop factional violence that was threatening to spiral into civil war. &#8220;If this government falls, it means the collapse of the Palestinian Authority, and with it, the end of all agreements,&#8221; said Mr. Barghouti, the government spokesman. Speaking by telephone from Ramallah, he said that President Abbas had told the Palestinian cabinet on Monday night, &#8220;This is my government, and if it falls, I will fall with it.&#8221; The attack on the Fatah-aligned forces guarding the Karni crossing was the most audacious show of force by Hamas since the violence restarted, and it ratcheted up the hostility level between the warring factions. A spokesman for Hamas&#8217;s police force, Islam Shahwan, said that today&#8217;s violence started with the killing of Ibrahim Maniah, 45, a member of the Hamas-linked Qassam Brigade militia, by members of the Fatah-linked Presidential Guard in the Gaza neighborhood of Sajaiya, near the Karni crossing. Mr. Shahwan called the killing an assasination; Fatah officials denied that, and said Mr. Maniah was killed during street clashes. Mr. Abbas&#8217;s Presidential Guard is responsible for security at the Karni crossing. A spokesman for the Presidential Guard, Wael Dahab, said that Hamas raided a security position there, firing guns and rocket-propelled grenades. Three jeeps from the pro-Fatah National Security Forces drove toward Karni to provide backup to the Presidential Guard, but one of the vehicles overturned on the road, Fatah spokesmen said. Tawfiq Abu Houssa, a Fatah security official, said that Qassam Brigade members then went up to the overturned jeep and killed the seven men inside, shooting them &#8220;in cold blood, at close range.&#8221; He said their weapons were stolen. A Hamas spokesman, Fawzi Barhoum, said that the &#8220;Fatah accusations came without any investigation.&#8221; Earlier, Hamas spokesmen said Israel was to blame for the deaths of the National Security Force members, saying they were killed by a tank shell fired from across the border that struck the jeep. But the Israeli army spokeswoman denied that any shells had been fired. The Palestinian information minister, Mr. Barghouti, a political independent, said that the day&#8217;s events were still under investigation, and that &#8220;both sides&#8221; were responsible for the violence. By the afternoon, Gaza was mostly quiet, though sporadic bursts of gunfire could be heard. Across the border in the Nahal Oz kibbutz, tractors worked to harvest a carrot crop until a Qassam rocket landed in an open field at about 3 p.m., the first rocket to be fired today, the Israeli army said. Inside Gaza the atmosphere remained tense. Most people stayed at home, stores were closed, and gunmen from Hamas or Fatah took up positions in taller buildings in Gaza City, while Egyptian officials worked in earnest to try to mediate and restore calm. &#8220;With every new confrontation, the ability of the leaders to control their people on the ground is reduced,&#8221; said Mr. Barghouti. &#8220;There are certain people who don&#8217;t want calm.&#8221; Taghreed El-Khodary contributed reporting from Gaza City. More Articles in International &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Jordan&#8217;s King Calls Off Visit to the West Bank Hamas-Fatah Gunfight Worsens Factional Strife in Gaza Clash at U.N.-Run Gaza School Kills One and Wounds 6 World Briefing | Middle East: Gaza: Demands For BBC Journalist Rejected More Articles in International &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Tom Seaver Autographed Baseball N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/world/middleeast/15cnd-gaza.html	At Least 7 Killed in Gaza Fighting - New York Times At Least 7 Killed in Gaza Fighting Mahmud Hams/Agence France-Presse — Getty Images A Palestinian child today in front of the bodies of slain Fatah security officers at the morgue in the Deir el-Balah hospital in the Gaza Strip. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 15, 2007 NAHAL OZ, Israel, May 15 &#151; Fighters from the military wing of , one of the two main Palestinian political factions, attacked security forces loyal to the rival Fatah faction at a location in Gaza near the border with Israel today, killing nine people, according to Fatah officials. Skip to next paragraph Mahmud Hams/Agence France-Presse — Getty Images Palestinians today carrying the body of a security force member into the morgue in the Deir el-Balah hospital in the Gaza Strip. The clashes extended an outbreak of factional violence to a third day, threatening the survival of the two-month-old &#8220;unity&#8221; government of the Palestinian Authority, the result of a power-sharing agreement between Hamas and Fatah. The attack by Hamas fighters on the Presidential Guard, which is loyal to the Palestinian president, of Fatah, seemed to be a direct challenge to his authority. Raising the stakes further, the Hamas military wing said that it had fired the Qassam rockets that hit the Israeli border town of Sderot this evening, wounding several civilians, one seriously. The Palestinian information minister, Mustafa Barghouti, warned that if the unity government collapses, the whole Palestinian Authority could go down with it. Israeli troops fired today at two armed Palestinians who were spotted close to the border fence opposite Nahal Oz, a kibbutz that abuts the Gaza Strip, killing one of the two, an army spokeswoman said. Local news reports identified the two as members of the Presidential Guard who were fleeing the Hamas attack at the Karni commercial border crossing, which is nearby. At least one other Palestinian was killed in factional violence in Gaza City today, bringing the death toll to about 20 since the clashes resumed on Sunday after three months of relative calm. Israeli tanks lined up on the Israeli side of the border this morning while fierce gun battles raged among the Palestinian forces on the other side, but the tanks had drawn back by early afternoon. In the evening, a barrage of Qassam rockets fired from Gaza struck Sderot, hitting a house and a school, army officials said. According to Israel Radio, Hamas said the rockets were meant to commemorate Nakba Day, when Palestinians mark the anniversary of what they call the &#8220;catastrophe&#8221; of the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948. During the day, the Prime Minister of Israel, , met with King Abdullah of Jordan in the port city of Aqaba. David Baker, an official in Mr. Olmert&#8217;s office, said the leaders had a &#8220;warm and productive meeting, in which they discussed ways of promoting the Israeli-Palestinian process.&#8221; Mr. Baker said the leaders also discussed ways of shoring up the position of Mr. Abbas and other relative moderates in the Palestinian Authority. But the intensity of today&#8217;s violence in Gaza raised serious doubts about the viability of the joint government, and about the future of the Palestinian Authority as a whole. One of the main purposes of the power-sharing agreement was to stop factional violence that was threatening to spiral into civil war. &#8220;If this government falls, it means the collapse of the Palestinian Authority, and with it, the end of all agreements,&#8221; said Mr. Barghouti, the government spokesman. Speaking by telephone from Ramallah, he said that President Abbas had told the Palestinian cabinet on Monday night, &#8220;This is my government, and if it falls, I will fall with it.&#8221; The attack on the Fatah-aligned forces guarding the Karni crossing was the most audacious show of force by Hamas since the violence restarted, and it ratcheted up the hostility level between the warring factions. A spokesman for Hamas&#8217;s police force, Islam Shahwan, said that today&#8217;s violence started with the killing of Ibrahim Maniah, 45, a member of the Hamas-linked Qassam Brigade militia, by members of the Fatah-linked Presidential Guard in the Gaza neighborhood of Sajaiya, near the Karni crossing. Mr. Shahwan called the killing an assasination; Fatah officials denied that, and said Mr. Maniah was killed during street clashes. Mr. Abbas&#8217;s Presidential Guard is responsible for security at the Karni crossing. A spokesman for the Presidential Guard, Wael Dahab, said that Hamas raided a security position there, firing guns and rocket-propelled grenades. Three jeeps from the pro-Fatah National Security Forces drove toward Karni to provide backup to the Presidential Guard, but one of the vehicles overturned on the road, Fatah spokesmen said. Tawfiq Abu Houssa, a Fatah security official, said that Qassam Brigade members then went up to the overturned jeep and killed the seven men inside, shooting them &#8220;in cold blood, at close range.&#8221; He said their weapons were stolen. A Hamas spokesman, Fawzi Barhoum, said that the &#8220;Fatah accusations came without any investigation.&#8221; Earlier, Hamas spokesmen said Israel was to blame for the deaths of the National Security Force members, saying they were killed by a tank shell fired from across the border that struck the jeep. But the Israeli army spokeswoman denied that any shells had been fired. The Palestinian information minister, Mr. Barghouti, a political independent, said that the day&#8217;s events were still under investigation, and that &#8220;both sides&#8221; were responsible for the violence. By the afternoon, Gaza was mostly quiet, though sporadic bursts of gunfire could be heard. Across the border in the Nahal Oz kibbutz, tractors worked to harvest a carrot crop until a Qassam rocket landed in an open field at about 3 p.m., the first rocket to be fired today, the Israeli army said. Inside Gaza the atmosphere remained tense. Most people stayed at home, stores were closed, and gunmen from Hamas or Fatah took up positions in taller buildings in Gaza City, while Egyptian officials worked in earnest to try to mediate and restore calm. &#8220;With every new confrontation, the ability of the leaders to control their people on the ground is reduced,&#8221; said Mr. Barghouti. &#8220;There are certain people who don&#8217;t want calm.&#8221; Taghreed El-Khodary contributed reporting from Gaza City. More Articles in International &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Jordan&#8217;s King Calls Off Visit to the West Bank Hamas-Fatah Gunfight Worsens Factional Strife in Gaza Clash at U.N.-Run Gaza School Kills One and Wounds 6 World Briefing | Middle East: Gaza: Demands For BBC Journalist Rejected More Articles in International &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Tom Seaver Autographed Baseball N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/index.html	The New York Times - Breaking News, World News & Multimedia Tuesday, May 15, 2007 NYT Archive Since 1981 Gonzales Pressed Ailing Ashcroft on Spy Plan, Aide Says James B. Comey’s account before the Senate Judiciary Committee offered a rare and titillating glimpse of a Washington power struggle. More From The Lede Tyco Paying $3 Billion to Settle Shareholder Suits The settlement, described as the largest payment in such a suit, seeks to put to rest a case that became synonymous with corporate excess. ‘Spring Awakening’ Gets 11 Tony Nominations In a season rich with contenders, “Spring Awakening,” a dark rock musical, led the field of Tony nominations. Times Topics: Tony Awards Rev. Jerry Falwell Is Dead at 73 Jerry Falwell, the fundamentalist preacher who founded the Moral Majority, died today shortly after he was found unconscious in his office at Liberty University. Readers' Opinions: Falwell's Legacy? In Study, College-Prep Classes Left Many Unready Only 26 percent of high school students who take the core courses are well prepared for college, the study says. Inflation Is Tame Despite Rising Gas Prices By JEREMY W. PETERS Consumer prices rose 0.4 percent in April, while the core rate, which excludes food and gas, rose only 0.2 percent. Suicide Bombing Kills at Least 22 in Pakistan At Least 7 Killed in Gaza Fighting Thomson and Reuters Agree on Merger The Lede: Shock Jocks Suspended The Caucus: Clues to Tonight’s Debate The Lede: Unseating the Border Patrol Chief The Empire Zone: Giuliani Aide Lashes Back DealBook: ‘Private Equity Can Go Anyplace’ Talk to the Newsroom » The Times’s Matthew Purdy answers reader questions. Is Amputee Sprinter Too-Abled? Should athletes with prosthetics compete with able-bodied athletes? Clinton, Obama to Back Iraq Fund Cutoff Philadelphia Holds Mayoral Primary ABC Adds 11 New Series Brazil Man Guilty in Killing of U.S. Nun “Canyon Passage” is a great western that resembles no other. The New York City police commissioner Raymond W. Kelly turns critic when viewing "The Naked City." No One Says ‘9/11.’ Allusions to the attacks are becoming fair game for movies and TV. Herbert: Paid Sick Days What Gets Left Behind When they move, New Yorkers “forget” to pack all sorts of things, from television sets and air-conditioners to drugs and handcuffs. More in Real Estate Mortgage News and Rates LIVE IN STYLE!NEW TO MARKET! This spacious ... See All Featured Properties Place a Classified Ad » In the Desert, an Oasis for Drag Racing Gearheads gather near Dubai to test their mettle at a complex for quarter-mile drag racing. Submit photos and comment on other readers' cars. Also, keep track of events Go to Photo Gallery Place a Classified Ad » Post a job online More in Job Market Browse jobs by industry Browse jobs by location Consultants and résumé writers might improve the odds of landing a high-paying job. Place a Classified Ad » Find a Classifieds listing Home & Garden Directory Small Inns & Lodges Post a classifieds ad online GOLDBERG HOLDINGS SEEKS CAPITAL FOR FORECLOSURE ACQUISITIONS IN VEGAS Goldberg Holdings is......... Place a Classified Ad » SAVE 50% ON HOME DELIVERY Have The New York Times waiting for you, for as little as $3.15 a week. N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker Arabian capital of culture and strategic hub forges ahead Be Prepared. Fight ID Theft. Equifax Credit Watch™. Equifax.com Earn 5.05% APY - Open a Complete Savings Acct from E*TRADE Bank Photos, fine art, books and more. Inspectors Cite Big Gain by Iran on Nuclear Fuel Turkish City Counters Fear of Islam’s Reach Bank’s Report Says Wolfowitz Violated Ethics Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Bush Calls for Work for Higher Fuel Efficiency U. of Texas Fires Officer Over Tie to Loan Company Gonzales’s Deputy Quits Justice Department Bush Calls for Work for Higher Fuel Efficiency Bank’s Report Says Wolfowitz Violated Ethics N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; The Freshman: Barely in Office, but G.O.P. Rivals Are Circling Lawyers Argue Legal Status of Gay Unions After Ordnance Scare, Beachgoers Told to Dig With Care A Giant Takes On Physics’ Biggest Questions Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Scientists Back Off Theory of a Colder Europe in a Warming World Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession The Consumer: As Demand for Donor Eggs Soars, High Prices Stir Ethical Concerns Oklahoma Chides Insurer in Medicare Marketing Case U. of Texas Fires Officer Over Tie to Loan Company Prestigious Private Schools Settle Rights Suit by a Non-Hawaiian 2 Suspended for School Prank That Scared Pupils in Tennessee What Gets Left Behind Streetscapes | Readers’ Questions: How the West Side Was Won National Perspectives: Reviving a No Man’s Land Along the Tennessee River News Analysis: In Deal, a Test for the U.A.W. Cerberus Goes Where No Firm Has Gone Before A Corporate Divorce on the Cheap New Motorola Phones Aim at High-End Market States Fault MySpace on Predator Issues On the Web, an Advanced Carbon Calculator for Personal Use Posada Is One Yankee That Can’t Be Replaced Oracle Rebounds in Challenger Series An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Family Travel | Shanghai for Kids: Amid Wheeler-Dealers, an Urban Playground Family Travel | In the Footsteps of Linnaeus: A Vast Garden of Knowledge, Still Blooming Today The Cape Town Area’s Endless Possibilities Dining & Wine &#x00bb; Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country Vital Signs: Nutrition: A Cardiovascular Argument for Eating Whole Grains The Way We Live Now: Ocean Blues Home & Garden &#x00bb; Aspiring to the Throne At Home With Charlie White: Order and Chaos in a Single Heartbeat In the Garden: It Takes a Hammer to Grow This Salad Fashion & Style &#x00bb; Clearly, Frankly, Unabashedly Disabled Girth and Nudity, a Pictorial Mission Modern Love: My First Lesson in Motherhood A Corporate Divorce on the Cheap News Analysis: In Deal, a Test for the U.A.W. A Chief With Union Roots Enters a Proving Ground Editorial: In Divided New Orleans Op-Ed Contributor: Friend or Faux? How to Define Progress in Iraq (6 Letters) ‘Spring Awakening’ Gets 11 Tony Nominations For ABC, Dramas Fill Out the Lineup Theater Review | 'Passing Strange': Look Back in Chagrin: A Rocker’s Progress Critic’s Choice: New DVDs Film: Moyduh, He Watched: Commissioner Turns Critic Film: No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. ‘Spring Awakening’ Gets 11 Tony Nominations Broadway’s Year of Tepid Hits Theater Review | 'Passing Strange': Look Back in Chagrin: A Rocker’s Progress 'The Pesthouse,' by Jim Crace: The Pesthouse 'Bad Luck and Trouble,' by Lee Child: He’s Taut of Style and Light of Foot Who Killed Kennedy? One Man’s Answer Week in Review &#x00bb; Speed Bump: When the Wheels Come Off a Sport The Nation: Genetic Testing + Abortion = ??? The World: See You in September, Whatever That Means The Flight From Iraq Writing in the Dark Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France About the NYT Co. Jobs at the NYT Co. Add New York Times headlines to your site Add New York Times RSS Feeds Get home delivery of The New York Times, as little as $3.15 a week. The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/index.html	The New York Times - Breaking News, World News & Multimedia Tuesday, May 15, 2007 NYT Archive Since 1981 Gonzales Pressed Ailing Ashcroft on Spy Plan, Aide Says James B. Comey’s account before the Senate Judiciary Committee offered a rare and titillating glimpse of a Washington power struggle. More From The Lede Tyco Paying $3 Billion to Settle Shareholder Suits The settlement, described as the largest payment in such a suit, seeks to put to rest a case that became synonymous with corporate excess. ‘Spring Awakening’ Gets 11 Tony Nominations In a season rich with contenders, “Spring Awakening,” a dark rock musical, led the field of Tony nominations. Times Topics: Tony Awards Rev. Jerry Falwell Is Dead at 73 Jerry Falwell, the fundamentalist preacher who founded the Moral Majority, died today shortly after he was found unconscious in his office at Liberty University. Readers' Opinions: Falwell's Legacy? In Study, College-Prep Classes Left Many Unready Only 26 percent of high school students who take the core courses are well prepared for college, the study says. Inflation Is Tame Despite Rising Gas Prices By JEREMY W. PETERS Consumer prices rose 0.4 percent in April, while the core rate, which excludes food and gas, rose only 0.2 percent. Suicide Bombing Kills at Least 22 in Pakistan At Least 7 Killed in Gaza Fighting Thomson and Reuters Agree on Merger The Lede: Shock Jocks Suspended The Caucus: Clues to Tonight’s Debate The Lede: Unseating the Border Patrol Chief The Empire Zone: Giuliani Aide Lashes Back DealBook: ‘Private Equity Can Go Anyplace’ Talk to the Newsroom » The Times’s Matthew Purdy answers reader questions. Is Amputee Sprinter Too-Abled? Should athletes with prosthetics compete with able-bodied athletes? Clinton, Obama to Back Iraq Fund Cutoff Philadelphia Holds Mayoral Primary ABC Adds 11 New Series Brazil Man Guilty in Killing of U.S. Nun “Canyon Passage” is a great western that resembles no other. The New York City police commissioner Raymond W. Kelly turns critic when viewing "The Naked City." No One Says ‘9/11.’ Allusions to the attacks are becoming fair game for movies and TV. Herbert: Paid Sick Days What Gets Left Behind When they move, New Yorkers “forget” to pack all sorts of things, from television sets and air-conditioners to drugs and handcuffs. More in Real Estate Mortgage News and Rates LIVE IN STYLE!NEW TO MARKET! This spacious ... See All Featured Properties Place a Classified Ad » In the Desert, an Oasis for Drag Racing Gearheads gather near Dubai to test their mettle at a complex for quarter-mile drag racing. Submit photos and comment on other readers' cars. Also, keep track of events Go to Photo Gallery Place a Classified Ad » Post a job online More in Job Market Browse jobs by industry Browse jobs by location Consultants and résumé writers might improve the odds of landing a high-paying job. Place a Classified Ad » Find a Classifieds listing Home & Garden Directory Small Inns & Lodges Post a classifieds ad online GOLDBERG HOLDINGS SEEKS CAPITAL FOR FORECLOSURE ACQUISITIONS IN VEGAS Goldberg Holdings is......... Place a Classified Ad » SAVE 50% ON HOME DELIVERY Have The New York Times waiting for you, for as little as $3.15 a week. N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker Arabian capital of culture and strategic hub forges ahead Be Prepared. Fight ID Theft. Equifax Credit Watch™. Equifax.com Earn 5.05% APY - Open a Complete Savings Acct from E*TRADE Bank Photos, fine art, books and more. Inspectors Cite Big Gain by Iran on Nuclear Fuel Turkish City Counters Fear of Islam’s Reach Bank’s Report Says Wolfowitz Violated Ethics Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Bush Calls for Work for Higher Fuel Efficiency U. of Texas Fires Officer Over Tie to Loan Company Gonzales’s Deputy Quits Justice Department Bush Calls for Work for Higher Fuel Efficiency Bank’s Report Says Wolfowitz Violated Ethics N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; The Freshman: Barely in Office, but G.O.P. Rivals Are Circling Lawyers Argue Legal Status of Gay Unions After Ordnance Scare, Beachgoers Told to Dig With Care A Giant Takes On Physics’ Biggest Questions Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Scientists Back Off Theory of a Colder Europe in a Warming World Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession The Consumer: As Demand for Donor Eggs Soars, High Prices Stir Ethical Concerns Oklahoma Chides Insurer in Medicare Marketing Case U. of Texas Fires Officer Over Tie to Loan Company Prestigious Private Schools Settle Rights Suit by a Non-Hawaiian 2 Suspended for School Prank That Scared Pupils in Tennessee What Gets Left Behind Streetscapes | Readers’ Questions: How the West Side Was Won National Perspectives: Reviving a No Man’s Land Along the Tennessee River News Analysis: In Deal, a Test for the U.A.W. Cerberus Goes Where No Firm Has Gone Before A Corporate Divorce on the Cheap New Motorola Phones Aim at High-End Market States Fault MySpace on Predator Issues On the Web, an Advanced Carbon Calculator for Personal Use Posada Is One Yankee That Can’t Be Replaced Oracle Rebounds in Challenger Series An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Family Travel | Shanghai for Kids: Amid Wheeler-Dealers, an Urban Playground Family Travel | In the Footsteps of Linnaeus: A Vast Garden of Knowledge, Still Blooming Today The Cape Town Area’s Endless Possibilities Dining & Wine &#x00bb; Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country Vital Signs: Nutrition: A Cardiovascular Argument for Eating Whole Grains The Way We Live Now: Ocean Blues Home & Garden &#x00bb; Aspiring to the Throne At Home With Charlie White: Order and Chaos in a Single Heartbeat In the Garden: It Takes a Hammer to Grow This Salad Fashion & Style &#x00bb; Clearly, Frankly, Unabashedly Disabled Girth and Nudity, a Pictorial Mission Modern Love: My First Lesson in Motherhood A Corporate Divorce on the Cheap News Analysis: In Deal, a Test for the U.A.W. A Chief With Union Roots Enters a Proving Ground Editorial: In Divided New Orleans Op-Ed Contributor: Friend or Faux? How to Define Progress in Iraq (6 Letters) ‘Spring Awakening’ Gets 11 Tony Nominations For ABC, Dramas Fill Out the Lineup Theater Review | 'Passing Strange': Look Back in Chagrin: A Rocker’s Progress Critic’s Choice: New DVDs Film: Moyduh, He Watched: Commissioner Turns Critic Film: No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. ‘Spring Awakening’ Gets 11 Tony Nominations Broadway’s Year of Tepid Hits Theater Review | 'Passing Strange': Look Back in Chagrin: A Rocker’s Progress 'The Pesthouse,' by Jim Crace: The Pesthouse 'Bad Luck and Trouble,' by Lee Child: He’s Taut of Style and Light of Foot Who Killed Kennedy? One Man’s Answer Week in Review &#x00bb; Speed Bump: When the Wheels Come Off a Sport The Nation: Genetic Testing + Abortion = ??? The World: See You in September, Whatever That Means The Flight From Iraq Writing in the Dark Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France About the NYT Co. Jobs at the NYT Co. Add New York Times headlines to your site Add New York Times RSS Feeds Get home delivery of The New York Times, as little as $3.15 a week. The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/world/asia/15cnd-pakista.html	Suicide Bombing Kills at Least 22 in Pakistan - New York Times Suicide Bombing Kills at Least 22 in Pakistan Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 15, 2007 PESHAWAR, May 15 — Twenty-two people were killed and 30 wounded here today when a suicide bomber struck a crowded restaurant in a busy part of the old city, police and hospital officials said. The bomb exploded at about 12:55 p.m. at the Marhaba Restaurant, which is on the ground floor of a four-story building opposite the historic Mohabat Khan mosque. The powerful explosion seriously damaged the hotel and caused damage to nearby shops and buildings. All that was left of the restaurant were shattered window panes and twisted fans hanging from the ceiling. It was not clear why the bomber targeted the restaurant, which is frequented by local residents who work in a nearby jewelry market and at the city’s biggest teaching hospital. But witnesses and police said the restaurant was owned by an Uzbek of Afghan origin who was affiliated with former Uzbek warlord Abdur Rashid Dostum. Posters of Mr. Dostrum adorned the walls of the restaurant. The owner of the restaurant, his brother and his son died in the explosion. “It definitely was a suicide bombing,” chief investigator, Fayaz Toru, told Dawn, an English-language newspaper in Karachi. He added that the initial investigation indicated the incident fit the pattern of similar suicide bombings in the area. News services reported that the provincial police chief, Sharif Virk, said he had recovered a suicide note written in an Afghan variant of Persian called Dari, as well as in Pashto, warning that those who spied for the United States face a similar fate. But Mr. Virk and other police investigators distanced themselves from those reports. Qazi Jamilur Rehman, head of the investigating team, denied that a suicide note had been recovered. “We are yet to reach any conclusion, but this can be said, that it was in reaction to the prevalent geo-political scenario in the region,” Mr. Virk told Dawn. Investigators and security officiald also denied news service reports that the suicide bombing may have been linked to the arrest of a close relative of Mullah Dadullah days before Mr. Dadullah was killed in the southwestern Helmand province in Afghanistan. Mr. Dadullah, probably the ’s foremost operational commander, was killed in a joint operation by Afghan security forces, American forces and Law Minister Malik Zafar Azam said the explosion could have been related to other bombings in the tribal regions and the presence of U.S. troops in Body parts could be seen scattered at the scene of today’s attack, and most of the bodies were charred. Victims were rushed to the nearby Lady Reading Hospital, about 200 meters from the spot, and the government declared an emergency. Two women and a child were among those killed. Mr. Toru said that the police found nuts and bolts, often used in suicide explosions, at the scene. “I was in the kitchen when I heard a big explosion and fell unconscious,” said Muslim Shah, a cook at the restaurant, who was injured. Chief Minister Akram Khan Durrani condemned the incident and announced that the families of those killed an injured would receive financial compensation. The explosion was the second recent suicide bombing in the area. On April 28, 32 people were killed when a suicide bomber struck a rally during an address by Interior Minister Aftab Ahmad Khan Sherpao in his town of Charsadda, northeast of Peshawar. On January 27, 15 people were killed, among them senior police officers, when a suicide bomber blew himself up in the heart of Peshawar City. More Articles in International &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. More Articles in International &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/world/asia/15cnd-pakista.html	Suicide Bombing Kills at Least 22 in Pakistan - New York Times Suicide Bombing Kills at Least 22 in Pakistan Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 15, 2007 PESHAWAR, May 15 — Twenty-two people were killed and 30 wounded here today when a suicide bomber struck a crowded restaurant in a busy part of the old city, police and hospital officials said. The bomb exploded at about 12:55 p.m. at the Marhaba Restaurant, which is on the ground floor of a four-story building opposite the historic Mohabat Khan mosque. The powerful explosion seriously damaged the hotel and caused damage to nearby shops and buildings. All that was left of the restaurant were shattered window panes and twisted fans hanging from the ceiling. It was not clear why the bomber targeted the restaurant, which is frequented by local residents who work in a nearby jewelry market and at the city’s biggest teaching hospital. But witnesses and police said the restaurant was owned by an Uzbek of Afghan origin who was affiliated with former Uzbek warlord Abdur Rashid Dostum. Posters of Mr. Dostrum adorned the walls of the restaurant. The owner of the restaurant, his brother and his son died in the explosion. “It definitely was a suicide bombing,” chief investigator, Fayaz Toru, told Dawn, an English-language newspaper in Karachi. He added that the initial investigation indicated the incident fit the pattern of similar suicide bombings in the area. News services reported that the provincial police chief, Sharif Virk, said he had recovered a suicide note written in an Afghan variant of Persian called Dari, as well as in Pashto, warning that those who spied for the United States face a similar fate. But Mr. Virk and other police investigators distanced themselves from those reports. Qazi Jamilur Rehman, head of the investigating team, denied that a suicide note had been recovered. “We are yet to reach any conclusion, but this can be said, that it was in reaction to the prevalent geo-political scenario in the region,” Mr. Virk told Dawn. Investigators and security officiald also denied news service reports that the suicide bombing may have been linked to the arrest of a close relative of Mullah Dadullah days before Mr. Dadullah was killed in the southwestern Helmand province in Afghanistan. Mr. Dadullah, probably the ’s foremost operational commander, was killed in a joint operation by Afghan security forces, American forces and Law Minister Malik Zafar Azam said the explosion could have been related to other bombings in the tribal regions and the presence of U.S. troops in Body parts could be seen scattered at the scene of today’s attack, and most of the bodies were charred. Victims were rushed to the nearby Lady Reading Hospital, about 200 meters from the spot, and the government declared an emergency. Two women and a child were among those killed. Mr. Toru said that the police found nuts and bolts, often used in suicide explosions, at the scene. “I was in the kitchen when I heard a big explosion and fell unconscious,” said Muslim Shah, a cook at the restaurant, who was injured. Chief Minister Akram Khan Durrani condemned the incident and announced that the families of those killed an injured would receive financial compensation. The explosion was the second recent suicide bombing in the area. On April 28, 32 people were killed when a suicide bomber struck a rally during an address by Interior Minister Aftab Ahmad Khan Sherpao in his town of Charsadda, northeast of Peshawar. On January 27, 15 people were killed, among them senior police officers, when a suicide bomber blew himself up in the heart of Peshawar City. More Articles in International &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. More Articles in International &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/world/asia/15cnd-pakista.html?ex=1336881600&en=29f7eb8bbf44d27c&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Suicide Bombing Kills at Least 22 in Pakistan - New York Times Suicide Bombing Kills at Least 22 in Pakistan Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 15, 2007 PESHAWAR, May 15 — Twenty-two people were killed and 30 wounded here today when a suicide bomber struck a crowded restaurant in a busy part of the old city, police and hospital officials said. The bomb exploded at about 12:55 p.m. at the Marhaba Restaurant, which is on the ground floor of a four-story building opposite the historic Mohabat Khan mosque. The powerful explosion seriously damaged the hotel and caused damage to nearby shops and buildings. All that was left of the restaurant were shattered window panes and twisted fans hanging from the ceiling. It was not clear why the bomber targeted the restaurant, which is frequented by local residents who work in a nearby jewelry market and at the city’s biggest teaching hospital. But witnesses and police said the restaurant was owned by an Uzbek of Afghan origin who was affiliated with former Uzbek warlord Abdur Rashid Dostum. Posters of Mr. Dostrum adorned the walls of the restaurant. The owner of the restaurant, his brother and his son died in the explosion. “It definitely was a suicide bombing,” chief investigator, Fayaz Toru, told Dawn, an English-language newspaper in Karachi. He added that the initial investigation indicated the incident fit the pattern of similar suicide bombings in the area. News services reported that the provincial police chief, Sharif Virk, said he had recovered a suicide note written in an Afghan variant of Persian called Dari, as well as in Pashto, warning that those who spied for the United States face a similar fate. But Mr. Virk and other police investigators distanced themselves from those reports. Qazi Jamilur Rehman, head of the investigating team, denied that a suicide note had been recovered. “We are yet to reach any conclusion, but this can be said, that it was in reaction to the prevalent geo-political scenario in the region,” Mr. Virk told Dawn. Investigators and security officiald also denied news service reports that the suicide bombing may have been linked to the arrest of a close relative of Mullah Dadullah days before Mr. Dadullah was killed in the southwestern Helmand province in Afghanistan. Mr. Dadullah, probably the ’s foremost operational commander, was killed in a joint operation by Afghan security forces, American forces and Law Minister Malik Zafar Azam said the explosion could have been related to other bombings in the tribal regions and the presence of U.S. troops in Body parts could be seen scattered at the scene of today’s attack, and most of the bodies were charred. Victims were rushed to the nearby Lady Reading Hospital, about 200 meters from the spot, and the government declared an emergency. Two women and a child were among those killed. Mr. Toru said that the police found nuts and bolts, often used in suicide explosions, at the scene. “I was in the kitchen when I heard a big explosion and fell unconscious,” said Muslim Shah, a cook at the restaurant, who was injured. Chief Minister Akram Khan Durrani condemned the incident and announced that the families of those killed an injured would receive financial compensation. The explosion was the second recent suicide bombing in the area. On April 28, 32 people were killed when a suicide bomber struck a rally during an address by Interior Minister Aftab Ahmad Khan Sherpao in his town of Charsadda, northeast of Peshawar. On January 27, 15 people were killed, among them senior police officers, when a suicide bomber blew himself up in the heart of Peshawar City. More Articles in International &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. More Articles in International &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/world/asia/15cnd-pakista.html?ex=1336881600&en=29f7eb8bbf44d27c&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Suicide Bombing Kills at Least 22 in Pakistan - New York Times Suicide Bombing Kills at Least 22 in Pakistan Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 15, 2007 PESHAWAR, May 15 — Twenty-two people were killed and 30 wounded here today when a suicide bomber struck a crowded restaurant in a busy part of the old city, police and hospital officials said. The bomb exploded at about 12:55 p.m. at the Marhaba Restaurant, which is on the ground floor of a four-story building opposite the historic Mohabat Khan mosque. The powerful explosion seriously damaged the hotel and caused damage to nearby shops and buildings. All that was left of the restaurant were shattered window panes and twisted fans hanging from the ceiling. It was not clear why the bomber targeted the restaurant, which is frequented by local residents who work in a nearby jewelry market and at the city’s biggest teaching hospital. But witnesses and police said the restaurant was owned by an Uzbek of Afghan origin who was affiliated with former Uzbek warlord Abdur Rashid Dostum. Posters of Mr. Dostrum adorned the walls of the restaurant. The owner of the restaurant, his brother and his son died in the explosion. “It definitely was a suicide bombing,” chief investigator, Fayaz Toru, told Dawn, an English-language newspaper in Karachi. He added that the initial investigation indicated the incident fit the pattern of similar suicide bombings in the area. News services reported that the provincial police chief, Sharif Virk, said he had recovered a suicide note written in an Afghan variant of Persian called Dari, as well as in Pashto, warning that those who spied for the United States face a similar fate. But Mr. Virk and other police investigators distanced themselves from those reports. Qazi Jamilur Rehman, head of the investigating team, denied that a suicide note had been recovered. “We are yet to reach any conclusion, but this can be said, that it was in reaction to the prevalent geo-political scenario in the region,” Mr. Virk told Dawn. Investigators and security officiald also denied news service reports that the suicide bombing may have been linked to the arrest of a close relative of Mullah Dadullah days before Mr. Dadullah was killed in the southwestern Helmand province in Afghanistan. Mr. Dadullah, probably the ’s foremost operational commander, was killed in a joint operation by Afghan security forces, American forces and Law Minister Malik Zafar Azam said the explosion could have been related to other bombings in the tribal regions and the presence of U.S. troops in Body parts could be seen scattered at the scene of today’s attack, and most of the bodies were charred. Victims were rushed to the nearby Lady Reading Hospital, about 200 meters from the spot, and the government declared an emergency. Two women and a child were among those killed. Mr. Toru said that the police found nuts and bolts, often used in suicide explosions, at the scene. “I was in the kitchen when I heard a big explosion and fell unconscious,” said Muslim Shah, a cook at the restaurant, who was injured. Chief Minister Akram Khan Durrani condemned the incident and announced that the families of those killed an injured would receive financial compensation. The explosion was the second recent suicide bombing in the area. On April 28, 32 people were killed when a suicide bomber struck a rally during an address by Interior Minister Aftab Ahmad Khan Sherpao in his town of Charsadda, northeast of Peshawar. On January 27, 15 people were killed, among them senior police officers, when a suicide bomber blew himself up in the heart of Peshawar City. More Articles in International &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. More Articles in International &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/washington/15cnd-attorneys.html	Gonzales Pressed Ailing Ashcroft on Spy Plan, Aide Says - New York Times Gonzales Pressed Ailing Ashcroft on Spy Plan, Aide Says Stephen Crowley/The New York Times Former Deputy Attorney General James Comey testifying before the Senate Judiciary Committee hearing today. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 15, 2007 WASHINGTON, May 15 — On the night of March 10, 2004, a high-ranking Justice Department official rushed to a Washington hospital to prevent two White House aides from taking advantage of the critically ill Attorney General, , the official testified today. One of those aides was , who was then White House counsel and eventually succeeded Mr. Ashcroft as Attorney General. “I was very upset,” said , who was deputy Attorney General at the time, in his testimony today before the Senate Judiciary Committee. “I was angry. I thought I had just witnessed an effort to take advantage of a very sick man, who did not have the powers of the attorney general because they had been transferred to me.” The hospital visit by Mr. Gonzales and Andrew H. Card Jr. , who was then White House chief of staff, has been disclosed before, but never in such dramatic, personal detail. Mr. Comey’s account offered a rare and titillating glimpse of a Washington power struggle, complete with a late-night showdown in the White House after a dramatic encounter in a darkened hospital room — in short, elements of a potboiler paperback novel. Mr. Comey related his story to the committee, which is investigating various aspects of Mr. Gonzales’s tenure as Attorney General, including the recent dismissals of eight and allegations that applicants for traditionally nonpartisan career prosecutor jobs were screened for political loyalties. Although Mr. Comey declined to say specifically what the business was that sent Mr. Gonzales to the bedside of Mr. Ashcroft in George Washington Hospital, where he lay critically ill with pancreatitis, it was clear that the subject was the ’s secret domestic surveillance program. The signature of Mr. Ashcroft or his surrogate was needed by the next day, March 11, in order to renew the program, which was still secret at that time. Since the existence of the program was disclosed by The New York Times in late 2005, it has been reported that it was the subject of a tense debate at the highest levels of the Bush administration, with some officials concerned that the program was not adequately supervised, and others having more fundamental worries. Around the time of the hospital incident, the White House suspended parts of the program for several months and imposed tougher requirements on the National Security Agency on how the program was to be used.Mr. Comey told the committee today that when Mr. Ashcroft was ill and he was in charge at the Justice Department, he told the White House he would not certify the program again “as to its legality.” On the night of March 10, as he was being driven home by his security detail, he got a telephone call from Mr. Ashcroft’s chief of staff, who had just been contacted by Mr. Ashcroft’s wife, Janet. Although Mrs. Ashcroft had banned visitors and telephone calls to her husband’s hospital room, she had just gotten a call from the White House telling her that Mr. Card and Mr. Gonzales were on their way to see her husband, Mr. Comey testified. “I have some recollection that the call was from the president himself, but I don’t know that for sure,” Mr. Comey said. He said his security detail then sped him to the hospital with sirens blaring and emergency lights flashing, while he telephoned the director of the , Robert S. Mueller 3d, from the car. Mr. Mueller shared his sense of urgency: “He said, ‘I’ll meet you at the hospital right now,’ ” Mr. Comey testified. When he got to the hospital, Mr. Comey recalled, “I got out of the car and ran up — literally, ran up the stairs with my security detail.” “What was your concern?” asked Senator , Democrat of New York, who was the chairman of today’s committee session. “I was concerned that, given how ill I knew the attorney general was, that there might be an effort to ask him to overrule me when he was in no condition to do that,” Mr. Comey replied. Mr. Comey recalled arriving at the darkened hospital room, where Mr. Ashcroft seemed hardly aware of his surroundings. For a time, only Mr. Comey and the Ashcrofts were in the room. Meanwhile, Mr. Mueller, who had not yet arrived, told Mr. Comey’s security detail by phone “not to allow me to be removed from the room under any circumstances,” Mr. Comey testified. Minutes later, he said, Mr. Gonzales and Mr. Card entered the room, with Mr. Gonzales carrying an envelope. “And then Mr. Gonzales began to discuss why they were there, to seek his approval for a matter,” Mr. Comey related. “And Attorney General Ashcroft then stunned me,” Mr. Comey went on: He raised his head from the pillow, reiterated his objections to the program, then lay back down, pointing to Mr. Comey as the attorney general during his illness. When Mr. Mueller arrived, “he had a brief, a memorable brief exchange with the attorney general, and then we went outside in the hallway,” Mr. Comey said. Mr. Gonzales and Mr. Card departed, but after a while, Mr. Card telephoned Mr. Comey and “demanded that I come to the White House immediately,” Mr. Comey said. “After what I just witnessed, I will not meet with you without a witness, and I intend that witness to be the solicitor general of the United States,” Mr. Comey said he told Mr. Card. Whereupon, Mr. Comey said, he contacted the solicitor general, , who was at a dinner party, and arranged to go with him to the White House. At first, Mr. Card would not let Mr. Olson enter his office, Mr. Comey said; he then had a considerably calmer private chat with Mr. Card for a quarter-hour, after which Mr. Olson entered the room and took part in the conversation. “Mr. Card was concerned that he had heard reports that there were to be a large number of resignations at the Department of Justice,” Mr. Comey recalled. Mr. Ashcroft had such serious reservations about the program that he considered resigning then, Mr. Comey testified. Instead, he stayed on until November 2004. Mr. Mueller, too, considered resigning, Mr. Comey said. “You had conversations with him about it?” Mr. Schumer asked. “Yes,” Mr. Comey replied.The surveillance program was reauthorized on March 11, 2004, without a signature from the Department of Justice “attesting to its legality,” Mr. Comey testified. Mr. Comey said today that he intended to resign the next day, March 12. But on that day, terrorists carried out deadly train bombings in Madrid, and he put his plans on hold and remained on the job until August 2005. Even before Mr. Comey’s testimony, Mr. Schumer and Senator of Pennsylvania, the panel’s ranking Republican, reiterated their low opinion of Mr. Gonzales as attorney general. “He’s presided over a Justice Department where being a, quote, loyal Bushie seems to be more important than being a seasoned professional, where what the White House wants is more important than what the law requires or what prudence dictates,” Mr. Schumer said. “It is the decision of Mr. Gonzales as to whether he stays or goes, but it is hard to see how the Department of Justice can function and perform its important duties with Mr. Gonzales remaining where he is,” Mr Specter said. “And beyond Mr. Gonzales’ decision, it’s a matter for the president as to whether the president will retain the attorney general or not.” More Articles in Washington &#x00bb; Gain access to The Archive - get it now with TimesSelect To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. More Articles in Washington &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France March 3, 1962 New Yorker Cover N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/washington/15cnd-attorneys.html	Gonzales Pressed Ailing Ashcroft on Spy Plan, Aide Says - New York Times Gonzales Pressed Ailing Ashcroft on Spy Plan, Aide Says Stephen Crowley/The New York Times Former Deputy Attorney General James Comey testifying before the Senate Judiciary Committee hearing today. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 15, 2007 WASHINGTON, May 15 — On the night of March 10, 2004, a high-ranking Justice Department official rushed to a Washington hospital to prevent two White House aides from taking advantage of the critically ill Attorney General, , the official testified today. One of those aides was , who was then White House counsel and eventually succeeded Mr. Ashcroft as Attorney General. “I was very upset,” said , who was deputy Attorney General at the time, in his testimony today before the Senate Judiciary Committee. “I was angry. I thought I had just witnessed an effort to take advantage of a very sick man, who did not have the powers of the attorney general because they had been transferred to me.” The hospital visit by Mr. Gonzales and Andrew H. Card Jr. , who was then White House chief of staff, has been disclosed before, but never in such dramatic, personal detail. Mr. Comey’s account offered a rare and titillating glimpse of a Washington power struggle, complete with a late-night showdown in the White House after a dramatic encounter in a darkened hospital room — in short, elements of a potboiler paperback novel. Mr. Comey related his story to the committee, which is investigating various aspects of Mr. Gonzales’s tenure as Attorney General, including the recent dismissals of eight and allegations that applicants for traditionally nonpartisan career prosecutor jobs were screened for political loyalties. Although Mr. Comey declined to say specifically what the business was that sent Mr. Gonzales to the bedside of Mr. Ashcroft in George Washington Hospital, where he lay critically ill with pancreatitis, it was clear that the subject was the ’s secret domestic surveillance program. The signature of Mr. Ashcroft or his surrogate was needed by the next day, March 11, in order to renew the program, which was still secret at that time. Since the existence of the program was disclosed by The New York Times in late 2005, it has been reported that it was the subject of a tense debate at the highest levels of the Bush administration, with some officials concerned that the program was not adequately supervised, and others having more fundamental worries. Around the time of the hospital incident, the White House suspended parts of the program for several months and imposed tougher requirements on the National Security Agency on how the program was to be used.Mr. Comey told the committee today that when Mr. Ashcroft was ill and he was in charge at the Justice Department, he told the White House he would not certify the program again “as to its legality.” On the night of March 10, as he was being driven home by his security detail, he got a telephone call from Mr. Ashcroft’s chief of staff, who had just been contacted by Mr. Ashcroft’s wife, Janet. Although Mrs. Ashcroft had banned visitors and telephone calls to her husband’s hospital room, she had just gotten a call from the White House telling her that Mr. Card and Mr. Gonzales were on their way to see her husband, Mr. Comey testified. “I have some recollection that the call was from the president himself, but I don’t know that for sure,” Mr. Comey said. He said his security detail then sped him to the hospital with sirens blaring and emergency lights flashing, while he telephoned the director of the , Robert S. Mueller 3d, from the car. Mr. Mueller shared his sense of urgency: “He said, ‘I’ll meet you at the hospital right now,’ ” Mr. Comey testified. When he got to the hospital, Mr. Comey recalled, “I got out of the car and ran up — literally, ran up the stairs with my security detail.” “What was your concern?” asked Senator , Democrat of New York, who was the chairman of today’s committee session. “I was concerned that, given how ill I knew the attorney general was, that there might be an effort to ask him to overrule me when he was in no condition to do that,” Mr. Comey replied. Mr. Comey recalled arriving at the darkened hospital room, where Mr. Ashcroft seemed hardly aware of his surroundings. For a time, only Mr. Comey and the Ashcrofts were in the room. Meanwhile, Mr. Mueller, who had not yet arrived, told Mr. Comey’s security detail by phone “not to allow me to be removed from the room under any circumstances,” Mr. Comey testified. Minutes later, he said, Mr. Gonzales and Mr. Card entered the room, with Mr. Gonzales carrying an envelope. “And then Mr. Gonzales began to discuss why they were there, to seek his approval for a matter,” Mr. Comey related. “And Attorney General Ashcroft then stunned me,” Mr. Comey went on: He raised his head from the pillow, reiterated his objections to the program, then lay back down, pointing to Mr. Comey as the attorney general during his illness. When Mr. Mueller arrived, “he had a brief, a memorable brief exchange with the attorney general, and then we went outside in the hallway,” Mr. Comey said. Mr. Gonzales and Mr. Card departed, but after a while, Mr. Card telephoned Mr. Comey and “demanded that I come to the White House immediately,” Mr. Comey said. “After what I just witnessed, I will not meet with you without a witness, and I intend that witness to be the solicitor general of the United States,” Mr. Comey said he told Mr. Card. Whereupon, Mr. Comey said, he contacted the solicitor general, , who was at a dinner party, and arranged to go with him to the White House. At first, Mr. Card would not let Mr. Olson enter his office, Mr. Comey said; he then had a considerably calmer private chat with Mr. Card for a quarter-hour, after which Mr. Olson entered the room and took part in the conversation. “Mr. Card was concerned that he had heard reports that there were to be a large number of resignations at the Department of Justice,” Mr. Comey recalled. Mr. Ashcroft had such serious reservations about the program that he considered resigning then, Mr. Comey testified. Instead, he stayed on until November 2004. Mr. Mueller, too, considered resigning, Mr. Comey said. “You had conversations with him about it?” Mr. Schumer asked. “Yes,” Mr. Comey replied.The surveillance program was reauthorized on March 11, 2004, without a signature from the Department of Justice “attesting to its legality,” Mr. Comey testified. Mr. Comey said today that he intended to resign the next day, March 12. But on that day, terrorists carried out deadly train bombings in Madrid, and he put his plans on hold and remained on the job until August 2005. Even before Mr. Comey’s testimony, Mr. Schumer and Senator of Pennsylvania, the panel’s ranking Republican, reiterated their low opinion of Mr. Gonzales as attorney general. “He’s presided over a Justice Department where being a, quote, loyal Bushie seems to be more important than being a seasoned professional, where what the White House wants is more important than what the law requires or what prudence dictates,” Mr. Schumer said. “It is the decision of Mr. Gonzales as to whether he stays or goes, but it is hard to see how the Department of Justice can function and perform its important duties with Mr. Gonzales remaining where he is,” Mr Specter said. “And beyond Mr. Gonzales’ decision, it’s a matter for the president as to whether the president will retain the attorney general or not.” More Articles in Washington &#x00bb; Gain access to The Archive - get it now with TimesSelect To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. More Articles in Washington &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France March 3, 1962 New Yorker Cover N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/index.html?partner=rssnyt	The New York Times - Breaking News, World News & Multimedia Tuesday, May 15, 2007 NYT Archive Since 1981 Gonzales Pressed Ailing Ashcroft on Spy Plan, Aide Says James B. Comey’s account before the Senate Judiciary Committee offered a rare and titillating glimpse of a Washington power struggle. More From The Lede Tyco Paying $3 Billion to Settle Shareholder Suits The settlement, described as the largest payment in such a suit, seeks to put to rest a case that became synonymous with corporate excess. ‘Spring Awakening’ Gets 11 Tony Nominations In a season rich with contenders, “Spring Awakening,” a dark rock musical, led the field of Tony nominations. Times Topics: Tony Awards Rev. Jerry Falwell Is Dead at 73 Jerry Falwell, the fundamentalist preacher who founded the Moral Majority, died today shortly after he was found unconscious in his office at Liberty University. Readers' Opinions: Falwell's Legacy? In Study, College-Prep Classes Left Many Unready Only 26 percent of high school students who take the core courses are well prepared for college, the study says. Inflation Is Tame Despite Rising Gas Prices By JEREMY W. PETERS Consumer prices rose 0.4 percent in April, while the core rate, which excludes food and gas, rose only 0.2 percent. Suicide Bombing Kills at Least 22 in Pakistan At Least 7 Killed in Gaza Fighting Thomson and Reuters Agree on Merger The Lede: Shock Jocks Suspended The Caucus: Clues to Tonight’s Debate The Lede: Unseating the Border Patrol Chief The Empire Zone: Giuliani Aide Lashes Back DealBook: ‘Private Equity Can Go Anyplace’ Talk to the Newsroom » The Times’s Matthew Purdy answers reader questions. Is Amputee Sprinter Too-Abled? Should athletes with prosthetics compete with able-bodied athletes? Clinton, Obama to Back Iraq Fund Cutoff Philadelphia Holds Mayoral Primary ABC Adds 11 New Series Brazil Man Guilty in Killing of U.S. Nun “Canyon Passage” is a great western that resembles no other. The New York City police commissioner Raymond W. Kelly turns critic when viewing "The Naked City." No One Says ‘9/11.’ Allusions to the attacks are becoming fair game for movies and TV. Herbert: Paid Sick Days What Gets Left Behind When they move, New Yorkers “forget” to pack all sorts of things, from television sets and air-conditioners to drugs and handcuffs. More in Real Estate Mortgage News and Rates GEM IN THE CITY- CHATHAM44 ... See All Featured Properties Place a Classified Ad » In the Desert, an Oasis for Drag Racing Gearheads gather near Dubai to test their mettle at a complex for quarter-mile drag racing. Submit photos and comment on other readers' cars. Also, keep track of events Go to Photo Gallery Place a Classified Ad » Post a job online More in Job Market Browse jobs by industry Browse jobs by location Consultants and résumé writers might improve the odds of landing a high-paying job. Place a Classified Ad » Find a Classifieds listing Home & Garden Directory Small Inns & Lodges Post a classifieds ad online GUARANTEED P2P LOANS UP TO $25000 WITH LOW INTEREST RATES. GO TO www.prosper.com SIGN UP F......... Place a Classified Ad » SAVE 50% ON HOME DELIVERY Have The New York Times waiting for you, for as little as $3.15 a week. N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker Earn 5.05% APY - Open a Complete Savings Acct from E*TRADE Bank Arabian capital of culture and strategic hub forges ahead Be Prepared. Fight ID Theft. Equifax Credit Watch™. Equifax.com Photos, fine art, books and more. Inspectors Cite Big Gain by Iran on Nuclear Fuel Turkish City Counters Fear of Islam’s Reach Bank’s Report Says Wolfowitz Violated Ethics Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Bush Calls for Work for Higher Fuel Efficiency U. of Texas Fires Officer Over Tie to Loan Company Gonzales’s Deputy Quits Justice Department Bush Calls for Work for Higher Fuel Efficiency Bank’s Report Says Wolfowitz Violated Ethics N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; The Freshman: Barely in Office, but G.O.P. Rivals Are Circling Lawyers Argue Legal Status of Gay Unions After Ordnance Scare, Beachgoers Told to Dig With Care A Giant Takes On Physics’ Biggest Questions Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Scientists Back Off Theory of a Colder Europe in a Warming World Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession The Consumer: As Demand for Donor Eggs Soars, High Prices Stir Ethical Concerns Oklahoma Chides Insurer in Medicare Marketing Case U. of Texas Fires Officer Over Tie to Loan Company Prestigious Private Schools Settle Rights Suit by a Non-Hawaiian 2 Suspended for School Prank That Scared Pupils in Tennessee What Gets Left Behind Streetscapes | Readers’ Questions: How the West Side Was Won National Perspectives: Reviving a No Man’s Land Along the Tennessee River News Analysis: In Deal, a Test for the U.A.W. Cerberus Goes Where No Firm Has Gone Before A Corporate Divorce on the Cheap New Motorola Phones Aim at High-End Market States Fault MySpace on Predator Issues On the Web, an Advanced Carbon Calculator for Personal Use Posada Is One Yankee That Can’t Be Replaced Oracle Rebounds in Challenger Series An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Family Travel | Shanghai for Kids: Amid Wheeler-Dealers, an Urban Playground Family Travel | In the Footsteps of Linnaeus: A Vast Garden of Knowledge, Still Blooming Today The Cape Town Area’s Endless Possibilities Dining & Wine &#x00bb; Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country Vital Signs: Nutrition: A Cardiovascular Argument for Eating Whole Grains The Way We Live Now: Ocean Blues Home & Garden &#x00bb; Aspiring to the Throne At Home With Charlie White: Order and Chaos in a Single Heartbeat In the Garden: It Takes a Hammer to Grow This Salad Fashion & Style &#x00bb; Clearly, Frankly, Unabashedly Disabled Girth and Nudity, a Pictorial Mission Modern Love: My First Lesson in Motherhood A Corporate Divorce on the Cheap News Analysis: In Deal, a Test for the U.A.W. A Chief With Union Roots Enters a Proving Ground Editorial: In Divided New Orleans Op-Ed Contributor: Friend or Faux? How to Define Progress in Iraq (6 Letters) ‘Spring Awakening’ Gets 11 Tony Nominations For ABC, Dramas Fill Out the Lineup Theater Review | 'Passing Strange': Look Back in Chagrin: A Rocker’s Progress Critic’s Choice: New DVDs Film: Moyduh, He Watched: Commissioner Turns Critic Film: No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. ‘Spring Awakening’ Gets 11 Tony Nominations Broadway’s Year of Tepid Hits Theater Review | 'Passing Strange': Look Back in Chagrin: A Rocker’s Progress 'The Pesthouse,' by Jim Crace: The Pesthouse 'Bad Luck and Trouble,' by Lee Child: He’s Taut of Style and Light of Foot Who Killed Kennedy? One Man’s Answer Week in Review &#x00bb; Speed Bump: When the Wheels Come Off a Sport The Nation: Genetic Testing + Abortion = ??? The World: See You in September, Whatever That Means The Flight From Iraq Writing in the Dark Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France About the NYT Co. Jobs at the NYT Co. Add New York Times headlines to your site Add New York Times RSS Feeds Get home delivery of The Times for as low as $2.99 a week — that’s 50% off. The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/index.html?partner=rssnyt	The New York Times - Breaking News, World News & Multimedia Tuesday, May 15, 2007 NYT Archive Since 1981 Gonzales Pressed Ailing Ashcroft on Spy Plan, Aide Says James B. Comey’s account before the Senate Judiciary Committee offered a rare and titillating glimpse of a Washington power struggle. More From The Lede Tyco Paying $3 Billion to Settle Shareholder Suits The settlement, described as the largest payment in such a suit, seeks to put to rest a case that became synonymous with corporate excess. ‘Spring Awakening’ Gets 11 Tony Nominations In a season rich with contenders, “Spring Awakening,” a dark rock musical, led the field of Tony nominations. Times Topics: Tony Awards Rev. Jerry Falwell Is Dead at 73 Jerry Falwell, the fundamentalist preacher who founded the Moral Majority, died today shortly after he was found unconscious in his office at Liberty University. Readers' Opinions: Falwell's Legacy? In Study, College-Prep Classes Left Many Unready Only 26 percent of high school students who take the core courses are well prepared for college, the study says. Inflation Is Tame Despite Rising Gas Prices By JEREMY W. PETERS Consumer prices rose 0.4 percent in April, while the core rate, which excludes food and gas, rose only 0.2 percent. Suicide Bombing Kills at Least 22 in Pakistan At Least 7 Killed in Gaza Fighting Thomson and Reuters Agree on Merger The Lede: Shock Jocks Suspended The Caucus: Clues to Tonight’s Debate The Lede: Unseating the Border Patrol Chief The Empire Zone: Giuliani Aide Lashes Back DealBook: ‘Private Equity Can Go Anyplace’ Talk to the Newsroom » The Times’s Matthew Purdy answers reader questions. Is Amputee Sprinter Too-Abled? Should athletes with prosthetics compete with able-bodied athletes? Clinton, Obama to Back Iraq Fund Cutoff Philadelphia Holds Mayoral Primary ABC Adds 11 New Series Brazil Man Guilty in Killing of U.S. Nun “Canyon Passage” is a great western that resembles no other. The New York City police commissioner Raymond W. Kelly turns critic when viewing "The Naked City." No One Says ‘9/11.’ Allusions to the attacks are becoming fair game for movies and TV. Herbert: Paid Sick Days What Gets Left Behind When they move, New Yorkers “forget” to pack all sorts of things, from television sets and air-conditioners to drugs and handcuffs. More in Real Estate Mortgage News and Rates GEM IN THE CITY- CHATHAM44 ... See All Featured Properties Place a Classified Ad » In the Desert, an Oasis for Drag Racing Gearheads gather near Dubai to test their mettle at a complex for quarter-mile drag racing. Submit photos and comment on other readers' cars. Also, keep track of events Go to Photo Gallery Place a Classified Ad » Post a job online More in Job Market Browse jobs by industry Browse jobs by location Consultants and résumé writers might improve the odds of landing a high-paying job. Place a Classified Ad » Find a Classifieds listing Home & Garden Directory Small Inns & Lodges Post a classifieds ad online GUARANTEED P2P LOANS UP TO $25000 WITH LOW INTEREST RATES. GO TO www.prosper.com SIGN UP F......... Place a Classified Ad » SAVE 50% ON HOME DELIVERY Have The New York Times waiting for you, for as little as $3.15 a week. N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker Earn 5.05% APY - Open a Complete Savings Acct from E*TRADE Bank Arabian capital of culture and strategic hub forges ahead Be Prepared. Fight ID Theft. Equifax Credit Watch™. Equifax.com Photos, fine art, books and more. Inspectors Cite Big Gain by Iran on Nuclear Fuel Turkish City Counters Fear of Islam’s Reach Bank’s Report Says Wolfowitz Violated Ethics Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Bush Calls for Work for Higher Fuel Efficiency U. of Texas Fires Officer Over Tie to Loan Company Gonzales’s Deputy Quits Justice Department Bush Calls for Work for Higher Fuel Efficiency Bank’s Report Says Wolfowitz Violated Ethics N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; The Freshman: Barely in Office, but G.O.P. Rivals Are Circling Lawyers Argue Legal Status of Gay Unions After Ordnance Scare, Beachgoers Told to Dig With Care A Giant Takes On Physics’ Biggest Questions Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Scientists Back Off Theory of a Colder Europe in a Warming World Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession The Consumer: As Demand for Donor Eggs Soars, High Prices Stir Ethical Concerns Oklahoma Chides Insurer in Medicare Marketing Case U. of Texas Fires Officer Over Tie to Loan Company Prestigious Private Schools Settle Rights Suit by a Non-Hawaiian 2 Suspended for School Prank That Scared Pupils in Tennessee What Gets Left Behind Streetscapes | Readers’ Questions: How the West Side Was Won National Perspectives: Reviving a No Man’s Land Along the Tennessee River News Analysis: In Deal, a Test for the U.A.W. Cerberus Goes Where No Firm Has Gone Before A Corporate Divorce on the Cheap New Motorola Phones Aim at High-End Market States Fault MySpace on Predator Issues On the Web, an Advanced Carbon Calculator for Personal Use Posada Is One Yankee That Can’t Be Replaced Oracle Rebounds in Challenger Series An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Family Travel | Shanghai for Kids: Amid Wheeler-Dealers, an Urban Playground Family Travel | In the Footsteps of Linnaeus: A Vast Garden of Knowledge, Still Blooming Today The Cape Town Area’s Endless Possibilities Dining & Wine &#x00bb; Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country Vital Signs: Nutrition: A Cardiovascular Argument for Eating Whole Grains The Way We Live Now: Ocean Blues Home & Garden &#x00bb; Aspiring to the Throne At Home With Charlie White: Order and Chaos in a Single Heartbeat In the Garden: It Takes a Hammer to Grow This Salad Fashion & Style &#x00bb; Clearly, Frankly, Unabashedly Disabled Girth and Nudity, a Pictorial Mission Modern Love: My First Lesson in Motherhood A Corporate Divorce on the Cheap News Analysis: In Deal, a Test for the U.A.W. A Chief With Union Roots Enters a Proving Ground Editorial: In Divided New Orleans Op-Ed Contributor: Friend or Faux? How to Define Progress in Iraq (6 Letters) ‘Spring Awakening’ Gets 11 Tony Nominations For ABC, Dramas Fill Out the Lineup Theater Review | 'Passing Strange': Look Back in Chagrin: A Rocker’s Progress Critic’s Choice: New DVDs Film: Moyduh, He Watched: Commissioner Turns Critic Film: No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. ‘Spring Awakening’ Gets 11 Tony Nominations Broadway’s Year of Tepid Hits Theater Review | 'Passing Strange': Look Back in Chagrin: A Rocker’s Progress 'The Pesthouse,' by Jim Crace: The Pesthouse 'Bad Luck and Trouble,' by Lee Child: He’s Taut of Style and Light of Foot Who Killed Kennedy? One Man’s Answer Week in Review &#x00bb; Speed Bump: When the Wheels Come Off a Sport The Nation: Genetic Testing + Abortion = ??? The World: See You in September, Whatever That Means The Flight From Iraq Writing in the Dark Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France About the NYT Co. Jobs at the NYT Co. Add New York Times headlines to your site Add New York Times RSS Feeds Get home delivery of The Times for as low as $2.99 a week — that’s 50% off. The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/world/middleeast/15cnd-gaza.html?ex=1336881600&en=f77f23bbbf455bcd&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	At Least 7 Killed in Gaza Fighting - New York Times At Least 7 Killed in Gaza Fighting Mahmud Hams/Agence France-Presse — Getty Images A Palestinian child today in front of the bodies of slain Fatah security officers at the morgue in the Deir el-Balah hospital in the Gaza Strip. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 15, 2007 NAHAL OZ, Israel, May 15 &#151; Fighters from the military wing of , one of the two main Palestinian political factions, attacked security forces loyal to the rival Fatah faction at a location in Gaza near the border with Israel today, killing nine people, according to Fatah officials. Skip to next paragraph Mahmud Hams/Agence France-Presse — Getty Images Palestinians today carrying the body of a security force member into the morgue in the Deir el-Balah hospital in the Gaza Strip. The clashes extended an outbreak of factional violence to a third day, threatening the survival of the two-month-old &#8220;unity&#8221; government of the Palestinian Authority, the result of a power-sharing agreement between Hamas and Fatah. The attack by Hamas fighters on the Presidential Guard, which is loyal to the Palestinian president, of Fatah, seemed to be a direct challenge to his authority. Raising the stakes further, the Hamas military wing said that it had fired the Qassam rockets that hit the Israeli border town of Sderot this evening, wounding several civilians, one seriously. The Palestinian information minister, Mustafa Barghouti, warned that if the unity government collapses, the whole Palestinian Authority could go down with it. Israeli troops fired today at two armed Palestinians who were spotted close to the border fence opposite Nahal Oz, a kibbutz that abuts the Gaza Strip, killing one of the two, an army spokeswoman said. Local news reports identified the two as members of the Presidential Guard who were fleeing the Hamas attack at the Karni commercial border crossing, which is nearby. At least one other Palestinian was killed in factional violence in Gaza City today, bringing the death toll to about 20 since the clashes resumed on Sunday after three months of relative calm. Israeli tanks lined up on the Israeli side of the border this morning while fierce gun battles raged among the Palestinian forces on the other side, but the tanks had drawn back by early afternoon. In the evening, a barrage of Qassam rockets fired from Gaza struck Sderot, hitting a house and a school, army officials said. According to Israel Radio, Hamas said the rockets were meant to commemorate Nakba Day, when Palestinians mark the anniversary of what they call the &#8220;catastrophe&#8221; of the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948. During the day, the Prime Minister of Israel, , met with King Abdullah of Jordan in the port city of Aqaba. David Baker, an official in Mr. Olmert&#8217;s office, said the leaders had a &#8220;warm and productive meeting, in which they discussed ways of promoting the Israeli-Palestinian process.&#8221; Mr. Baker said the leaders also discussed ways of shoring up the position of Mr. Abbas and other relative moderates in the Palestinian Authority. But the intensity of today&#8217;s violence in Gaza raised serious doubts about the viability of the joint government, and about the future of the Palestinian Authority as a whole. One of the main purposes of the power-sharing agreement was to stop factional violence that was threatening to spiral into civil war. &#8220;If this government falls, it means the collapse of the Palestinian Authority, and with it, the end of all agreements,&#8221; said Mr. Barghouti, the government spokesman. Speaking by telephone from Ramallah, he said that President Abbas had told the Palestinian cabinet on Monday night, &#8220;This is my government, and if it falls, I will fall with it.&#8221; The attack on the Fatah-aligned forces guarding the Karni crossing was the most audacious show of force by Hamas since the violence restarted, and it ratcheted up the hostility level between the warring factions. A spokesman for Hamas&#8217;s police force, Islam Shahwan, said that today&#8217;s violence started with the killing of Ibrahim Maniah, 45, a member of the Hamas-linked Qassam Brigade militia, by members of the Fatah-linked Presidential Guard in the Gaza neighborhood of Sajaiya, near the Karni crossing. Mr. Shahwan called the killing an assasination; Fatah officials denied that, and said Mr. Maniah was killed during street clashes. Mr. Abbas&#8217;s Presidential Guard is responsible for security at the Karni crossing. A spokesman for the Presidential Guard, Wael Dahab, said that Hamas raided a security position there, firing guns and rocket-propelled grenades. Three jeeps from the pro-Fatah National Security Forces drove toward Karni to provide backup to the Presidential Guard, but one of the vehicles overturned on the road, Fatah spokesmen said. Tawfiq Abu Houssa, a Fatah security official, said that Qassam Brigade members then went up to the overturned jeep and killed the seven men inside, shooting them &#8220;in cold blood, at close range.&#8221; He said their weapons were stolen. A Hamas spokesman, Fawzi Barhoum, said that the &#8220;Fatah accusations came without any investigation.&#8221; Earlier, Hamas spokesmen said Israel was to blame for the deaths of the National Security Force members, saying they were killed by a tank shell fired from across the border that struck the jeep. But the Israeli army spokeswoman denied that any shells had been fired. The Palestinian information minister, Mr. Barghouti, a political independent, said that the day&#8217;s events were still under investigation, and that &#8220;both sides&#8221; were responsible for the violence. By the afternoon, Gaza was mostly quiet, though sporadic bursts of gunfire could be heard. Across the border in the Nahal Oz kibbutz, tractors worked to harvest a carrot crop until a Qassam rocket landed in an open field at about 3 p.m., the first rocket to be fired today, the Israeli army said. Inside Gaza the atmosphere remained tense. Most people stayed at home, stores were closed, and gunmen from Hamas or Fatah took up positions in taller buildings in Gaza City, while Egyptian officials worked in earnest to try to mediate and restore calm. &#8220;With every new confrontation, the ability of the leaders to control their people on the ground is reduced,&#8221; said Mr. Barghouti. &#8220;There are certain people who don&#8217;t want calm.&#8221; Taghreed El-Khodary contributed reporting from Gaza City. More Articles in International &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Jordan&#8217;s King Calls Off Visit to the West Bank Hamas-Fatah Gunfight Worsens Factional Strife in Gaza Clash at U.N.-Run Gaza School Kills One and Wounds 6 World Briefing | Middle East: Gaza: Demands For BBC Journalist Rejected More Articles in International &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/world/middleeast/15cnd-gaza.html?ex=1336881600&en=f77f23bbbf455bcd&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	At Least 7 Killed in Gaza Fighting - New York Times At Least 7 Killed in Gaza Fighting Mahmud Hams/Agence France-Presse — Getty Images A Palestinian child today in front of the bodies of slain Fatah security officers at the morgue in the Deir el-Balah hospital in the Gaza Strip. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 15, 2007 NAHAL OZ, Israel, May 15 &#151; Fighters from the military wing of , one of the two main Palestinian political factions, attacked security forces loyal to the rival Fatah faction at a location in Gaza near the border with Israel today, killing nine people, according to Fatah officials. Skip to next paragraph Mahmud Hams/Agence France-Presse — Getty Images Palestinians today carrying the body of a security force member into the morgue in the Deir el-Balah hospital in the Gaza Strip. The clashes extended an outbreak of factional violence to a third day, threatening the survival of the two-month-old &#8220;unity&#8221; government of the Palestinian Authority, the result of a power-sharing agreement between Hamas and Fatah. The attack by Hamas fighters on the Presidential Guard, which is loyal to the Palestinian president, of Fatah, seemed to be a direct challenge to his authority. Raising the stakes further, the Hamas military wing said that it had fired the Qassam rockets that hit the Israeli border town of Sderot this evening, wounding several civilians, one seriously. The Palestinian information minister, Mustafa Barghouti, warned that if the unity government collapses, the whole Palestinian Authority could go down with it. Israeli troops fired today at two armed Palestinians who were spotted close to the border fence opposite Nahal Oz, a kibbutz that abuts the Gaza Strip, killing one of the two, an army spokeswoman said. Local news reports identified the two as members of the Presidential Guard who were fleeing the Hamas attack at the Karni commercial border crossing, which is nearby. At least one other Palestinian was killed in factional violence in Gaza City today, bringing the death toll to about 20 since the clashes resumed on Sunday after three months of relative calm. Israeli tanks lined up on the Israeli side of the border this morning while fierce gun battles raged among the Palestinian forces on the other side, but the tanks had drawn back by early afternoon. In the evening, a barrage of Qassam rockets fired from Gaza struck Sderot, hitting a house and a school, army officials said. According to Israel Radio, Hamas said the rockets were meant to commemorate Nakba Day, when Palestinians mark the anniversary of what they call the &#8220;catastrophe&#8221; of the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948. During the day, the Prime Minister of Israel, , met with King Abdullah of Jordan in the port city of Aqaba. David Baker, an official in Mr. Olmert&#8217;s office, said the leaders had a &#8220;warm and productive meeting, in which they discussed ways of promoting the Israeli-Palestinian process.&#8221; Mr. Baker said the leaders also discussed ways of shoring up the position of Mr. Abbas and other relative moderates in the Palestinian Authority. But the intensity of today&#8217;s violence in Gaza raised serious doubts about the viability of the joint government, and about the future of the Palestinian Authority as a whole. One of the main purposes of the power-sharing agreement was to stop factional violence that was threatening to spiral into civil war. &#8220;If this government falls, it means the collapse of the Palestinian Authority, and with it, the end of all agreements,&#8221; said Mr. Barghouti, the government spokesman. Speaking by telephone from Ramallah, he said that President Abbas had told the Palestinian cabinet on Monday night, &#8220;This is my government, and if it falls, I will fall with it.&#8221; The attack on the Fatah-aligned forces guarding the Karni crossing was the most audacious show of force by Hamas since the violence restarted, and it ratcheted up the hostility level between the warring factions. A spokesman for Hamas&#8217;s police force, Islam Shahwan, said that today&#8217;s violence started with the killing of Ibrahim Maniah, 45, a member of the Hamas-linked Qassam Brigade militia, by members of the Fatah-linked Presidential Guard in the Gaza neighborhood of Sajaiya, near the Karni crossing. Mr. Shahwan called the killing an assasination; Fatah officials denied that, and said Mr. Maniah was killed during street clashes. Mr. Abbas&#8217;s Presidential Guard is responsible for security at the Karni crossing. A spokesman for the Presidential Guard, Wael Dahab, said that Hamas raided a security position there, firing guns and rocket-propelled grenades. Three jeeps from the pro-Fatah National Security Forces drove toward Karni to provide backup to the Presidential Guard, but one of the vehicles overturned on the road, Fatah spokesmen said. Tawfiq Abu Houssa, a Fatah security official, said that Qassam Brigade members then went up to the overturned jeep and killed the seven men inside, shooting them &#8220;in cold blood, at close range.&#8221; He said their weapons were stolen. A Hamas spokesman, Fawzi Barhoum, said that the &#8220;Fatah accusations came without any investigation.&#8221; Earlier, Hamas spokesmen said Israel was to blame for the deaths of the National Security Force members, saying they were killed by a tank shell fired from across the border that struck the jeep. But the Israeli army spokeswoman denied that any shells had been fired. The Palestinian information minister, Mr. Barghouti, a political independent, said that the day&#8217;s events were still under investigation, and that &#8220;both sides&#8221; were responsible for the violence. By the afternoon, Gaza was mostly quiet, though sporadic bursts of gunfire could be heard. Across the border in the Nahal Oz kibbutz, tractors worked to harvest a carrot crop until a Qassam rocket landed in an open field at about 3 p.m., the first rocket to be fired today, the Israeli army said. Inside Gaza the atmosphere remained tense. Most people stayed at home, stores were closed, and gunmen from Hamas or Fatah took up positions in taller buildings in Gaza City, while Egyptian officials worked in earnest to try to mediate and restore calm. &#8220;With every new confrontation, the ability of the leaders to control their people on the ground is reduced,&#8221; said Mr. Barghouti. &#8220;There are certain people who don&#8217;t want calm.&#8221; Taghreed El-Khodary contributed reporting from Gaza City. More Articles in International &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Jordan&#8217;s King Calls Off Visit to the West Bank Hamas-Fatah Gunfight Worsens Factional Strife in Gaza Clash at U.N.-Run Gaza School Kills One and Wounds 6 World Briefing | Middle East: Gaza: Demands For BBC Journalist Rejected More Articles in International &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/washington/15cnd-attorneys.html?ex=1336881600&en=246b34c8906ddfc4&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Gonzales Pressed Ailing Ashcroft on Spy Plan, Aide Says - New York Times Gonzales Pressed Ailing Ashcroft on Spy Plan, Aide Says Stephen Crowley/The New York Times Former Deputy Attorney General James Comey testifying before the Senate Judiciary Committee hearing today. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 15, 2007 WASHINGTON, May 15 &#151; On the night of March 10, 2004, a high-ranking Justice Department official rushed to a Washington hospital to prevent two White House aides from taking advantage of the critically ill Attorney General, , the official testified today. One of those aides was , who was then White House counsel and eventually succeeded Mr. Ashcroft as Attorney General. &#8220;I was very upset,&#8221; said , who was deputy Attorney General at the time, in his testimony today before the Senate Judiciary Committee. &#8220;I was angry. I thought I had just witnessed an effort to take advantage of a very sick man, who did not have the powers of the attorney general because they had been transferred to me.&#8221; The hospital visit by Mr. Gonzales and Andrew H. Card Jr. , who was then White House chief of staff, has been disclosed before, but never in such dramatic, personal detail. Mr. Comey&#8217;s account offered a rare and titillating glimpse of a Washington power struggle, complete with a late-night showdown in the White House after a dramatic encounter in a darkened hospital room &#151; in short, elements of a potboiler paperback novel. Mr. Comey related his story to the committee, which is investigating various aspects of Mr. Gonzales&#8217;s tenure as Attorney General, including the recent dismissals of eight and allegations that applicants for traditionally nonpartisan career prosecutor jobs were screened for political loyalties. Although Mr. Comey declined to say specifically what the business was that sent Mr. Gonzales to the bedside of Mr. Ashcroft in George Washington Hospital, where he lay critically ill with pancreatitis, it was clear that the subject was the &#8217;s secret domestic surveillance program. The signature of Mr. Ashcroft or his surrogate was needed by the next day, March 11, in order to renew the program, which was still secret at that time. Since the existence of the program was disclosed by The New York Times in late 2005, it has been reported that it was the subject of a tense debate at the highest levels of the Bush administration, with some officials concerned that the program was not adequately supervised, and others having more fundamental worries. Around the time of the hospital incident, the White House suspended parts of the program for several months and imposed tougher requirements on the National Security Agency on how the program was to be used.Mr. Comey told the committee today that when Mr. Ashcroft was ill and he was in charge at the Justice Department, he told the White House he would not certify the program again &#8220;as to its legality.&#8221; On the night of March 10, as he was being driven home by his security detail, he got a telephone call from Mr. Ashcroft&#8217;s chief of staff, who had just been contacted by Mr. Ashcroft&#8217;s wife, Janet. Although Mrs. Ashcroft had banned visitors and telephone calls to her husband&#8217;s hospital room, she had just gotten a call from the White House telling her that Mr. Card and Mr. Gonzales were on their way to see her husband, Mr. Comey testified. &#8220;I have some recollection that the call was from the president himself, but I don&#8217;t know that for sure,&#8221; Mr. Comey said. He said his security detail then sped him to the hospital with sirens blaring and emergency lights flashing, while he telephoned the director of the , Robert S. Mueller 3d, from the car. Mr. Mueller shared his sense of urgency: &#8220;He said, &#8216;I&#8217;ll meet you at the hospital right now,&#8217; &#8221; Mr. Comey testified. When he got to the hospital, Mr. Comey recalled, &#8220;I got out of the car and ran up &#151; literally, ran up the stairs with my security detail.&#8221; &#8220;What was your concern?&#8221; asked Senator , Democrat of New York, who was the chairman of today&#8217;s committee session. &#8220;I was concerned that, given how ill I knew the attorney general was, that there might be an effort to ask him to overrule me when he was in no condition to do that,&#8221; Mr. Comey replied. Mr. Comey recalled arriving at the darkened hospital room, where Mr. Ashcroft seemed hardly aware of his surroundings. For a time, only Mr. Comey and the Ashcrofts were in the room. Meanwhile, Mr. Mueller, who had not yet arrived, told Mr. Comey&#8217;s security detail by phone &#8220;not to allow me to be removed from the room under any circumstances,&#8221; Mr. Comey testified. Minutes later, he said, Mr. Gonzales and Mr. Card entered the room, with Mr. Gonzales carrying an envelope. &#8220;And then Mr. Gonzales began to discuss why they were there, to seek his approval for a matter,&#8221; Mr. Comey related. &#8220;And Attorney General Ashcroft then stunned me,&#8221; Mr. Comey went on: He raised his head from the pillow, reiterated his objections to the program, then lay back down, pointing to Mr. Comey as the attorney general during his illness. When Mr. Mueller arrived, &#8220;he had a brief, a memorable brief exchange with the attorney general, and then we went outside in the hallway,&#8221; Mr. Comey said. Mr. Gonzales and Mr. Card departed, but after a while, Mr. Card telephoned Mr. Comey and &#8220;demanded that I come to the White House immediately,&#8221; Mr. Comey said. &#8220;After what I just witnessed, I will not meet with you without a witness, and I intend that witness to be the solicitor general of the United States,&#8221; Mr. Comey said he told Mr. Card. Whereupon, Mr. Comey said, he contacted the solicitor general, , who was at a dinner party, and arranged to go with him to the White House. At first, Mr. Card would not let Mr. Olson enter his office, Mr. Comey said; he then had a considerably calmer private chat with Mr. Card for a quarter-hour, after which Mr. Olson entered the room and took part in the conversation. &#8220;Mr. Card was concerned that he had heard reports that there were to be a large number of resignations at the Department of Justice,&#8221; Mr. Comey recalled. Mr. Ashcroft had such serious reservations about the program that he considered resigning then, Mr. Comey testified. Instead, he stayed on until November 2004. Mr. Mueller, too, considered resigning, Mr. Comey said. &#8220;You had conversations with him about it?&#8221; Mr. Schumer asked. &#8220;Yes,&#8221; Mr. Comey replied.The surveillance program was reauthorized on March 11, 2004, without a signature from the Department of Justice &#8220;attesting to its legality,&#8221; Mr. Comey testified. Mr. Comey said today that he intended to resign the next day, March 12. But terrorists carried out deadly train bombings in Madrid on March 11, prompting him to put his plans on hold; he remained on the job until August 2005. Even before Mr. Comey&#8217;s testimony, Mr. Schumer and Senator of Pennsylvania, the panel&#8217;s ranking Republican, reiterated their low opinion of Mr. Gonzales as attorney general. &#8220;He&#8217;s presided over a Justice Department where being a, quote, loyal Bushie seems to be more important than being a seasoned professional, where what the White House wants is more important than what the law requires or what prudence dictates,&#8221; Mr. Schumer said. &#8220;It is the decision of Mr. Gonzales as to whether he stays or goes, but it is hard to see how the Department of Justice can function and perform its important duties with Mr. Gonzales remaining where he is,&#8221; Mr Specter said. &#8220;And beyond Mr. Gonzales&#8217; decision, it&#8217;s a matter for the president as to whether the president will retain the attorney general or not.&#8221; More Articles in Washington &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. More Articles in Washington &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Gonzales Pressed Ailing Ashcroft on Spy Plan, Aide Says Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/washington/15cnd-attorneys.html?ex=1336881600&en=246b34c8906ddfc4&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Gonzales Pressed Ailing Ashcroft on Spy Plan, Aide Says - New York Times Gonzales Pressed Ailing Ashcroft on Spy Plan, Aide Says Stephen Crowley/The New York Times Former Deputy Attorney General James Comey testifying before the Senate Judiciary Committee hearing today. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 15, 2007 WASHINGTON, May 15 &#151; On the night of March 10, 2004, a high-ranking Justice Department official rushed to a Washington hospital to prevent two White House aides from taking advantage of the critically ill Attorney General, , the official testified today. One of those aides was , who was then White House counsel and eventually succeeded Mr. Ashcroft as Attorney General. &#8220;I was very upset,&#8221; said , who was deputy Attorney General at the time, in his testimony today before the Senate Judiciary Committee. &#8220;I was angry. I thought I had just witnessed an effort to take advantage of a very sick man, who did not have the powers of the attorney general because they had been transferred to me.&#8221; The hospital visit by Mr. Gonzales and Andrew H. Card Jr. , who was then White House chief of staff, has been disclosed before, but never in such dramatic, personal detail. Mr. Comey&#8217;s account offered a rare and titillating glimpse of a Washington power struggle, complete with a late-night showdown in the White House after a dramatic encounter in a darkened hospital room &#151; in short, elements of a potboiler paperback novel. Mr. Comey related his story to the committee, which is investigating various aspects of Mr. Gonzales&#8217;s tenure as Attorney General, including the recent dismissals of eight and allegations that applicants for traditionally nonpartisan career prosecutor jobs were screened for political loyalties. Although Mr. Comey declined to say specifically what the business was that sent Mr. Gonzales to the bedside of Mr. Ashcroft in George Washington Hospital, where he lay critically ill with pancreatitis, it was clear that the subject was the &#8217;s secret domestic surveillance program. The signature of Mr. Ashcroft or his surrogate was needed by the next day, March 11, in order to renew the program, which was still secret at that time. Since the existence of the program was disclosed by The New York Times in late 2005, it has been reported that it was the subject of a tense debate at the highest levels of the Bush administration, with some officials concerned that the program was not adequately supervised, and others having more fundamental worries. Around the time of the hospital incident, the White House suspended parts of the program for several months and imposed tougher requirements on the National Security Agency on how the program was to be used.Mr. Comey told the committee today that when Mr. Ashcroft was ill and he was in charge at the Justice Department, he told the White House he would not certify the program again &#8220;as to its legality.&#8221; On the night of March 10, as he was being driven home by his security detail, he got a telephone call from Mr. Ashcroft&#8217;s chief of staff, who had just been contacted by Mr. Ashcroft&#8217;s wife, Janet. Although Mrs. Ashcroft had banned visitors and telephone calls to her husband&#8217;s hospital room, she had just gotten a call from the White House telling her that Mr. Card and Mr. Gonzales were on their way to see her husband, Mr. Comey testified. &#8220;I have some recollection that the call was from the president himself, but I don&#8217;t know that for sure,&#8221; Mr. Comey said. He said his security detail then sped him to the hospital with sirens blaring and emergency lights flashing, while he telephoned the director of the , Robert S. Mueller 3d, from the car. Mr. Mueller shared his sense of urgency: &#8220;He said, &#8216;I&#8217;ll meet you at the hospital right now,&#8217; &#8221; Mr. Comey testified. When he got to the hospital, Mr. Comey recalled, &#8220;I got out of the car and ran up &#151; literally, ran up the stairs with my security detail.&#8221; &#8220;What was your concern?&#8221; asked Senator , Democrat of New York, who was the chairman of today&#8217;s committee session. &#8220;I was concerned that, given how ill I knew the attorney general was, that there might be an effort to ask him to overrule me when he was in no condition to do that,&#8221; Mr. Comey replied. Mr. Comey recalled arriving at the darkened hospital room, where Mr. Ashcroft seemed hardly aware of his surroundings. For a time, only Mr. Comey and the Ashcrofts were in the room. Meanwhile, Mr. Mueller, who had not yet arrived, told Mr. Comey&#8217;s security detail by phone &#8220;not to allow me to be removed from the room under any circumstances,&#8221; Mr. Comey testified. Minutes later, he said, Mr. Gonzales and Mr. Card entered the room, with Mr. Gonzales carrying an envelope. &#8220;And then Mr. Gonzales began to discuss why they were there, to seek his approval for a matter,&#8221; Mr. Comey related. &#8220;And Attorney General Ashcroft then stunned me,&#8221; Mr. Comey went on: He raised his head from the pillow, reiterated his objections to the program, then lay back down, pointing to Mr. Comey as the attorney general during his illness. When Mr. Mueller arrived, &#8220;he had a brief, a memorable brief exchange with the attorney general, and then we went outside in the hallway,&#8221; Mr. Comey said. Mr. Gonzales and Mr. Card departed, but after a while, Mr. Card telephoned Mr. Comey and &#8220;demanded that I come to the White House immediately,&#8221; Mr. Comey said. &#8220;After what I just witnessed, I will not meet with you without a witness, and I intend that witness to be the solicitor general of the United States,&#8221; Mr. Comey said he told Mr. Card. Whereupon, Mr. Comey said, he contacted the solicitor general, , who was at a dinner party, and arranged to go with him to the White House. At first, Mr. Card would not let Mr. Olson enter his office, Mr. Comey said; he then had a considerably calmer private chat with Mr. Card for a quarter-hour, after which Mr. Olson entered the room and took part in the conversation. &#8220;Mr. Card was concerned that he had heard reports that there were to be a large number of resignations at the Department of Justice,&#8221; Mr. Comey recalled. Mr. Ashcroft had such serious reservations about the program that he considered resigning then, Mr. Comey testified. Instead, he stayed on until November 2004. Mr. Mueller, too, considered resigning, Mr. Comey said. &#8220;You had conversations with him about it?&#8221; Mr. Schumer asked. &#8220;Yes,&#8221; Mr. Comey replied.The surveillance program was reauthorized on March 11, 2004, without a signature from the Department of Justice &#8220;attesting to its legality,&#8221; Mr. Comey testified. Mr. Comey said today that he intended to resign the next day, March 12. But terrorists carried out deadly train bombings in Madrid on March 11, prompting him to put his plans on hold; he remained on the job until August 2005. Even before Mr. Comey&#8217;s testimony, Mr. Schumer and Senator of Pennsylvania, the panel&#8217;s ranking Republican, reiterated their low opinion of Mr. Gonzales as attorney general. &#8220;He&#8217;s presided over a Justice Department where being a, quote, loyal Bushie seems to be more important than being a seasoned professional, where what the White House wants is more important than what the law requires or what prudence dictates,&#8221; Mr. Schumer said. &#8220;It is the decision of Mr. Gonzales as to whether he stays or goes, but it is hard to see how the Department of Justice can function and perform its important duties with Mr. Gonzales remaining where he is,&#8221; Mr Specter said. &#8220;And beyond Mr. Gonzales&#8217; decision, it&#8217;s a matter for the president as to whether the president will retain the attorney general or not.&#8221; More Articles in Washington &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. More Articles in Washington &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Gonzales Pressed Ailing Ashcroft on Spy Plan, Aide Says Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/world/middleeast/15cnd-gaza.html	At Least 7 Killed in Gaza Fighting - New York Times At Least 7 Killed in Gaza Fighting Mahmud Hams/Agence France-Presse — Getty Images A Palestinian child today in front of the bodies of slain Fatah security officers at the morgue in the Deir el-Balah hospital in the Gaza Strip. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 15, 2007 NAHAL OZ, Israel, May 15 &#151; Fighters from the military wing of , one of the two main Palestinian political factions, attacked security forces loyal to the rival Fatah faction at a location in Gaza near the border with Israel today, killing nine people, according to Fatah officials. Skip to next paragraph Mahmud Hams/Agence France-Presse — Getty Images Palestinians today carrying the body of a security force member into the morgue in the Deir el-Balah hospital in the Gaza Strip. The clashes extended an outbreak of factional violence to a third day, threatening the survival of the two-month-old &#8220;unity&#8221; government of the Palestinian Authority, the result of a power-sharing agreement between Hamas and Fatah. The attack by Hamas fighters on the Presidential Guard, which is loyal to the Palestinian president, of Fatah, seemed to be a direct challenge to his authority. Raising the stakes further, the Hamas military wing said that it had fired the Qassam rockets that hit the Israeli border town of Sderot this evening, wounding several civilians, one seriously. The Palestinian information minister, Mustafa Barghouti, warned that if the unity government collapses, the whole Palestinian Authority could go down with it. Israeli troops fired today at two armed Palestinians who were spotted close to the border fence opposite Nahal Oz, a kibbutz that abuts the Gaza Strip, killing one of the two, an army spokeswoman said. Local news reports identified the two as members of the Presidential Guard who were fleeing the Hamas attack at the Karni commercial border crossing, which is nearby. At least one other Palestinian was killed in factional violence in Gaza City today, bringing the death toll to about 20 since the clashes resumed on Sunday after three months of relative calm. Israeli tanks lined up on the Israeli side of the border this morning while fierce gun battles raged among the Palestinian forces on the other side, but the tanks had drawn back by early afternoon. In the evening, a barrage of Qassam rockets fired from Gaza struck Sderot, hitting a house and a school, army officials said. According to Israel Radio, Hamas said the rockets were meant to commemorate Nakba Day, when Palestinians mark the anniversary of what they call the &#8220;catastrophe&#8221; of the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948. During the day, the Prime Minister of Israel, , met with King Abdullah of Jordan in the port city of Aqaba. David Baker, an official in Mr. Olmert&#8217;s office, said the leaders had a &#8220;warm and productive meeting, in which they discussed ways of promoting the Israeli-Palestinian process.&#8221; Mr. Baker said the leaders also discussed ways of shoring up the position of Mr. Abbas and other relative moderates in the Palestinian Authority. But the intensity of today&#8217;s violence in Gaza raised serious doubts about the viability of the joint government, and about the future of the Palestinian Authority as a whole. One of the main purposes of the power-sharing agreement was to stop factional violence that was threatening to spiral into civil war. &#8220;If this government falls, it means the collapse of the Palestinian Authority, and with it, the end of all agreements,&#8221; said Mr. Barghouti, the government spokesman. Speaking by telephone from Ramallah, he said that President Abbas had told the Palestinian cabinet on Monday night, &#8220;This is my government, and if it falls, I will fall with it.&#8221; The attack on the Fatah-aligned forces guarding the Karni crossing was the most audacious show of force by Hamas since the violence restarted, and it ratcheted up the hostility level between the warring factions. A spokesman for Hamas&#8217;s police force, Islam Shahwan, said that today&#8217;s violence started with the killing of Ibrahim Maniah, 45, a member of the Hamas-linked Qassam Brigade militia, by members of the Fatah-linked Presidential Guard in the Gaza neighborhood of Sajaiya, near the Karni crossing. Mr. Shahwan called the killing an assasination; Fatah officials denied that, and said Mr. Maniah was killed during street clashes. Mr. Abbas&#8217;s Presidential Guard is responsible for security at the Karni crossing. A spokesman for the Presidential Guard, Wael Dahab, said that Hamas raided a security position there, firing guns and rocket-propelled grenades. Three jeeps from the pro-Fatah National Security Forces drove toward Karni to provide backup to the Presidential Guard, but one of the vehicles overturned on the road, Fatah spokesmen said. Tawfiq Abu Houssa, a Fatah security official, said that Qassam Brigade members then went up to the overturned jeep and killed the seven men inside, shooting them &#8220;in cold blood, at close range.&#8221; He said their weapons were stolen. A Hamas spokesman, Fawzi Barhoum, said that the &#8220;Fatah accusations came without any investigation.&#8221; Earlier, Hamas spokesmen said Israel was to blame for the deaths of the National Security Force members, saying they were killed by a tank shell fired from across the border that struck the jeep. But the Israeli army spokeswoman denied that any shells had been fired. The Palestinian information minister, Mr. Barghouti, a political independent, said that the day&#8217;s events were still under investigation, and that &#8220;both sides&#8221; were responsible for the violence. By the afternoon, Gaza was mostly quiet, though sporadic bursts of gunfire could be heard. Across the border in the Nahal Oz kibbutz, tractors worked to harvest a carrot crop until a Qassam rocket landed in an open field at about 3 p.m., the first rocket to be fired today, the Israeli army said. Inside Gaza the atmosphere remained tense. Most people stayed at home, stores were closed, and gunmen from Hamas or Fatah took up positions in taller buildings in Gaza City, while Egyptian officials worked in earnest to try to mediate and restore calm. &#8220;With every new confrontation, the ability of the leaders to control their people on the ground is reduced,&#8221; said Mr. Barghouti. &#8220;There are certain people who don&#8217;t want calm.&#8221; Taghreed El-Khodary contributed reporting from Gaza City. More Articles in International &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Jordan&#8217;s King Calls Off Visit to the West Bank Hamas-Fatah Gunfight Worsens Factional Strife in Gaza Clash at U.N.-Run Gaza School Kills One and Wounds 6 World Briefing | Middle East: Gaza: Demands For BBC Journalist Rejected More Articles in International &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/world/middleeast/15cnd-gaza.html	At Least 7 Killed in Gaza Fighting - New York Times At Least 7 Killed in Gaza Fighting Mahmud Hams/Agence France-Presse — Getty Images A Palestinian child today in front of the bodies of slain Fatah security officers at the morgue in the Deir el-Balah hospital in the Gaza Strip. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 15, 2007 NAHAL OZ, Israel, May 15 &#151; Fighters from the military wing of , one of the two main Palestinian political factions, attacked security forces loyal to the rival Fatah faction at a location in Gaza near the border with Israel today, killing nine people, according to Fatah officials. Skip to next paragraph Mahmud Hams/Agence France-Presse — Getty Images Palestinians today carrying the body of a security force member into the morgue in the Deir el-Balah hospital in the Gaza Strip. The clashes extended an outbreak of factional violence to a third day, threatening the survival of the two-month-old &#8220;unity&#8221; government of the Palestinian Authority, the result of a power-sharing agreement between Hamas and Fatah. The attack by Hamas fighters on the Presidential Guard, which is loyal to the Palestinian president, of Fatah, seemed to be a direct challenge to his authority. Raising the stakes further, the Hamas military wing said that it had fired the Qassam rockets that hit the Israeli border town of Sderot this evening, wounding several civilians, one seriously. The Palestinian information minister, Mustafa Barghouti, warned that if the unity government collapses, the whole Palestinian Authority could go down with it. Israeli troops fired today at two armed Palestinians who were spotted close to the border fence opposite Nahal Oz, a kibbutz that abuts the Gaza Strip, killing one of the two, an army spokeswoman said. Local news reports identified the two as members of the Presidential Guard who were fleeing the Hamas attack at the Karni commercial border crossing, which is nearby. At least one other Palestinian was killed in factional violence in Gaza City today, bringing the death toll to about 20 since the clashes resumed on Sunday after three months of relative calm. Israeli tanks lined up on the Israeli side of the border this morning while fierce gun battles raged among the Palestinian forces on the other side, but the tanks had drawn back by early afternoon. In the evening, a barrage of Qassam rockets fired from Gaza struck Sderot, hitting a house and a school, army officials said. According to Israel Radio, Hamas said the rockets were meant to commemorate Nakba Day, when Palestinians mark the anniversary of what they call the &#8220;catastrophe&#8221; of the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948. During the day, the Prime Minister of Israel, , met with King Abdullah of Jordan in the port city of Aqaba. David Baker, an official in Mr. Olmert&#8217;s office, said the leaders had a &#8220;warm and productive meeting, in which they discussed ways of promoting the Israeli-Palestinian process.&#8221; Mr. Baker said the leaders also discussed ways of shoring up the position of Mr. Abbas and other relative moderates in the Palestinian Authority. But the intensity of today&#8217;s violence in Gaza raised serious doubts about the viability of the joint government, and about the future of the Palestinian Authority as a whole. One of the main purposes of the power-sharing agreement was to stop factional violence that was threatening to spiral into civil war. &#8220;If this government falls, it means the collapse of the Palestinian Authority, and with it, the end of all agreements,&#8221; said Mr. Barghouti, the government spokesman. Speaking by telephone from Ramallah, he said that President Abbas had told the Palestinian cabinet on Monday night, &#8220;This is my government, and if it falls, I will fall with it.&#8221; The attack on the Fatah-aligned forces guarding the Karni crossing was the most audacious show of force by Hamas since the violence restarted, and it ratcheted up the hostility level between the warring factions. A spokesman for Hamas&#8217;s police force, Islam Shahwan, said that today&#8217;s violence started with the killing of Ibrahim Maniah, 45, a member of the Hamas-linked Qassam Brigade militia, by members of the Fatah-linked Presidential Guard in the Gaza neighborhood of Sajaiya, near the Karni crossing. Mr. Shahwan called the killing an assasination; Fatah officials denied that, and said Mr. Maniah was killed during street clashes. Mr. Abbas&#8217;s Presidential Guard is responsible for security at the Karni crossing. A spokesman for the Presidential Guard, Wael Dahab, said that Hamas raided a security position there, firing guns and rocket-propelled grenades. Three jeeps from the pro-Fatah National Security Forces drove toward Karni to provide backup to the Presidential Guard, but one of the vehicles overturned on the road, Fatah spokesmen said. Tawfiq Abu Houssa, a Fatah security official, said that Qassam Brigade members then went up to the overturned jeep and killed the seven men inside, shooting them &#8220;in cold blood, at close range.&#8221; He said their weapons were stolen. A Hamas spokesman, Fawzi Barhoum, said that the &#8220;Fatah accusations came without any investigation.&#8221; Earlier, Hamas spokesmen said Israel was to blame for the deaths of the National Security Force members, saying they were killed by a tank shell fired from across the border that struck the jeep. But the Israeli army spokeswoman denied that any shells had been fired. The Palestinian information minister, Mr. Barghouti, a political independent, said that the day&#8217;s events were still under investigation, and that &#8220;both sides&#8221; were responsible for the violence. By the afternoon, Gaza was mostly quiet, though sporadic bursts of gunfire could be heard. Across the border in the Nahal Oz kibbutz, tractors worked to harvest a carrot crop until a Qassam rocket landed in an open field at about 3 p.m., the first rocket to be fired today, the Israeli army said. Inside Gaza the atmosphere remained tense. Most people stayed at home, stores were closed, and gunmen from Hamas or Fatah took up positions in taller buildings in Gaza City, while Egyptian officials worked in earnest to try to mediate and restore calm. &#8220;With every new confrontation, the ability of the leaders to control their people on the ground is reduced,&#8221; said Mr. Barghouti. &#8220;There are certain people who don&#8217;t want calm.&#8221; Taghreed El-Khodary contributed reporting from Gaza City. More Articles in International &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Jordan&#8217;s King Calls Off Visit to the West Bank Hamas-Fatah Gunfight Worsens Factional Strife in Gaza Clash at U.N.-Run Gaza School Kills One and Wounds 6 World Briefing | Middle East: Gaza: Demands For BBC Journalist Rejected More Articles in International &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/obituaries/15cnd-falwell.html?ex=1336881600&en=475295bc07f015f1&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Jerry Falwell, Leading Religious Conservative, Dies at 73 - New York Times Jerry Falwell, Leading Religious Conservative, Dies at 73 Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 15, 2007 , the fundamentalist preacher who founded the Moral Majority and helped bring the language and passions of religious conservatives into American politics, died today shortly after he was found unconscious in his office at Liberty University in Lynchburg, Va. He was 73 years old. Skip to next paragraph The Rev. Jerry Falwell spoke at the SBC Pastors' Conference on June 20, 2005 in Nashville, Tenn. Mr. Falwell had a history of heart problems, and probably died of cardiac arrythmia, his physician, Dr. Carl Moore, said today. Mr. Falwell had no pulse when he was found, the doctor said, and efforts to revive him at the university and on the way to the hospital were unsuccessful. Dr. Moore said Mr. Falwell was pronounced dead at 12:40 p.m. Eastern time. The university’s executive vice president, Ronald Godwin, told a news conference this afternoon that he had had breakfast with Mr. Falwell at 8:30 a.m., and said the university mourns his loss. “Dr. Falwell is a huge, huge leader here in this area and in the nation at large," Dr. Godwin said. Mr. Falwell went from being a Baptist preacher in Lynchburg to carving out a powerful role in national electoral politics. He was at home in both the millennial world of fundamentalist Christianity and the earthly blood sport of the political arena. As much as anyone, he helped create the religious right as a political force, defined the issues that would energize it for decades and cemented its ties to the He came to prominence first as a televangelist, through his “Old-Time Gospel Hour” programs, and then as the leader of the Moral Majority, an organization whose very name drew a vivid, divisive battle line in the sand of American politics. After the organization disbanded in 1989, he remained a familiar and powerful figure, supporting when he ran for president, as he did his father George H. W. Bush before him, mobilizing conservatives and finding his way into a thicket of controversies. Mr. Falwell grew up in a household that he described as a battleground between the forces of God and the powers of Satan. In his public life he often had to walk a fine line between the certitudes of fundamentalist religion, in which the word of God was absolute and inviolate, and the ambiguities of mainstream politics, in which a message warmly received at his Thomas Road Baptist Church might not play as well on the NBC Nightly News. As a result, he was a lightning rod for controversy and caricature. He apologized, for example, after televised remarks suggesting that the 9/11 terrorist attacks reflected God’s judgment on a nation spiritually weakened by the American Civil Liberties Union and supporters of gay rights, and after he called Muhammad a terrorist. He was ridiculed for an article in his National Liberty Journal that suggested that Tinky Winky, a character in the “Teletubbies” children’s show, could be a hidden homosexual signal, because the character was purple, had a triangle on its head and carried a handbag. But behind the controversies was a shrewd, savvy operator with an original vision for affecting political and moral change. He rallied religious conservatives to the political arena at a time when most fundamentalists and other conservative religious leaders were inclined to stay away, and helped pulled off what once seemed the impossible task of uniting religious conservatives from many faiths and doctrines over what they had in common, rather than focusing on the differences that kept them apart. He had numerous failures as well as successes, and always remained a divisive figure, demonized on the left in much the way that Senator or Jane Fonda were on the right. But political experts agree he was an enormously influential figure. “Behind the idea of the Moral Majority was this notion that there could be a coalition of these different religious groups that all agree on abortion and homosexuality and other issues even if they never agreed on how to read the Bible or the nature of God,” said John Green, director of the Ray C. Bliss Institute of Applied Politics at the University of Akron, who studies the religious conservative movement. “That was a real innovation,” Mr. Green said. “And even if that’s an idea that did not completely originate with Falwell, it’s certainly an idea he developed and championed independently of others. It was a very important insight, and it’s had a huge influence on American politics.” Jerry Lamon Falwell was born Aug. 11, 1933, in Lynchburg, Va. His ancestors there dated back to 1669, and his more immediate ones lived as if they were characters in the pageant of sin and redemption that formed his world view. His paternal grandfather, Charles William Falwell, embittered by the death of his wife and a favorite nephew, was a vocal and decisive atheist who would not go to church, and who ridiculed those who did. His father, Carey H. Falwell, was a flamboyant entrepreneur who opened his first grocery store when he was 22. Soon he was operating 17 service stations, many with little restaurants and stores attached. He built oil storage tanks, owned an oil company, and in 1927 founded American Bus Lines, which installed old battery-operated movie projectors to show Charlie Chaplin and Laurel and Hardy movies to riders. More Articles in Obituaries &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. More Articles in Obituaries &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Gonzales Pressed Ailing Ashcroft on Spy Plan, Aide Says Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/obituaries/15cnd-falwell.html?ex=1336881600&en=475295bc07f015f1&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Jerry Falwell, Leading Religious Conservative, Dies at 73 - New York Times Jerry Falwell, Leading Religious Conservative, Dies at 73 Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 15, 2007 , the fundamentalist preacher who founded the Moral Majority and helped bring the language and passions of religious conservatives into American politics, died today shortly after he was found unconscious in his office at Liberty University in Lynchburg, Va. He was 73 years old. Skip to next paragraph The Rev. Jerry Falwell spoke at the SBC Pastors' Conference on June 20, 2005 in Nashville, Tenn. Mr. Falwell had a history of heart problems, and probably died of cardiac arrythmia, his physician, Dr. Carl Moore, said today. Mr. Falwell had no pulse when he was found, the doctor said, and efforts to revive him at the university and on the way to the hospital were unsuccessful. Dr. Moore said Mr. Falwell was pronounced dead at 12:40 p.m. Eastern time. The university’s executive vice president, Ronald Godwin, told a news conference this afternoon that he had had breakfast with Mr. Falwell at 8:30 a.m., and said the university mourns his loss. “Dr. Falwell is a huge, huge leader here in this area and in the nation at large," Dr. Godwin said. Mr. Falwell went from being a Baptist preacher in Lynchburg to carving out a powerful role in national electoral politics. He was at home in both the millennial world of fundamentalist Christianity and the earthly blood sport of the political arena. As much as anyone, he helped create the religious right as a political force, defined the issues that would energize it for decades and cemented its ties to the He came to prominence first as a televangelist, through his “Old-Time Gospel Hour” programs, and then as the leader of the Moral Majority, an organization whose very name drew a vivid, divisive battle line in the sand of American politics. After the organization disbanded in 1989, he remained a familiar and powerful figure, supporting when he ran for president, as he did his father George H. W. Bush before him, mobilizing conservatives and finding his way into a thicket of controversies. Mr. Falwell grew up in a household that he described as a battleground between the forces of God and the powers of Satan. In his public life he often had to walk a fine line between the certitudes of fundamentalist religion, in which the word of God was absolute and inviolate, and the ambiguities of mainstream politics, in which a message warmly received at his Thomas Road Baptist Church might not play as well on the NBC Nightly News. As a result, he was a lightning rod for controversy and caricature. He apologized, for example, after televised remarks suggesting that the 9/11 terrorist attacks reflected God’s judgment on a nation spiritually weakened by the American Civil Liberties Union and supporters of gay rights, and after he called Muhammad a terrorist. He was ridiculed for an article in his National Liberty Journal that suggested that Tinky Winky, a character in the “Teletubbies” children’s show, could be a hidden homosexual signal, because the character was purple, had a triangle on its head and carried a handbag. But behind the controversies was a shrewd, savvy operator with an original vision for affecting political and moral change. He rallied religious conservatives to the political arena at a time when most fundamentalists and other conservative religious leaders were inclined to stay away, and helped pulled off what once seemed the impossible task of uniting religious conservatives from many faiths and doctrines over what they had in common, rather than focusing on the differences that kept them apart. He had numerous failures as well as successes, and always remained a divisive figure, demonized on the left in much the way that Senator or Jane Fonda were on the right. But political experts agree he was an enormously influential figure. “Behind the idea of the Moral Majority was this notion that there could be a coalition of these different religious groups that all agree on abortion and homosexuality and other issues even if they never agreed on how to read the Bible or the nature of God,” said John Green, director of the Ray C. Bliss Institute of Applied Politics at the University of Akron, who studies the religious conservative movement. “That was a real innovation,” Mr. Green said. “And even if that’s an idea that did not completely originate with Falwell, it’s certainly an idea he developed and championed independently of others. It was a very important insight, and it’s had a huge influence on American politics.” Jerry Lamon Falwell was born Aug. 11, 1933, in Lynchburg, Va. His ancestors there dated back to 1669, and his more immediate ones lived as if they were characters in the pageant of sin and redemption that formed his world view. His paternal grandfather, Charles William Falwell, embittered by the death of his wife and a favorite nephew, was a vocal and decisive atheist who would not go to church, and who ridiculed those who did. His father, Carey H. Falwell, was a flamboyant entrepreneur who opened his first grocery store when he was 22. Soon he was operating 17 service stations, many with little restaurants and stores attached. He built oil storage tanks, owned an oil company, and in 1927 founded American Bus Lines, which installed old battery-operated movie projectors to show Charlie Chaplin and Laurel and Hardy movies to riders. More Articles in Obituaries &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. More Articles in Obituaries &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Gonzales Pressed Ailing Ashcroft on Spy Plan, Aide Says Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/index.html	The New York Times - Breaking News, World News & Multimedia Tuesday, May 15, 2007 NYT Archive Since 1981 Gonzales Pressed Ailing Ashcroft on Spy Plan, Aide Says James B. Comey’s account before the Senate Judiciary Committee offered a rare and titillating glimpse of a Washington power struggle. More From The Lede Tyco Paying $3 Billion to Settle Shareholder Suits The settlement, described as the largest payment in such a suit, seeks to put to rest a case that became synonymous with corporate excess. ‘Spring Awakening’ Gets 11 Tony Nominations In a season rich with contenders, “Spring Awakening,” a dark rock musical, led the field of Tony nominations. Times Topics: Tony Awards Rev. Jerry Falwell Is Dead at 73 Jerry Falwell, the fundamentalist preacher who founded the Moral Majority, died today shortly after he was found unconscious in his office at Liberty University. In Study, College-Prep Classes Left Many Unready Only 26 percent of high school students who take the core courses are well prepared for college, the study says. Inflation Is Tame Despite Rising Gas Prices By JEREMY W. PETERS Consumer prices rose 0.4 percent in April, while the core rate, which excludes food and gas, rose only 0.2 percent. Suicide Bombing Kills at Least 22 in Pakistan At Least 7 Killed in Gaza Fighting Thomson and Reuters Agree on Merger The Lede: Shock Jocks Suspended The Caucus: Clues to Tonight’s Debate The Lede: Unseating the Border Patrol Chief The Empire Zone: Giuliani Aide Lashes Back DealBook: ‘Private Equity Can Go Anyplace’ Talk to the Newsroom » The Times’s Matthew Purdy answers reader questions. Is Amputee Sprinter Too-Abled? Should athletes with prosthetics compete with able-bodied athletes? Stocks Close Mixed on Housing Report Man Eligible for Death in Ill. Slayings Pentagon General to Be 'War Czar' Clinton, Obama Support War Fund Cutoff “Canyon Passage” is a great western that resembles no other. The New York City police commissioner Raymond W. Kelly turns critic when viewing "The Naked City." No One Says ‘9/11.’ Allusions to the attacks are becoming fair game for movies and TV. Herbert: Paid Sick Days What Gets Left Behind When they move, New Yorkers “forget” to pack all sorts of things, from television sets and air-conditioners to drugs and handcuffs. More in Real Estate Mortgage News and Rates Best Value 2 bdrm w/ southern lightLovely ... See All Featured Properties Place a Classified Ad » In the Desert, an Oasis for Drag Racing Gearheads gather near Dubai to test their mettle at a complex for quarter-mile drag racing. Submit photos and comment on other readers' cars. Also, keep track of events Go to Photo Gallery Place a Classified Ad » Post a job online More in Job Market Browse jobs by industry Browse jobs by location Consultants and résumé writers might improve the odds of landing a high-paying job. Place a Classified Ad » Find a Classifieds listing Home & Garden Directory Small Inns & Lodges Post a classifieds ad online "New Yorks Premier Cleaning Service specializes in cleaning services for houses, apts. and ..."...... Place a Classified Ad » SAVE 50% ON HOME DELIVERY Have The New York Times waiting for you, for as little as $3.15 a week. N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker Be Prepared. Fight ID Theft. Equifax Credit Watch™. Equifax.com Photos, fine art, books and more. Arabian capital of culture and strategic hub forges ahead Earn 5.05% APY - Open a Complete Savings Acct from E*TRADE Bank Inspectors Cite Big Gain by Iran on Nuclear Fuel Turkish City Counters Fear of Islam’s Reach Bank’s Report Says Wolfowitz Violated Ethics Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Bush Calls for Work for Higher Fuel Efficiency U. of Texas Fires Officer Over Tie to Loan Company Gonzales’s Deputy Quits Justice Department Bush Calls for Work for Higher Fuel Efficiency Bank’s Report Says Wolfowitz Violated Ethics N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; The Freshman: Barely in Office, but G.O.P. Rivals Are Circling Lawyers Argue Legal Status of Gay Unions After Ordnance Scare, Beachgoers Told to Dig With Care A Giant Takes On Physics’ Biggest Questions Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Scientists Back Off Theory of a Colder Europe in a Warming World Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession The Consumer: As Demand for Donor Eggs Soars, High Prices Stir Ethical Concerns Oklahoma Chides Insurer in Medicare Marketing Case U. of Texas Fires Officer Over Tie to Loan Company Prestigious Private Schools Settle Rights Suit by a Non-Hawaiian 2 Suspended for School Prank That Scared Pupils in Tennessee What Gets Left Behind Streetscapes | Readers’ Questions: How the West Side Was Won National Perspectives: Reviving a No Man’s Land Along the Tennessee River News Analysis: In Deal, a Test for the U.A.W. Cerberus Goes Where No Firm Has Gone Before A Corporate Divorce on the Cheap New Motorola Phones Aim at High-End Market States Fault MySpace on Predator Issues On the Web, an Advanced Carbon Calculator for Personal Use Posada Is One Yankee That Can’t Be Replaced Oracle Rebounds in Challenger Series An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Family Travel | Shanghai for Kids: Amid Wheeler-Dealers, an Urban Playground Family Travel | In the Footsteps of Linnaeus: A Vast Garden of Knowledge, Still Blooming Today The Cape Town Area’s Endless Possibilities Dining & Wine &#x00bb; Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country Vital Signs: Nutrition: A Cardiovascular Argument for Eating Whole Grains The Way We Live Now: Ocean Blues Home & Garden &#x00bb; Aspiring to the Throne At Home With Charlie White: Order and Chaos in a Single Heartbeat In the Garden: It Takes a Hammer to Grow This Salad Fashion & Style &#x00bb; Clearly, Frankly, Unabashedly Disabled Girth and Nudity, a Pictorial Mission Modern Love: My First Lesson in Motherhood A Corporate Divorce on the Cheap News Analysis: In Deal, a Test for the U.A.W. A Chief With Union Roots Enters a Proving Ground Editorial: In Divided New Orleans Op-Ed Contributor: Friend or Faux? How to Define Progress in Iraq (6 Letters) ‘Spring Awakening’ Gets 11 Tony Nominations For ABC, Dramas Fill Out the Lineup Theater Review | 'Passing Strange': Look Back in Chagrin: A Rocker’s Progress Critic’s Choice: New DVDs Film: Moyduh, He Watched: Commissioner Turns Critic Film: No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. ‘Spring Awakening’ Gets 11 Tony Nominations Broadway’s Year of Tepid Hits Theater Review | 'Passing Strange': Look Back in Chagrin: A Rocker’s Progress 'The Pesthouse,' by Jim Crace: The Pesthouse 'Bad Luck and Trouble,' by Lee Child: He’s Taut of Style and Light of Foot Who Killed Kennedy? One Man’s Answer Week in Review &#x00bb; Speed Bump: When the Wheels Come Off a Sport The Nation: Genetic Testing + Abortion = ??? The World: See You in September, Whatever That Means The Flight From Iraq Writing in the Dark Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Gonzales Pressed Ailing Ashcroft on Spy Plan, Aide Says Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France About the NYT Co. Jobs at the NYT Co. Add New York Times headlines to your site Add New York Times RSS Feeds Get home delivery of The New York Times, as little as $3.15 a week. The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/index.html	The New York Times - Breaking News, World News & Multimedia Tuesday, May 15, 2007 NYT Archive Since 1981 Gonzales Pressed Ailing Ashcroft on Spy Plan, Aide Says James B. Comey’s account before the Senate Judiciary Committee offered a rare and titillating glimpse of a Washington power struggle. More From The Lede Tyco Paying $3 Billion to Settle Shareholder Suits The settlement, described as the largest payment in such a suit, seeks to put to rest a case that became synonymous with corporate excess. ‘Spring Awakening’ Gets 11 Tony Nominations In a season rich with contenders, “Spring Awakening,” a dark rock musical, led the field of Tony nominations. Times Topics: Tony Awards Rev. Jerry Falwell Is Dead at 73 Jerry Falwell, the fundamentalist preacher who founded the Moral Majority, died today shortly after he was found unconscious in his office at Liberty University. In Study, College-Prep Classes Left Many Unready Only 26 percent of high school students who take the core courses are well prepared for college, the study says. Inflation Is Tame Despite Rising Gas Prices By JEREMY W. PETERS Consumer prices rose 0.4 percent in April, while the core rate, which excludes food and gas, rose only 0.2 percent. Suicide Bombing Kills at Least 22 in Pakistan At Least 7 Killed in Gaza Fighting Thomson and Reuters Agree on Merger The Lede: Shock Jocks Suspended The Caucus: Clues to Tonight’s Debate The Lede: Unseating the Border Patrol Chief The Empire Zone: Giuliani Aide Lashes Back DealBook: ‘Private Equity Can Go Anyplace’ Talk to the Newsroom » The Times’s Matthew Purdy answers reader questions. Is Amputee Sprinter Too-Abled? Should athletes with prosthetics compete with able-bodied athletes? Stocks Close Mixed on Housing Report Man Eligible for Death in Ill. Slayings Pentagon General to Be 'War Czar' Clinton, Obama Support War Fund Cutoff “Canyon Passage” is a great western that resembles no other. The New York City police commissioner Raymond W. Kelly turns critic when viewing "The Naked City." No One Says ‘9/11.’ Allusions to the attacks are becoming fair game for movies and TV. Herbert: Paid Sick Days What Gets Left Behind When they move, New Yorkers “forget” to pack all sorts of things, from television sets and air-conditioners to drugs and handcuffs. More in Real Estate Mortgage News and Rates Best Value 2 bdrm w/ southern lightLovely ... See All Featured Properties Place a Classified Ad » In the Desert, an Oasis for Drag Racing Gearheads gather near Dubai to test their mettle at a complex for quarter-mile drag racing. Submit photos and comment on other readers' cars. Also, keep track of events Go to Photo Gallery Place a Classified Ad » Post a job online More in Job Market Browse jobs by industry Browse jobs by location Consultants and résumé writers might improve the odds of landing a high-paying job. Place a Classified Ad » Find a Classifieds listing Home & Garden Directory Small Inns & Lodges Post a classifieds ad online "New Yorks Premier Cleaning Service specializes in cleaning services for houses, apts. and ..."...... Place a Classified Ad » SAVE 50% ON HOME DELIVERY Have The New York Times waiting for you, for as little as $3.15 a week. N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker Be Prepared. Fight ID Theft. Equifax Credit Watch™. Equifax.com Photos, fine art, books and more. Arabian capital of culture and strategic hub forges ahead Earn 5.05% APY - Open a Complete Savings Acct from E*TRADE Bank Inspectors Cite Big Gain by Iran on Nuclear Fuel Turkish City Counters Fear of Islam’s Reach Bank’s Report Says Wolfowitz Violated Ethics Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Bush Calls for Work for Higher Fuel Efficiency U. of Texas Fires Officer Over Tie to Loan Company Gonzales’s Deputy Quits Justice Department Bush Calls for Work for Higher Fuel Efficiency Bank’s Report Says Wolfowitz Violated Ethics N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; The Freshman: Barely in Office, but G.O.P. Rivals Are Circling Lawyers Argue Legal Status of Gay Unions After Ordnance Scare, Beachgoers Told to Dig With Care A Giant Takes On Physics’ Biggest Questions Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Scientists Back Off Theory of a Colder Europe in a Warming World Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession The Consumer: As Demand for Donor Eggs Soars, High Prices Stir Ethical Concerns Oklahoma Chides Insurer in Medicare Marketing Case U. of Texas Fires Officer Over Tie to Loan Company Prestigious Private Schools Settle Rights Suit by a Non-Hawaiian 2 Suspended for School Prank That Scared Pupils in Tennessee What Gets Left Behind Streetscapes | Readers’ Questions: How the West Side Was Won National Perspectives: Reviving a No Man’s Land Along the Tennessee River News Analysis: In Deal, a Test for the U.A.W. Cerberus Goes Where No Firm Has Gone Before A Corporate Divorce on the Cheap New Motorola Phones Aim at High-End Market States Fault MySpace on Predator Issues On the Web, an Advanced Carbon Calculator for Personal Use Posada Is One Yankee That Can’t Be Replaced Oracle Rebounds in Challenger Series An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Family Travel | Shanghai for Kids: Amid Wheeler-Dealers, an Urban Playground Family Travel | In the Footsteps of Linnaeus: A Vast Garden of Knowledge, Still Blooming Today The Cape Town Area’s Endless Possibilities Dining & Wine &#x00bb; Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country Vital Signs: Nutrition: A Cardiovascular Argument for Eating Whole Grains The Way We Live Now: Ocean Blues Home & Garden &#x00bb; Aspiring to the Throne At Home With Charlie White: Order and Chaos in a Single Heartbeat In the Garden: It Takes a Hammer to Grow This Salad Fashion & Style &#x00bb; Clearly, Frankly, Unabashedly Disabled Girth and Nudity, a Pictorial Mission Modern Love: My First Lesson in Motherhood A Corporate Divorce on the Cheap News Analysis: In Deal, a Test for the U.A.W. A Chief With Union Roots Enters a Proving Ground Editorial: In Divided New Orleans Op-Ed Contributor: Friend or Faux? How to Define Progress in Iraq (6 Letters) ‘Spring Awakening’ Gets 11 Tony Nominations For ABC, Dramas Fill Out the Lineup Theater Review | 'Passing Strange': Look Back in Chagrin: A Rocker’s Progress Critic’s Choice: New DVDs Film: Moyduh, He Watched: Commissioner Turns Critic Film: No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. ‘Spring Awakening’ Gets 11 Tony Nominations Broadway’s Year of Tepid Hits Theater Review | 'Passing Strange': Look Back in Chagrin: A Rocker’s Progress 'The Pesthouse,' by Jim Crace: The Pesthouse 'Bad Luck and Trouble,' by Lee Child: He’s Taut of Style and Light of Foot Who Killed Kennedy? One Man’s Answer Week in Review &#x00bb; Speed Bump: When the Wheels Come Off a Sport The Nation: Genetic Testing + Abortion = ??? The World: See You in September, Whatever That Means The Flight From Iraq Writing in the Dark Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Gonzales Pressed Ailing Ashcroft on Spy Plan, Aide Says Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France About the NYT Co. Jobs at the NYT Co. Add New York Times headlines to your site Add New York Times RSS Feeds Get home delivery of The New York Times, as little as $3.15 a week. The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/education/15cnd-report.html?ex=1336881600&en=ded85eacc0ef9515&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	In Study, College-Prep Classes Left Many Unready - New York Times In Study, College-Prep Classes Left Many Unready Published: May 15, 2007 Only one-quarter of high school students who take a full set of college-preparatory courses — four years of English and three each of mathematics, science and social studies — are well prepared for college, according to a new study of last year’s high school graduates released today by ACT, the Iowa testing organization. Skip to next paragraph Rigor at Risk: Reaffirming Quality in the High School Core Curriculum Executive Summary of Report The report analyzed approximately 1.2 million students who took the ACT college admissions test and graduated from high school last June. The study predicted whether the students had a good chance of scoring C or better in introductory college courses, based on their test scores and the success rates of past test takers. The study concluded that only 26 percent were ready for college-level work in all four core areas, while 19 percent were not adequately prepared in any of them. “It has become increasingly apparent that, while taking the right number of courses is certainly better than not, it is no longer enough,” the report said. Cynthia B. Schmeiser, president and chief operating officer of ACT’s education division, said she was stunned by the low level of accomplishment for students who had taken the core curriculum, which was recommended 24 years ago in “A Nation at Risk,” a United States Department of Education commission report that prompted widespread efforts to improve American education. “What’s shocking about this, is that since ‘A Nation at Risk,’ we have been encouraging students to take this core curriculum with the unspoken promise that when they do, they will be college-ready,” she said. “What we have found, now, is that when they do, only one in four is ready for college-level work.” ACT reported that 54 percent of last year’s graduates who took the ACT exam said they had taken at least a core curriculum. Those who had not taken this minimum curriculum fared even worse: only 14 percent were judged ready for college work in all four subject areas, while 36 percent were not prepared in any. The report released today, entitled “Rigor at Risk: Reaffirming Quality in the High School Core Curriculum,” is a sign of growing attention to secondary education, after decades of emphasis on elementary and middle schools, and to what students are really learning in high school. In 1999, Clifford Adelman, then a researcher at the federal Department of Education, found that the strength of high school work was the most important factor in determining college success, even more than the socioeconomic status of a student’s family. The new report, which cites Mr. Adelman’s research, makes the case that many high school courses are not providing the necessary quality that he described. “Course titles don’t matter nearly as much as what is taught and how it is taught,” said Michael Cohen, president of Achieve, a Washington-based organization that works with states on academic standards. “There is tremendous variation in what is taught in a course called biology or algebra 2.” Kati Haycock, director of the Education Trust, another Washington-based group that advocates standard-setting, said that as she traveled around the country, she found many schools not offering challenging work. “When you look at the assignments these kids get, it is just appalling,” she said. “A course may be labeled college-preparatory English. But if the kids get more than three-paragraph-long assignments, it is unusual. Or they’ll be asked to color a poster. We say ‘How about doing analysis?’ and they look at us like we are demented.” Other researchers have also found problems with the rigor of high school education. A study released last year by the National Center for Educational Accountability in Austin, Tex., for example, found that the majority of low-income students who received credit for a college-preparatory curriculum in Texas needed remedial help when they got to college Chrys Dougherty, the center’s research director, said the ACT report showed that the problem found in Texas was widespread, and that “many high school students are not learning the content implied by the titles of the courses in which they are enrolled.” ACT officials and other education analysts said that while educators must continue to improve what students learn in elementary and middle schools, so they will be ready to tackle more rigorous high school work, states must also begin to specify course standards and increase the capability of teachers in high school. The ACT report also found that students who took more courses than the minimum core curriculum performed better on their exams, and had a greater chance of doing well in college. But even then, college readiness was not assured. The report said that more advanced coursework was necessary to be well prepared after graduation, and that a rigorous set of core courses should achieve that. Next Article in Education (1 of 5) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Next Article in Education (1 of 5) &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Gonzales Pressed Ailing Ashcroft on Spy Plan, Aide Says Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/education/15cnd-report.html?ex=1336881600&en=ded85eacc0ef9515&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	In Study, College-Prep Classes Left Many Unready - New York Times In Study, College-Prep Classes Left Many Unready Published: May 15, 2007 Only one-quarter of high school students who take a full set of college-preparatory courses — four years of English and three each of mathematics, science and social studies — are well prepared for college, according to a new study of last year’s high school graduates released today by ACT, the Iowa testing organization. Skip to next paragraph Rigor at Risk: Reaffirming Quality in the High School Core Curriculum Executive Summary of Report The report analyzed approximately 1.2 million students who took the ACT college admissions test and graduated from high school last June. The study predicted whether the students had a good chance of scoring C or better in introductory college courses, based on their test scores and the success rates of past test takers. The study concluded that only 26 percent were ready for college-level work in all four core areas, while 19 percent were not adequately prepared in any of them. “It has become increasingly apparent that, while taking the right number of courses is certainly better than not, it is no longer enough,” the report said. Cynthia B. Schmeiser, president and chief operating officer of ACT’s education division, said she was stunned by the low level of accomplishment for students who had taken the core curriculum, which was recommended 24 years ago in “A Nation at Risk,” a United States Department of Education commission report that prompted widespread efforts to improve American education. “What’s shocking about this, is that since ‘A Nation at Risk,’ we have been encouraging students to take this core curriculum with the unspoken promise that when they do, they will be college-ready,” she said. “What we have found, now, is that when they do, only one in four is ready for college-level work.” ACT reported that 54 percent of last year’s graduates who took the ACT exam said they had taken at least a core curriculum. Those who had not taken this minimum curriculum fared even worse: only 14 percent were judged ready for college work in all four subject areas, while 36 percent were not prepared in any. The report released today, entitled “Rigor at Risk: Reaffirming Quality in the High School Core Curriculum,” is a sign of growing attention to secondary education, after decades of emphasis on elementary and middle schools, and to what students are really learning in high school. In 1999, Clifford Adelman, then a researcher at the federal Department of Education, found that the strength of high school work was the most important factor in determining college success, even more than the socioeconomic status of a student’s family. The new report, which cites Mr. Adelman’s research, makes the case that many high school courses are not providing the necessary quality that he described. “Course titles don’t matter nearly as much as what is taught and how it is taught,” said Michael Cohen, president of Achieve, a Washington-based organization that works with states on academic standards. “There is tremendous variation in what is taught in a course called biology or algebra 2.” Kati Haycock, director of the Education Trust, another Washington-based group that advocates standard-setting, said that as she traveled around the country, she found many schools not offering challenging work. “When you look at the assignments these kids get, it is just appalling,” she said. “A course may be labeled college-preparatory English. But if the kids get more than three-paragraph-long assignments, it is unusual. Or they’ll be asked to color a poster. We say ‘How about doing analysis?’ and they look at us like we are demented.” Other researchers have also found problems with the rigor of high school education. A study released last year by the National Center for Educational Accountability in Austin, Tex., for example, found that the majority of low-income students who received credit for a college-preparatory curriculum in Texas needed remedial help when they got to college Chrys Dougherty, the center’s research director, said the ACT report showed that the problem found in Texas was widespread, and that “many high school students are not learning the content implied by the titles of the courses in which they are enrolled.” ACT officials and other education analysts said that while educators must continue to improve what students learn in elementary and middle schools, so they will be ready to tackle more rigorous high school work, states must also begin to specify course standards and increase the capability of teachers in high school. The ACT report also found that students who took more courses than the minimum core curriculum performed better on their exams, and had a greater chance of doing well in college. But even then, college readiness was not assured. The report said that more advanced coursework was necessary to be well prepared after graduation, and that a rigorous set of core courses should achieve that. Next Article in Education (1 of 5) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Next Article in Education (1 of 5) &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Gonzales Pressed Ailing Ashcroft on Spy Plan, Aide Says Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/education/15cnd-report.html	In Study, College-Prep Classes Left Many Unready - New York Times In Study, College-Prep Classes Left Many Unready Published: May 15, 2007 Only one-quarter of high school students who take a full set of college-preparatory courses — four years of English and three each of mathematics, science and social studies — are well prepared for college, according to a new study of last year’s high school graduates released today by ACT, the Iowa testing organization. Skip to next paragraph Rigor at Risk: Reaffirming Quality in the High School Core Curriculum Executive Summary of Report The report analyzed approximately 1.2 million students who took the ACT college admissions test and graduated from high school last June. The study predicted whether the students had a good chance of scoring C or better in introductory college courses, based on their test scores and the success rates of past test takers. The study concluded that only 26 percent were ready for college-level work in all four core areas, while 19 percent were not adequately prepared in any of them. “It has become increasingly apparent that, while taking the right number of courses is certainly better than not, it is no longer enough,” the report said. Cynthia B. Schmeiser, president and chief operating officer of ACT’s education division, said she was stunned by the low level of accomplishment for students who had taken the core curriculum, which was recommended 24 years ago in “A Nation at Risk,” a United States Department of Education commission report that prompted widespread efforts to improve American education. “What’s shocking about this, is that since ‘A Nation at Risk,’ we have been encouraging students to take this core curriculum with the unspoken promise that when they do, they will be college-ready,” she said. “What we have found, now, is that when they do, only one in four is ready for college-level work.” ACT reported that 54 percent of last year’s graduates who took the ACT exam said they had taken at least a core curriculum. Those who had not taken this minimum curriculum fared even worse: only 14 percent were judged ready for college work in all four subject areas, while 36 percent were not prepared in any. The report released today, entitled “Rigor at Risk: Reaffirming Quality in the High School Core Curriculum,” is a sign of growing attention to secondary education, after decades of emphasis on elementary and middle schools, and to what students are really learning in high school. In 1999, Clifford Adelman, then a researcher at the federal Department of Education, found that the strength of high school work was the most important factor in determining college success, even more than the socioeconomic status of a student’s family. The new report, which cites Mr. Adelman’s research, makes the case that many high school courses are not providing the necessary quality that he described. “Course titles don’t matter nearly as much as what is taught and how it is taught,” said Michael Cohen, president of Achieve, a Washington-based organization that works with states on academic standards. “There is tremendous variation in what is taught in a course called biology or algebra 2.” Kati Haycock, director of the Education Trust, another Washington-based group that advocates standard-setting, said that as she traveled around the country, she found many schools not offering challenging work. “When you look at the assignments these kids get, it is just appalling,” she said. “A course may be labeled college-preparatory English. But if the kids get more than three-paragraph-long assignments, it is unusual. Or they’ll be asked to color a poster. We say ‘How about doing analysis?’ and they look at us like we are demented.” Other researchers have also found problems with the rigor of high school education. A study released last year by the National Center for Educational Accountability in Austin, Tex., for example, found that the majority of low-income students who received credit for a college-preparatory curriculum in Texas needed remedial help when they got to college Chrys Dougherty, the center’s research director, said the ACT report showed that the problem found in Texas was widespread, and that “many high school students are not learning the content implied by the titles of the courses in which they are enrolled.” ACT officials and other education analysts said that while educators must continue to improve what students learn in elementary and middle schools, so they will be ready to tackle more rigorous high school work, states must also begin to specify course standards and increase the capability of teachers in high school. The ACT report also found that students who took more courses than the minimum core curriculum performed better on their exams, and had a greater chance of doing well in college. But even then, college readiness was not assured. The report said that more advanced coursework was necessary to be well prepared after graduation, and that a rigorous set of core courses should achieve that. Next Article in Education (1 of 5) &#x00bb; Don’t have TimesSelect? What are you waiting for? Try it free for 14 days. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Next Article in Education (1 of 5) &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Fifth Avenue at Sixty-Fifth Street, 1901 N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/education/15cnd-report.html	In Study, College-Prep Classes Left Many Unready - New York Times In Study, College-Prep Classes Left Many Unready Published: May 15, 2007 Only one-quarter of high school students who take a full set of college-preparatory courses — four years of English and three each of mathematics, science and social studies — are well prepared for college, according to a new study of last year’s high school graduates released today by ACT, the Iowa testing organization. Skip to next paragraph Rigor at Risk: Reaffirming Quality in the High School Core Curriculum Executive Summary of Report The report analyzed approximately 1.2 million students who took the ACT college admissions test and graduated from high school last June. The study predicted whether the students had a good chance of scoring C or better in introductory college courses, based on their test scores and the success rates of past test takers. The study concluded that only 26 percent were ready for college-level work in all four core areas, while 19 percent were not adequately prepared in any of them. “It has become increasingly apparent that, while taking the right number of courses is certainly better than not, it is no longer enough,” the report said. Cynthia B. Schmeiser, president and chief operating officer of ACT’s education division, said she was stunned by the low level of accomplishment for students who had taken the core curriculum, which was recommended 24 years ago in “A Nation at Risk,” a United States Department of Education commission report that prompted widespread efforts to improve American education. “What’s shocking about this, is that since ‘A Nation at Risk,’ we have been encouraging students to take this core curriculum with the unspoken promise that when they do, they will be college-ready,” she said. “What we have found, now, is that when they do, only one in four is ready for college-level work.” ACT reported that 54 percent of last year’s graduates who took the ACT exam said they had taken at least a core curriculum. Those who had not taken this minimum curriculum fared even worse: only 14 percent were judged ready for college work in all four subject areas, while 36 percent were not prepared in any. The report released today, entitled “Rigor at Risk: Reaffirming Quality in the High School Core Curriculum,” is a sign of growing attention to secondary education, after decades of emphasis on elementary and middle schools, and to what students are really learning in high school. In 1999, Clifford Adelman, then a researcher at the federal Department of Education, found that the strength of high school work was the most important factor in determining college success, even more than the socioeconomic status of a student’s family. The new report, which cites Mr. Adelman’s research, makes the case that many high school courses are not providing the necessary quality that he described. “Course titles don’t matter nearly as much as what is taught and how it is taught,” said Michael Cohen, president of Achieve, a Washington-based organization that works with states on academic standards. “There is tremendous variation in what is taught in a course called biology or algebra 2.” Kati Haycock, director of the Education Trust, another Washington-based group that advocates standard-setting, said that as she traveled around the country, she found many schools not offering challenging work. “When you look at the assignments these kids get, it is just appalling,” she said. “A course may be labeled college-preparatory English. But if the kids get more than three-paragraph-long assignments, it is unusual. Or they’ll be asked to color a poster. We say ‘How about doing analysis?’ and they look at us like we are demented.” Other researchers have also found problems with the rigor of high school education. A study released last year by the National Center for Educational Accountability in Austin, Tex., for example, found that the majority of low-income students who received credit for a college-preparatory curriculum in Texas needed remedial help when they got to college Chrys Dougherty, the center’s research director, said the ACT report showed that the problem found in Texas was widespread, and that “many high school students are not learning the content implied by the titles of the courses in which they are enrolled.” ACT officials and other education analysts said that while educators must continue to improve what students learn in elementary and middle schools, so they will be ready to tackle more rigorous high school work, states must also begin to specify course standards and increase the capability of teachers in high school. The ACT report also found that students who took more courses than the minimum core curriculum performed better on their exams, and had a greater chance of doing well in college. But even then, college readiness was not assured. The report said that more advanced coursework was necessary to be well prepared after graduation, and that a rigorous set of core courses should achieve that. Next Article in Education (1 of 5) &#x00bb; Don’t have TimesSelect? What are you waiting for? Try it free for 14 days. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Next Article in Education (1 of 5) &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Fifth Avenue at Sixty-Fifth Street, 1901 N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/world/asia/15cnd-pakista.html	Suicide Bombing Kills at Least 22 in Pakistan - New York Times Suicide Bombing Kills at Least 22 in Pakistan Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 15, 2007 PESHAWAR, May 15 — Twenty-two people were killed and 30 wounded here today when a suicide bomber struck a crowded restaurant in a busy part of the old city, police and hospital officials said. The bomb exploded at about 12:55 p.m. at the Marhaba Restaurant, which is on the ground floor of a four-story building opposite the historic Mohabat Khan mosque. The powerful explosion seriously damaged the hotel and caused damage to nearby shops and buildings. All that was left of the restaurant were shattered window panes and twisted fans hanging from the ceiling. It was not clear why the bomber targeted the restaurant, which is frequented by local residents who work in a nearby jewelry market and at the city’s biggest teaching hospital. But witnesses and police said the restaurant was owned by an Uzbek of Afghan origin who was affiliated with former Uzbek warlord Abdur Rashid Dostum. Posters of Mr. Dostrum adorned the walls of the restaurant. The owner of the restaurant, his brother and his son died in the explosion. “It definitely was a suicide bombing,” chief investigator, Fayaz Toru, told Dawn, an English-language newspaper in Karachi. He added that the initial investigation indicated the incident fit the pattern of similar suicide bombings in the area. News services reported that the provincial police chief, Sharif Virk, said he had recovered a suicide note written in an Afghan variant of Persian called Dari, as well as in Pashto, warning that those who spied for the United States face a similar fate. But Mr. Virk and other police investigators distanced themselves from those reports. Qazi Jamilur Rehman, head of the investigating team, denied that a suicide note had been recovered. “We are yet to reach any conclusion, but this can be said, that it was in reaction to the prevalent geo-political scenario in the region,” Mr. Virk told Dawn. Investigators and security officiald also denied news service reports that the suicide bombing may have been linked to the arrest of a close relative of Mullah Dadullah days before Mr. Dadullah was killed in the southwestern Helmand province in Afghanistan. Mr. Dadullah, probably the ’s foremost operational commander, was killed in a joint operation by Afghan security forces, American forces and Law Minister Malik Zafar Azam said the explosion could have been related to other bombings in the tribal regions and the presence of U.S. troops in Body parts could be seen scattered at the scene of today’s attack, and most of the bodies were charred. Victims were rushed to the nearby Lady Reading Hospital, about 200 meters from the spot, and the government declared an emergency. Two women and a child were among those killed. Mr. Toru said that the police found nuts and bolts, often used in suicide explosions, at the scene. “I was in the kitchen when I heard a big explosion and fell unconscious,” said Muslim Shah, a cook at the restaurant, who was injured. Chief Minister Akram Khan Durrani condemned the incident and announced that the families of those killed an injured would receive financial compensation. The explosion was the second recent suicide bombing in the area. On April 28, 32 people were killed when a suicide bomber struck a rally during an address by Interior Minister Aftab Ahmad Khan Sherpao in his town of Charsadda, northeast of Peshawar. On January 27, 15 people were killed, among them senior police officers, when a suicide bomber blew himself up in the heart of Peshawar City. More Articles in International &#x00bb; Access 100 articles a month from The Archive - get it now with TimesSelect To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. More Articles in International &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Nineteen foot Chris-Craft Racer, 1930's. N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/world/asia/15cnd-pakista.html	Suicide Bombing Kills at Least 22 in Pakistan - New York Times Suicide Bombing Kills at Least 22 in Pakistan Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 15, 2007 PESHAWAR, May 15 — Twenty-two people were killed and 30 wounded here today when a suicide bomber struck a crowded restaurant in a busy part of the old city, police and hospital officials said. The bomb exploded at about 12:55 p.m. at the Marhaba Restaurant, which is on the ground floor of a four-story building opposite the historic Mohabat Khan mosque. The powerful explosion seriously damaged the hotel and caused damage to nearby shops and buildings. All that was left of the restaurant were shattered window panes and twisted fans hanging from the ceiling. It was not clear why the bomber targeted the restaurant, which is frequented by local residents who work in a nearby jewelry market and at the city’s biggest teaching hospital. But witnesses and police said the restaurant was owned by an Uzbek of Afghan origin who was affiliated with former Uzbek warlord Abdur Rashid Dostum. Posters of Mr. Dostrum adorned the walls of the restaurant. The owner of the restaurant, his brother and his son died in the explosion. “It definitely was a suicide bombing,” chief investigator, Fayaz Toru, told Dawn, an English-language newspaper in Karachi. He added that the initial investigation indicated the incident fit the pattern of similar suicide bombings in the area. News services reported that the provincial police chief, Sharif Virk, said he had recovered a suicide note written in an Afghan variant of Persian called Dari, as well as in Pashto, warning that those who spied for the United States face a similar fate. But Mr. Virk and other police investigators distanced themselves from those reports. Qazi Jamilur Rehman, head of the investigating team, denied that a suicide note had been recovered. “We are yet to reach any conclusion, but this can be said, that it was in reaction to the prevalent geo-political scenario in the region,” Mr. Virk told Dawn. Investigators and security officiald also denied news service reports that the suicide bombing may have been linked to the arrest of a close relative of Mullah Dadullah days before Mr. Dadullah was killed in the southwestern Helmand province in Afghanistan. Mr. Dadullah, probably the ’s foremost operational commander, was killed in a joint operation by Afghan security forces, American forces and Law Minister Malik Zafar Azam said the explosion could have been related to other bombings in the tribal regions and the presence of U.S. troops in Body parts could be seen scattered at the scene of today’s attack, and most of the bodies were charred. Victims were rushed to the nearby Lady Reading Hospital, about 200 meters from the spot, and the government declared an emergency. Two women and a child were among those killed. Mr. Toru said that the police found nuts and bolts, often used in suicide explosions, at the scene. “I was in the kitchen when I heard a big explosion and fell unconscious,” said Muslim Shah, a cook at the restaurant, who was injured. Chief Minister Akram Khan Durrani condemned the incident and announced that the families of those killed an injured would receive financial compensation. The explosion was the second recent suicide bombing in the area. On April 28, 32 people were killed when a suicide bomber struck a rally during an address by Interior Minister Aftab Ahmad Khan Sherpao in his town of Charsadda, northeast of Peshawar. On January 27, 15 people were killed, among them senior police officers, when a suicide bomber blew himself up in the heart of Peshawar City. More Articles in International &#x00bb; Access 100 articles a month from The Archive - get it now with TimesSelect To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. More Articles in International &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Nineteen foot Chris-Craft Racer, 1930's. N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/world/asia/15cnd-pakista.html?ex=1336881600&en=29f7eb8bbf44d27c&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Suicide Bombing Kills at Least 22 in Pakistan - New York Times Suicide Bombing Kills at Least 22 in Pakistan Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 15, 2007 PESHAWAR, May 15 — Twenty-two people were killed and 30 wounded here today when a suicide bomber struck a crowded restaurant in a busy part of the old city, police and hospital officials said. The bomb exploded at about 12:55 p.m. at the Marhaba Restaurant, which is on the ground floor of a four-story building opposite the historic Mohabat Khan mosque. The powerful explosion seriously damaged the hotel and caused damage to nearby shops and buildings. All that was left of the restaurant were shattered window panes and twisted fans hanging from the ceiling. It was not clear why the bomber targeted the restaurant, which is frequented by local residents who work in a nearby jewelry market and at the city’s biggest teaching hospital. But witnesses and police said the restaurant was owned by an Uzbek of Afghan origin who was affiliated with former Uzbek warlord Abdur Rashid Dostum. Posters of Mr. Dostrum adorned the walls of the restaurant. The owner of the restaurant, his brother and his son died in the explosion. “It definitely was a suicide bombing,” chief investigator, Fayaz Toru, told Dawn, an English-language newspaper in Karachi. He added that the initial investigation indicated the incident fit the pattern of similar suicide bombings in the area. News services reported that the provincial police chief, Sharif Virk, said he had recovered a suicide note written in an Afghan variant of Persian called Dari, as well as in Pashto, warning that those who spied for the United States face a similar fate. But Mr. Virk and other police investigators distanced themselves from those reports. Qazi Jamilur Rehman, head of the investigating team, denied that a suicide note had been recovered. “We are yet to reach any conclusion, but this can be said, that it was in reaction to the prevalent geo-political scenario in the region,” Mr. Virk told Dawn. Investigators and security officiald also denied news service reports that the suicide bombing may have been linked to the arrest of a close relative of Mullah Dadullah days before Mr. Dadullah was killed in the southwestern Helmand province in Afghanistan. Mr. Dadullah, probably the ’s foremost operational commander, was killed in a joint operation by Afghan security forces, American forces and Law Minister Malik Zafar Azam said the explosion could have been related to other bombings in the tribal regions and the presence of U.S. troops in Body parts could be seen scattered at the scene of today’s attack, and most of the bodies were charred. Victims were rushed to the nearby Lady Reading Hospital, about 200 meters from the spot, and the government declared an emergency. Two women and a child were among those killed. Mr. Toru said that the police found nuts and bolts, often used in suicide explosions, at the scene. “I was in the kitchen when I heard a big explosion and fell unconscious,” said Muslim Shah, a cook at the restaurant, who was injured. Chief Minister Akram Khan Durrani condemned the incident and announced that the families of those killed an injured would receive financial compensation. The explosion was the second recent suicide bombing in the area. On April 28, 32 people were killed when a suicide bomber struck a rally during an address by Interior Minister Aftab Ahmad Khan Sherpao in his town of Charsadda, northeast of Peshawar. On January 27, 15 people were killed, among them senior police officers, when a suicide bomber blew himself up in the heart of Peshawar City. More Articles in International &#x00bb; Start your 14-day free trial of TimesSelect now. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. More Articles in International &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Gonzales Pressed Ailing Ashcroft on Spy Plan, Aide Says Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/world/asia/15cnd-pakista.html?ex=1336881600&en=29f7eb8bbf44d27c&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Suicide Bombing Kills at Least 22 in Pakistan - New York Times Suicide Bombing Kills at Least 22 in Pakistan Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 15, 2007 PESHAWAR, May 15 — Twenty-two people were killed and 30 wounded here today when a suicide bomber struck a crowded restaurant in a busy part of the old city, police and hospital officials said. The bomb exploded at about 12:55 p.m. at the Marhaba Restaurant, which is on the ground floor of a four-story building opposite the historic Mohabat Khan mosque. The powerful explosion seriously damaged the hotel and caused damage to nearby shops and buildings. All that was left of the restaurant were shattered window panes and twisted fans hanging from the ceiling. It was not clear why the bomber targeted the restaurant, which is frequented by local residents who work in a nearby jewelry market and at the city’s biggest teaching hospital. But witnesses and police said the restaurant was owned by an Uzbek of Afghan origin who was affiliated with former Uzbek warlord Abdur Rashid Dostum. Posters of Mr. Dostrum adorned the walls of the restaurant. The owner of the restaurant, his brother and his son died in the explosion. “It definitely was a suicide bombing,” chief investigator, Fayaz Toru, told Dawn, an English-language newspaper in Karachi. He added that the initial investigation indicated the incident fit the pattern of similar suicide bombings in the area. News services reported that the provincial police chief, Sharif Virk, said he had recovered a suicide note written in an Afghan variant of Persian called Dari, as well as in Pashto, warning that those who spied for the United States face a similar fate. But Mr. Virk and other police investigators distanced themselves from those reports. Qazi Jamilur Rehman, head of the investigating team, denied that a suicide note had been recovered. “We are yet to reach any conclusion, but this can be said, that it was in reaction to the prevalent geo-political scenario in the region,” Mr. Virk told Dawn. Investigators and security officiald also denied news service reports that the suicide bombing may have been linked to the arrest of a close relative of Mullah Dadullah days before Mr. Dadullah was killed in the southwestern Helmand province in Afghanistan. Mr. Dadullah, probably the ’s foremost operational commander, was killed in a joint operation by Afghan security forces, American forces and Law Minister Malik Zafar Azam said the explosion could have been related to other bombings in the tribal regions and the presence of U.S. troops in Body parts could be seen scattered at the scene of today’s attack, and most of the bodies were charred. Victims were rushed to the nearby Lady Reading Hospital, about 200 meters from the spot, and the government declared an emergency. Two women and a child were among those killed. Mr. Toru said that the police found nuts and bolts, often used in suicide explosions, at the scene. “I was in the kitchen when I heard a big explosion and fell unconscious,” said Muslim Shah, a cook at the restaurant, who was injured. Chief Minister Akram Khan Durrani condemned the incident and announced that the families of those killed an injured would receive financial compensation. The explosion was the second recent suicide bombing in the area. On April 28, 32 people were killed when a suicide bomber struck a rally during an address by Interior Minister Aftab Ahmad Khan Sherpao in his town of Charsadda, northeast of Peshawar. On January 27, 15 people were killed, among them senior police officers, when a suicide bomber blew himself up in the heart of Peshawar City. More Articles in International &#x00bb; Start your 14-day free trial of TimesSelect now. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. More Articles in International &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Gonzales Pressed Ailing Ashcroft on Spy Plan, Aide Says Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/washington/15cnd-attorneys.html	Gonzales Pressed Ailing Ashcroft on Spy Plan, Aide Says - New York Times Gonzales Pressed Ailing Ashcroft on Spy Plan, Aide Says Stephen Crowley/The New York Times Former Deputy Attorney General James Comey testifying before the Senate Judiciary Committee hearing today. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 15, 2007 WASHINGTON, May 15 &#151; On the night of March 10, 2004, a high-ranking Justice Department official rushed to a Washington hospital to prevent two White House aides from taking advantage of the critically ill Attorney General, , the official testified today. One of those aides was , who was then White House counsel and eventually succeeded Mr. Ashcroft as Attorney General. &#8220;I was very upset,&#8221; said , who was deputy Attorney General at the time, in his testimony today before the Senate Judiciary Committee. &#8220;I was angry. I thought I had just witnessed an effort to take advantage of a very sick man, who did not have the powers of the attorney general because they had been transferred to me.&#8221; The hospital visit by Mr. Gonzales and Andrew H. Card Jr. , who was then White House chief of staff, has been disclosed before, but never in such dramatic, personal detail. Mr. Comey&#8217;s account offered a rare and titillating glimpse of a Washington power struggle, complete with a late-night showdown in the White House after a dramatic encounter in a darkened hospital room &#151; in short, elements of a potboiler paperback novel. Mr. Comey related his story to the committee, which is investigating various aspects of Mr. Gonzales&#8217;s tenure as Attorney General, including the recent dismissals of eight and allegations that applicants for traditionally nonpartisan career prosecutor jobs were screened for political loyalties. Although Mr. Comey declined to say specifically what the business was that sent Mr. Gonzales to the bedside of Mr. Ashcroft in George Washington Hospital, where he lay critically ill with pancreatitis, it was clear that the subject was the &#8217;s secret domestic surveillance program. The signature of Mr. Ashcroft or his surrogate was needed by the next day, March 11, in order to renew the program, which was still secret at that time. Since the existence of the program was disclosed by The New York Times in late 2005, it has been reported that it was the subject of a tense debate at the highest levels of the Bush administration, with some officials concerned that the program was not adequately supervised, and others having more fundamental worries. Around the time of the hospital incident, the White House suspended parts of the program for several months and imposed tougher requirements on the National Security Agency on how the program was to be used.Mr. Comey told the committee today that when Mr. Ashcroft was ill and he was in charge at the Justice Department, he told the White House he would not certify the program again &#8220;as to its legality.&#8221; On the night of March 10, as he was being driven home by his security detail, he got a telephone call from Mr. Ashcroft&#8217;s chief of staff, who had just been contacted by Mr. Ashcroft&#8217;s wife, Janet. Although Mrs. Ashcroft had banned visitors and telephone calls to her husband&#8217;s hospital room, she had just gotten a call from the White House telling her that Mr. Card and Mr. Gonzales were on their way to see her husband, Mr. Comey testified. &#8220;I have some recollection that the call was from the president himself, but I don&#8217;t know that for sure,&#8221; Mr. Comey said. He said his security detail then sped him to the hospital with sirens blaring and emergency lights flashing, while he telephoned the director of the , Robert S. Mueller 3d, from the car. Mr. Mueller shared his sense of urgency: &#8220;He said, &#8216;I&#8217;ll meet you at the hospital right now,&#8217; &#8221; Mr. Comey testified. When he got to the hospital, Mr. Comey recalled, &#8220;I got out of the car and ran up &#151; literally, ran up the stairs with my security detail.&#8221; &#8220;What was your concern?&#8221; asked Senator , Democrat of New York, who was the chairman of today&#8217;s committee session. &#8220;I was concerned that, given how ill I knew the attorney general was, that there might be an effort to ask him to overrule me when he was in no condition to do that,&#8221; Mr. Comey replied. Mr. Comey recalled arriving at the darkened hospital room, where Mr. Ashcroft seemed hardly aware of his surroundings. For a time, only Mr. Comey and the Ashcrofts were in the room. Meanwhile, Mr. Mueller, who had not yet arrived, told Mr. Comey&#8217;s security detail by phone &#8220;not to allow me to be removed from the room under any circumstances,&#8221; Mr. Comey testified. Minutes later, he said, Mr. Gonzales and Mr. Card entered the room, with Mr. Gonzales carrying an envelope. &#8220;And then Mr. Gonzales began to discuss why they were there, to seek his approval for a matter,&#8221; Mr. Comey related. &#8220;And Attorney General Ashcroft then stunned me,&#8221; Mr. Comey went on: He raised his head from the pillow, reiterated his objections to the program, then lay back down, pointing to Mr. Comey as the attorney general during his illness. When Mr. Mueller arrived, &#8220;he had a brief, a memorable brief exchange with the attorney general, and then we went outside in the hallway,&#8221; Mr. Comey said. Mr. Gonzales and Mr. Card departed, but after a while, Mr. Card telephoned Mr. Comey and &#8220;demanded that I come to the White House immediately,&#8221; Mr. Comey said. &#8220;After what I just witnessed, I will not meet with you without a witness, and I intend that witness to be the solicitor general of the United States,&#8221; Mr. Comey said he told Mr. Card. Whereupon, Mr. Comey said, he contacted the solicitor general, , who was at a dinner party, and arranged to go with him to the White House. At first, Mr. Card would not let Mr. Olson enter his office, Mr. Comey said; he then had a considerably calmer private chat with Mr. Card for a quarter-hour, after which Mr. Olson entered the room and took part in the conversation. &#8220;Mr. Card was concerned that he had heard reports that there were to be a large number of resignations at the Department of Justice,&#8221; Mr. Comey recalled. Mr. Ashcroft had such serious reservations about the program that he considered resigning then, Mr. Comey testified. Instead, he stayed on until November 2004. Mr. Mueller, too, considered resigning, Mr. Comey said. &#8220;You had conversations with him about it?&#8221; Mr. Schumer asked. &#8220;Yes,&#8221; Mr. Comey replied.The surveillance program was reauthorized on March 11, 2004, without a signature from the Department of Justice &#8220;attesting to its legality,&#8221; Mr. Comey testified. Mr. Comey said today that he intended to resign the next day, March 12. But terrorists carried out deadly train bombings in Madrid on March 11, prompting him to put his plans on hold; he remained on the job until August 2005. Even before Mr. Comey&#8217;s testimony, Mr. Schumer and Senator of Pennsylvania, the panel&#8217;s ranking Republican, reiterated their low opinion of Mr. Gonzales as attorney general. &#8220;He&#8217;s presided over a Justice Department where being a, quote, loyal Bushie seems to be more important than being a seasoned professional, where what the White House wants is more important than what the law requires or what prudence dictates,&#8221; Mr. Schumer said. &#8220;It is the decision of Mr. Gonzales as to whether he stays or goes, but it is hard to see how the Department of Justice can function and perform its important duties with Mr. Gonzales remaining where he is,&#8221; Mr Specter said. &#8220;And beyond Mr. Gonzales&#8217; decision, it&#8217;s a matter for the president as to whether the president will retain the attorney general or not.&#8221; More Articles in Washington &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. More Articles in Washington &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Liberty Framed by World Trade Center - 1983 N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/washington/15cnd-attorneys.html	Gonzales Pressed Ailing Ashcroft on Spy Plan, Aide Says - New York Times Gonzales Pressed Ailing Ashcroft on Spy Plan, Aide Says Stephen Crowley/The New York Times Former Deputy Attorney General James Comey testifying before the Senate Judiciary Committee hearing today. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 15, 2007 WASHINGTON, May 15 &#151; On the night of March 10, 2004, a high-ranking Justice Department official rushed to a Washington hospital to prevent two White House aides from taking advantage of the critically ill Attorney General, , the official testified today. One of those aides was , who was then White House counsel and eventually succeeded Mr. Ashcroft as Attorney General. &#8220;I was very upset,&#8221; said , who was deputy Attorney General at the time, in his testimony today before the Senate Judiciary Committee. &#8220;I was angry. I thought I had just witnessed an effort to take advantage of a very sick man, who did not have the powers of the attorney general because they had been transferred to me.&#8221; The hospital visit by Mr. Gonzales and Andrew H. Card Jr. , who was then White House chief of staff, has been disclosed before, but never in such dramatic, personal detail. Mr. Comey&#8217;s account offered a rare and titillating glimpse of a Washington power struggle, complete with a late-night showdown in the White House after a dramatic encounter in a darkened hospital room &#151; in short, elements of a potboiler paperback novel. Mr. Comey related his story to the committee, which is investigating various aspects of Mr. Gonzales&#8217;s tenure as Attorney General, including the recent dismissals of eight and allegations that applicants for traditionally nonpartisan career prosecutor jobs were screened for political loyalties. Although Mr. Comey declined to say specifically what the business was that sent Mr. Gonzales to the bedside of Mr. Ashcroft in George Washington Hospital, where he lay critically ill with pancreatitis, it was clear that the subject was the &#8217;s secret domestic surveillance program. The signature of Mr. Ashcroft or his surrogate was needed by the next day, March 11, in order to renew the program, which was still secret at that time. Since the existence of the program was disclosed by The New York Times in late 2005, it has been reported that it was the subject of a tense debate at the highest levels of the Bush administration, with some officials concerned that the program was not adequately supervised, and others having more fundamental worries. Around the time of the hospital incident, the White House suspended parts of the program for several months and imposed tougher requirements on the National Security Agency on how the program was to be used.Mr. Comey told the committee today that when Mr. Ashcroft was ill and he was in charge at the Justice Department, he told the White House he would not certify the program again &#8220;as to its legality.&#8221; On the night of March 10, as he was being driven home by his security detail, he got a telephone call from Mr. Ashcroft&#8217;s chief of staff, who had just been contacted by Mr. Ashcroft&#8217;s wife, Janet. Although Mrs. Ashcroft had banned visitors and telephone calls to her husband&#8217;s hospital room, she had just gotten a call from the White House telling her that Mr. Card and Mr. Gonzales were on their way to see her husband, Mr. Comey testified. &#8220;I have some recollection that the call was from the president himself, but I don&#8217;t know that for sure,&#8221; Mr. Comey said. He said his security detail then sped him to the hospital with sirens blaring and emergency lights flashing, while he telephoned the director of the , Robert S. Mueller 3d, from the car. Mr. Mueller shared his sense of urgency: &#8220;He said, &#8216;I&#8217;ll meet you at the hospital right now,&#8217; &#8221; Mr. Comey testified. When he got to the hospital, Mr. Comey recalled, &#8220;I got out of the car and ran up &#151; literally, ran up the stairs with my security detail.&#8221; &#8220;What was your concern?&#8221; asked Senator , Democrat of New York, who was the chairman of today&#8217;s committee session. &#8220;I was concerned that, given how ill I knew the attorney general was, that there might be an effort to ask him to overrule me when he was in no condition to do that,&#8221; Mr. Comey replied. Mr. Comey recalled arriving at the darkened hospital room, where Mr. Ashcroft seemed hardly aware of his surroundings. For a time, only Mr. Comey and the Ashcrofts were in the room. Meanwhile, Mr. Mueller, who had not yet arrived, told Mr. Comey&#8217;s security detail by phone &#8220;not to allow me to be removed from the room under any circumstances,&#8221; Mr. Comey testified. Minutes later, he said, Mr. Gonzales and Mr. Card entered the room, with Mr. Gonzales carrying an envelope. &#8220;And then Mr. Gonzales began to discuss why they were there, to seek his approval for a matter,&#8221; Mr. Comey related. &#8220;And Attorney General Ashcroft then stunned me,&#8221; Mr. Comey went on: He raised his head from the pillow, reiterated his objections to the program, then lay back down, pointing to Mr. Comey as the attorney general during his illness. When Mr. Mueller arrived, &#8220;he had a brief, a memorable brief exchange with the attorney general, and then we went outside in the hallway,&#8221; Mr. Comey said. Mr. Gonzales and Mr. Card departed, but after a while, Mr. Card telephoned Mr. Comey and &#8220;demanded that I come to the White House immediately,&#8221; Mr. Comey said. &#8220;After what I just witnessed, I will not meet with you without a witness, and I intend that witness to be the solicitor general of the United States,&#8221; Mr. Comey said he told Mr. Card. Whereupon, Mr. Comey said, he contacted the solicitor general, , who was at a dinner party, and arranged to go with him to the White House. At first, Mr. Card would not let Mr. Olson enter his office, Mr. Comey said; he then had a considerably calmer private chat with Mr. Card for a quarter-hour, after which Mr. Olson entered the room and took part in the conversation. &#8220;Mr. Card was concerned that he had heard reports that there were to be a large number of resignations at the Department of Justice,&#8221; Mr. Comey recalled. Mr. Ashcroft had such serious reservations about the program that he considered resigning then, Mr. Comey testified. Instead, he stayed on until November 2004. Mr. Mueller, too, considered resigning, Mr. Comey said. &#8220;You had conversations with him about it?&#8221; Mr. Schumer asked. &#8220;Yes,&#8221; Mr. Comey replied.The surveillance program was reauthorized on March 11, 2004, without a signature from the Department of Justice &#8220;attesting to its legality,&#8221; Mr. Comey testified. Mr. Comey said today that he intended to resign the next day, March 12. But terrorists carried out deadly train bombings in Madrid on March 11, prompting him to put his plans on hold; he remained on the job until August 2005. Even before Mr. Comey&#8217;s testimony, Mr. Schumer and Senator of Pennsylvania, the panel&#8217;s ranking Republican, reiterated their low opinion of Mr. Gonzales as attorney general. &#8220;He&#8217;s presided over a Justice Department where being a, quote, loyal Bushie seems to be more important than being a seasoned professional, where what the White House wants is more important than what the law requires or what prudence dictates,&#8221; Mr. Schumer said. &#8220;It is the decision of Mr. Gonzales as to whether he stays or goes, but it is hard to see how the Department of Justice can function and perform its important duties with Mr. Gonzales remaining where he is,&#8221; Mr Specter said. &#8220;And beyond Mr. Gonzales&#8217; decision, it&#8217;s a matter for the president as to whether the president will retain the attorney general or not.&#8221; More Articles in Washington &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. More Articles in Washington &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Liberty Framed by World Trade Center - 1983 N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/index.html?partner=rssnyt	The New York Times - Breaking News, World News & Multimedia Tuesday, May 15, 2007 NYT Archive Since 1981 Gonzales Pressed Ailing Ashcroft on Spy Plan, Aide Says James B. Comey’s account before the Senate Judiciary Committee offered a rare and titillating glimpse of a Washington power struggle. More From The Lede Tyco Paying $3 Billion to Settle Shareholder Suits The settlement, described as the largest payment in such a suit, seeks to put to rest a case that became synonymous with corporate excess. ‘Spring Awakening’ Gets 11 Tony Nominations In a season rich with contenders, “Spring Awakening,” a dark rock musical, led the field of Tony nominations. Times Topics: Tony Awards Rev. Jerry Falwell Is Dead at 73 Jerry Falwell, the fundamentalist preacher who founded the Moral Majority, died today shortly after he was found unconscious in his office at Liberty University. In Study, College-Prep Classes Left Many Unready Only 26 percent of high school students who take the core courses are well prepared for college, the study says. Inflation Is Tame Despite Rising Gas Prices By JEREMY W. PETERS Consumer prices rose 0.4 percent in April, while the core rate, which excludes food and gas, rose only 0.2 percent. Suicide Bombing Kills at Least 22 in Pakistan At Least 7 Killed in Gaza Fighting Thomson and Reuters Agree on Merger The Lede: Shock Jocks Suspended The Caucus: Clues to Tonight’s Debate The Lede: Unseating the Border Patrol Chief The Empire Zone: Giuliani Aide Lashes Back DealBook: ‘Private Equity Can Go Anyplace’ Talk to the Newsroom » The Times’s Matthew Purdy answers reader questions. Is Amputee Sprinter Too-Abled? Should athletes with prosthetics compete with able-bodied athletes? Stocks Close Mixed on Housing Report Man Eligible for Death in Ill. Slayings Pentagon General to Be 'War Czar' Clinton, Obama Support War Fund Cutoff “Canyon Passage” is a great western that resembles no other. The New York City police commissioner Raymond W. Kelly turns critic when viewing "The Naked City." No One Says ‘9/11.’ Allusions to the attacks are becoming fair game for movies and TV. Herbert: Paid Sick Days What Gets Left Behind When they move, New Yorkers “forget” to pack all sorts of things, from television sets and air-conditioners to drugs and handcuffs. More in Real Estate Mortgage News and Rates GOLD COAST GARDEN GEMThis charming floor-through ... See All Featured Properties Place a Classified Ad » In the Desert, an Oasis for Drag Racing Gearheads gather near Dubai to test their mettle at a complex for quarter-mile drag racing. Submit photos and comment on other readers' cars. Also, keep track of events Go to Photo Gallery Place a Classified Ad » Post a job online More in Job Market Browse jobs by industry Browse jobs by location Consultants and résumé writers might improve the odds of landing a high-paying job. Place a Classified Ad » Find a Classifieds listing Home & Garden Directory Small Inns & Lodges Post a classifieds ad online "The New York Film Academy offers intensive hands-on filmmaking, acting, animation and scre..."...... Place a Classified Ad » SAVE 50% ON HOME DELIVERY Have The New York Times waiting for you, for as little as $3.15 a week. N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker Photos, fine art, books and more. Be Prepared. Fight ID Theft. Equifax Credit Watch™. Equifax.com Earn 5.05% APY - Open a Complete Savings Acct from E*TRADE Bank Arabian capital of culture and strategic hub forges ahead Inspectors Cite Big Gain by Iran on Nuclear Fuel Turkish City Counters Fear of Islam’s Reach Bank’s Report Says Wolfowitz Violated Ethics Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Bush Calls for Work for Higher Fuel Efficiency U. of Texas Fires Officer Over Tie to Loan Company Gonzales’s Deputy Quits Justice Department Bush Calls for Work for Higher Fuel Efficiency Bank’s Report Says Wolfowitz Violated Ethics N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; The Freshman: Barely in Office, but G.O.P. Rivals Are Circling Lawyers Argue Legal Status of Gay Unions After Ordnance Scare, Beachgoers Told to Dig With Care A Giant Takes On Physics’ Biggest Questions Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Scientists Back Off Theory of a Colder Europe in a Warming World Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession The Consumer: As Demand for Donor Eggs Soars, High Prices Stir Ethical Concerns Oklahoma Chides Insurer in Medicare Marketing Case U. of Texas Fires Officer Over Tie to Loan Company Prestigious Private Schools Settle Rights Suit by a Non-Hawaiian 2 Suspended for School Prank That Scared Pupils in Tennessee What Gets Left Behind Streetscapes | Readers’ Questions: How the West Side Was Won National Perspectives: Reviving a No Man’s Land Along the Tennessee River News Analysis: In Deal, a Test for the U.A.W. Cerberus Goes Where No Firm Has Gone Before A Corporate Divorce on the Cheap New Motorola Phones Aim at High-End Market States Fault MySpace on Predator Issues On the Web, an Advanced Carbon Calculator for Personal Use Posada Is One Yankee That Can’t Be Replaced Oracle Rebounds in Challenger Series An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Family Travel | Shanghai for Kids: Amid Wheeler-Dealers, an Urban Playground Family Travel | In the Footsteps of Linnaeus: A Vast Garden of Knowledge, Still Blooming Today The Cape Town Area’s Endless Possibilities Dining & Wine &#x00bb; Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country Vital Signs: Nutrition: A Cardiovascular Argument for Eating Whole Grains The Way We Live Now: Ocean Blues Home & Garden &#x00bb; Aspiring to the Throne At Home With Charlie White: Order and Chaos in a Single Heartbeat In the Garden: It Takes a Hammer to Grow This Salad Fashion & Style &#x00bb; Clearly, Frankly, Unabashedly Disabled Girth and Nudity, a Pictorial Mission Modern Love: My First Lesson in Motherhood A Corporate Divorce on the Cheap News Analysis: In Deal, a Test for the U.A.W. A Chief With Union Roots Enters a Proving Ground Editorial: In Divided New Orleans Op-Ed Contributor: Friend or Faux? How to Define Progress in Iraq (6 Letters) ‘Spring Awakening’ Gets 11 Tony Nominations For ABC, Dramas Fill Out the Lineup Theater Review | 'Passing Strange': Look Back in Chagrin: A Rocker’s Progress Critic’s Choice: New DVDs Film: Moyduh, He Watched: Commissioner Turns Critic Film: No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. ‘Spring Awakening’ Gets 11 Tony Nominations Broadway’s Year of Tepid Hits Theater Review | 'Passing Strange': Look Back in Chagrin: A Rocker’s Progress 'The Pesthouse,' by Jim Crace: The Pesthouse 'Bad Luck and Trouble,' by Lee Child: He’s Taut of Style and Light of Foot Who Killed Kennedy? One Man’s Answer Week in Review &#x00bb; Speed Bump: When the Wheels Come Off a Sport The Nation: Genetic Testing + Abortion = ??? The World: See You in September, Whatever That Means The Flight From Iraq Writing in the Dark Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Gonzales Pressed Ailing Ashcroft on Spy Plan, Aide Says Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France About the NYT Co. Jobs at the NYT Co. Add New York Times headlines to your site Add New York Times RSS Feeds Get home delivery of The New York Times, as little as $3.15 a week. The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/index.html?partner=rssnyt	The New York Times - Breaking News, World News & Multimedia Tuesday, May 15, 2007 NYT Archive Since 1981 Gonzales Pressed Ailing Ashcroft on Spy Plan, Aide Says James B. Comey’s account before the Senate Judiciary Committee offered a rare and titillating glimpse of a Washington power struggle. More From The Lede Tyco Paying $3 Billion to Settle Shareholder Suits The settlement, described as the largest payment in such a suit, seeks to put to rest a case that became synonymous with corporate excess. ‘Spring Awakening’ Gets 11 Tony Nominations In a season rich with contenders, “Spring Awakening,” a dark rock musical, led the field of Tony nominations. Times Topics: Tony Awards Rev. Jerry Falwell Is Dead at 73 Jerry Falwell, the fundamentalist preacher who founded the Moral Majority, died today shortly after he was found unconscious in his office at Liberty University. In Study, College-Prep Classes Left Many Unready Only 26 percent of high school students who take the core courses are well prepared for college, the study says. Inflation Is Tame Despite Rising Gas Prices By JEREMY W. PETERS Consumer prices rose 0.4 percent in April, while the core rate, which excludes food and gas, rose only 0.2 percent. Suicide Bombing Kills at Least 22 in Pakistan At Least 7 Killed in Gaza Fighting Thomson and Reuters Agree on Merger The Lede: Shock Jocks Suspended The Caucus: Clues to Tonight’s Debate The Lede: Unseating the Border Patrol Chief The Empire Zone: Giuliani Aide Lashes Back DealBook: ‘Private Equity Can Go Anyplace’ Talk to the Newsroom » The Times’s Matthew Purdy answers reader questions. Is Amputee Sprinter Too-Abled? Should athletes with prosthetics compete with able-bodied athletes? Stocks Close Mixed on Housing Report Man Eligible for Death in Ill. Slayings Pentagon General to Be 'War Czar' Clinton, Obama Support War Fund Cutoff “Canyon Passage” is a great western that resembles no other. The New York City police commissioner Raymond W. Kelly turns critic when viewing "The Naked City." No One Says ‘9/11.’ Allusions to the attacks are becoming fair game for movies and TV. Herbert: Paid Sick Days What Gets Left Behind When they move, New Yorkers “forget” to pack all sorts of things, from television sets and air-conditioners to drugs and handcuffs. More in Real Estate Mortgage News and Rates GOLD COAST GARDEN GEMThis charming floor-through ... See All Featured Properties Place a Classified Ad » In the Desert, an Oasis for Drag Racing Gearheads gather near Dubai to test their mettle at a complex for quarter-mile drag racing. Submit photos and comment on other readers' cars. Also, keep track of events Go to Photo Gallery Place a Classified Ad » Post a job online More in Job Market Browse jobs by industry Browse jobs by location Consultants and résumé writers might improve the odds of landing a high-paying job. Place a Classified Ad » Find a Classifieds listing Home & Garden Directory Small Inns & Lodges Post a classifieds ad online "The New York Film Academy offers intensive hands-on filmmaking, acting, animation and scre..."...... Place a Classified Ad » SAVE 50% ON HOME DELIVERY Have The New York Times waiting for you, for as little as $3.15 a week. N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker Photos, fine art, books and more. Be Prepared. Fight ID Theft. Equifax Credit Watch™. Equifax.com Earn 5.05% APY - Open a Complete Savings Acct from E*TRADE Bank Arabian capital of culture and strategic hub forges ahead Inspectors Cite Big Gain by Iran on Nuclear Fuel Turkish City Counters Fear of Islam’s Reach Bank’s Report Says Wolfowitz Violated Ethics Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Bush Calls for Work for Higher Fuel Efficiency U. of Texas Fires Officer Over Tie to Loan Company Gonzales’s Deputy Quits Justice Department Bush Calls for Work for Higher Fuel Efficiency Bank’s Report Says Wolfowitz Violated Ethics N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; The Freshman: Barely in Office, but G.O.P. Rivals Are Circling Lawyers Argue Legal Status of Gay Unions After Ordnance Scare, Beachgoers Told to Dig With Care A Giant Takes On Physics’ Biggest Questions Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Scientists Back Off Theory of a Colder Europe in a Warming World Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession The Consumer: As Demand for Donor Eggs Soars, High Prices Stir Ethical Concerns Oklahoma Chides Insurer in Medicare Marketing Case U. of Texas Fires Officer Over Tie to Loan Company Prestigious Private Schools Settle Rights Suit by a Non-Hawaiian 2 Suspended for School Prank That Scared Pupils in Tennessee What Gets Left Behind Streetscapes | Readers’ Questions: How the West Side Was Won National Perspectives: Reviving a No Man’s Land Along the Tennessee River News Analysis: In Deal, a Test for the U.A.W. Cerberus Goes Where No Firm Has Gone Before A Corporate Divorce on the Cheap New Motorola Phones Aim at High-End Market States Fault MySpace on Predator Issues On the Web, an Advanced Carbon Calculator for Personal Use Posada Is One Yankee That Can’t Be Replaced Oracle Rebounds in Challenger Series An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Family Travel | Shanghai for Kids: Amid Wheeler-Dealers, an Urban Playground Family Travel | In the Footsteps of Linnaeus: A Vast Garden of Knowledge, Still Blooming Today The Cape Town Area’s Endless Possibilities Dining & Wine &#x00bb; Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country Vital Signs: Nutrition: A Cardiovascular Argument for Eating Whole Grains The Way We Live Now: Ocean Blues Home & Garden &#x00bb; Aspiring to the Throne At Home With Charlie White: Order and Chaos in a Single Heartbeat In the Garden: It Takes a Hammer to Grow This Salad Fashion & Style &#x00bb; Clearly, Frankly, Unabashedly Disabled Girth and Nudity, a Pictorial Mission Modern Love: My First Lesson in Motherhood A Corporate Divorce on the Cheap News Analysis: In Deal, a Test for the U.A.W. A Chief With Union Roots Enters a Proving Ground Editorial: In Divided New Orleans Op-Ed Contributor: Friend or Faux? How to Define Progress in Iraq (6 Letters) ‘Spring Awakening’ Gets 11 Tony Nominations For ABC, Dramas Fill Out the Lineup Theater Review | 'Passing Strange': Look Back in Chagrin: A Rocker’s Progress Critic’s Choice: New DVDs Film: Moyduh, He Watched: Commissioner Turns Critic Film: No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. ‘Spring Awakening’ Gets 11 Tony Nominations Broadway’s Year of Tepid Hits Theater Review | 'Passing Strange': Look Back in Chagrin: A Rocker’s Progress 'The Pesthouse,' by Jim Crace: The Pesthouse 'Bad Luck and Trouble,' by Lee Child: He’s Taut of Style and Light of Foot Who Killed Kennedy? One Man’s Answer Week in Review &#x00bb; Speed Bump: When the Wheels Come Off a Sport The Nation: Genetic Testing + Abortion = ??? The World: See You in September, Whatever That Means The Flight From Iraq Writing in the Dark Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Gonzales Pressed Ailing Ashcroft on Spy Plan, Aide Says Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France About the NYT Co. Jobs at the NYT Co. Add New York Times headlines to your site Add New York Times RSS Feeds Get home delivery of The New York Times, as little as $3.15 a week. The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/world/middleeast/15cnd-gaza.html?ex=1336881600&en=f77f23bbbf455bcd&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	At Least 7 Killed in Gaza Fighting - New York Times At Least 7 Killed in Gaza Fighting Mahmud Hams/Agence France-Presse — Getty Images A Palestinian child today in front of the bodies of slain Fatah security officers at the morgue in the Deir el-Balah hospital in the Gaza Strip. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 15, 2007 NAHAL OZ, Israel, May 15 &#151; Fighters from the military wing of , one of the two main Palestinian political factions, attacked security forces loyal to the rival Fatah faction at a location in Gaza near the border with Israel today, killing nine people, according to Fatah officials. Skip to next paragraph Mahmud Hams/Agence France-Presse — Getty Images Palestinians today carrying the body of a security force member into the morgue in the Deir el-Balah hospital in the Gaza Strip. The clashes extended an outbreak of factional violence to a third day, threatening the survival of the two-month-old &#8220;unity&#8221; government of the Palestinian Authority, the result of a power-sharing agreement between Hamas and Fatah. The attack by Hamas fighters on the Presidential Guard, which is loyal to the Palestinian president, of Fatah, seemed to be a direct challenge to his authority. Raising the stakes further, the Hamas military wing said that it had fired the Qassam rockets that hit the Israeli border town of Sderot this evening, wounding several civilians, one seriously. The Palestinian information minister, Mustafa Barghouti, warned that if the unity government collapses, the whole Palestinian Authority could go down with it. Israeli troops fired today at two armed Palestinians who were spotted close to the border fence opposite Nahal Oz, a kibbutz that abuts the Gaza Strip, killing one of the two, an army spokeswoman said. Local news reports identified the two as members of the Presidential Guard who were fleeing the Hamas attack at the Karni commercial border crossing, which is nearby. At least one other Palestinian was killed in factional violence in Gaza City today, bringing the death toll to about 20 since the clashes resumed on Sunday after three months of relative calm. Israeli tanks lined up on the Israeli side of the border this morning while fierce gun battles raged among the Palestinian forces on the other side, but the tanks had drawn back by early afternoon. In the evening, a barrage of Qassam rockets fired from Gaza struck Sderot, hitting a house and a school, army officials said. According to Israel Radio, Hamas said the rockets were meant to commemorate Nakba Day, when Palestinians mark the anniversary of what they call the &#8220;catastrophe&#8221; of the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948. During the day, the Prime Minister of Israel, , met with King Abdullah of Jordan in the port city of Aqaba. David Baker, an official in Mr. Olmert&#8217;s office, said the leaders had a &#8220;warm and productive meeting, in which they discussed ways of promoting the Israeli-Palestinian process.&#8221; Mr. Baker said the leaders also discussed ways of shoring up the position of Mr. Abbas and other relative moderates in the Palestinian Authority. But the intensity of today&#8217;s violence in Gaza raised serious doubts about the viability of the joint government, and about the future of the Palestinian Authority as a whole. One of the main purposes of the power-sharing agreement was to stop factional violence that was threatening to spiral into civil war. &#8220;If this government falls, it means the collapse of the Palestinian Authority, and with it, the end of all agreements,&#8221; said Mr. Barghouti, the government spokesman. Speaking by telephone from Ramallah, he said that President Abbas had told the Palestinian cabinet on Monday night, &#8220;This is my government, and if it falls, I will fall with it.&#8221; The attack on the Fatah-aligned forces guarding the Karni crossing was the most audacious show of force by Hamas since the violence restarted, and it ratcheted up the hostility level between the warring factions. A spokesman for Hamas&#8217;s police force, Islam Shahwan, said that today&#8217;s violence started with the killing of Ibrahim Maniah, 45, a member of the Hamas-linked Qassam Brigade militia, by members of the Fatah-linked Presidential Guard in the Gaza neighborhood of Sajaiya, near the Karni crossing. Mr. Shahwan called the killing an assasination; Fatah officials denied that, and said Mr. Maniah was killed during street clashes. Mr. Abbas&#8217;s Presidential Guard is responsible for security at the Karni crossing. A spokesman for the Presidential Guard, Wael Dahab, said that Hamas raided a security position there, firing guns and rocket-propelled grenades. Three jeeps from the pro-Fatah National Security Forces drove toward Karni to provide backup to the Presidential Guard, but one of the vehicles overturned on the road, Fatah spokesmen said. Tawfiq Abu Houssa, a Fatah security official, said that Qassam Brigade members then went up to the overturned jeep and killed the seven men inside, shooting them &#8220;in cold blood, at close range.&#8221; He said their weapons were stolen. A Hamas spokesman, Fawzi Barhoum, said that the &#8220;Fatah accusations came without any investigation.&#8221; Earlier, Hamas spokesmen said Israel was to blame for the deaths of the National Security Force members, saying they were killed by a tank shell fired from across the border that struck the jeep. But the Israeli army spokeswoman denied that any shells had been fired. The Palestinian information minister, Mr. Barghouti, a political independent, said that the day&#8217;s events were still under investigation, and that &#8220;both sides&#8221; were responsible for the violence. By the afternoon, Gaza was mostly quiet, though sporadic bursts of gunfire could be heard. Across the border in the Nahal Oz kibbutz, tractors worked to harvest a carrot crop until a Qassam rocket landed in an open field at about 3 p.m., the first rocket to be fired today, the Israeli army said. Inside Gaza the atmosphere remained tense. Most people stayed at home, stores were closed, and gunmen from Hamas or Fatah took up positions in taller buildings in Gaza City, while Egyptian officials worked in earnest to try to mediate and restore calm. &#8220;With every new confrontation, the ability of the leaders to control their people on the ground is reduced,&#8221; said Mr. Barghouti. &#8220;There are certain people who don&#8217;t want calm.&#8221; Taghreed El-Khodary contributed reporting from Gaza City. More Articles in International &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Jordan&#8217;s King Calls Off Visit to the West Bank Hamas-Fatah Gunfight Worsens Factional Strife in Gaza Clash at U.N.-Run Gaza School Kills One and Wounds 6 World Briefing | Middle East: Gaza: Demands For BBC Journalist Rejected More Articles in International &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Gonzales Pressed Ailing Ashcroft on Spy Plan, Aide Says Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/world/middleeast/15cnd-gaza.html?ex=1336881600&en=f77f23bbbf455bcd&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	At Least 7 Killed in Gaza Fighting - New York Times At Least 7 Killed in Gaza Fighting Mahmud Hams/Agence France-Presse — Getty Images A Palestinian child today in front of the bodies of slain Fatah security officers at the morgue in the Deir el-Balah hospital in the Gaza Strip. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 15, 2007 NAHAL OZ, Israel, May 15 &#151; Fighters from the military wing of , one of the two main Palestinian political factions, attacked security forces loyal to the rival Fatah faction at a location in Gaza near the border with Israel today, killing nine people, according to Fatah officials. Skip to next paragraph Mahmud Hams/Agence France-Presse — Getty Images Palestinians today carrying the body of a security force member into the morgue in the Deir el-Balah hospital in the Gaza Strip. The clashes extended an outbreak of factional violence to a third day, threatening the survival of the two-month-old &#8220;unity&#8221; government of the Palestinian Authority, the result of a power-sharing agreement between Hamas and Fatah. The attack by Hamas fighters on the Presidential Guard, which is loyal to the Palestinian president, of Fatah, seemed to be a direct challenge to his authority. Raising the stakes further, the Hamas military wing said that it had fired the Qassam rockets that hit the Israeli border town of Sderot this evening, wounding several civilians, one seriously. The Palestinian information minister, Mustafa Barghouti, warned that if the unity government collapses, the whole Palestinian Authority could go down with it. Israeli troops fired today at two armed Palestinians who were spotted close to the border fence opposite Nahal Oz, a kibbutz that abuts the Gaza Strip, killing one of the two, an army spokeswoman said. Local news reports identified the two as members of the Presidential Guard who were fleeing the Hamas attack at the Karni commercial border crossing, which is nearby. At least one other Palestinian was killed in factional violence in Gaza City today, bringing the death toll to about 20 since the clashes resumed on Sunday after three months of relative calm. Israeli tanks lined up on the Israeli side of the border this morning while fierce gun battles raged among the Palestinian forces on the other side, but the tanks had drawn back by early afternoon. In the evening, a barrage of Qassam rockets fired from Gaza struck Sderot, hitting a house and a school, army officials said. According to Israel Radio, Hamas said the rockets were meant to commemorate Nakba Day, when Palestinians mark the anniversary of what they call the &#8220;catastrophe&#8221; of the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948. During the day, the Prime Minister of Israel, , met with King Abdullah of Jordan in the port city of Aqaba. David Baker, an official in Mr. Olmert&#8217;s office, said the leaders had a &#8220;warm and productive meeting, in which they discussed ways of promoting the Israeli-Palestinian process.&#8221; Mr. Baker said the leaders also discussed ways of shoring up the position of Mr. Abbas and other relative moderates in the Palestinian Authority. But the intensity of today&#8217;s violence in Gaza raised serious doubts about the viability of the joint government, and about the future of the Palestinian Authority as a whole. One of the main purposes of the power-sharing agreement was to stop factional violence that was threatening to spiral into civil war. &#8220;If this government falls, it means the collapse of the Palestinian Authority, and with it, the end of all agreements,&#8221; said Mr. Barghouti, the government spokesman. Speaking by telephone from Ramallah, he said that President Abbas had told the Palestinian cabinet on Monday night, &#8220;This is my government, and if it falls, I will fall with it.&#8221; The attack on the Fatah-aligned forces guarding the Karni crossing was the most audacious show of force by Hamas since the violence restarted, and it ratcheted up the hostility level between the warring factions. A spokesman for Hamas&#8217;s police force, Islam Shahwan, said that today&#8217;s violence started with the killing of Ibrahim Maniah, 45, a member of the Hamas-linked Qassam Brigade militia, by members of the Fatah-linked Presidential Guard in the Gaza neighborhood of Sajaiya, near the Karni crossing. Mr. Shahwan called the killing an assasination; Fatah officials denied that, and said Mr. Maniah was killed during street clashes. Mr. Abbas&#8217;s Presidential Guard is responsible for security at the Karni crossing. A spokesman for the Presidential Guard, Wael Dahab, said that Hamas raided a security position there, firing guns and rocket-propelled grenades. Three jeeps from the pro-Fatah National Security Forces drove toward Karni to provide backup to the Presidential Guard, but one of the vehicles overturned on the road, Fatah spokesmen said. Tawfiq Abu Houssa, a Fatah security official, said that Qassam Brigade members then went up to the overturned jeep and killed the seven men inside, shooting them &#8220;in cold blood, at close range.&#8221; He said their weapons were stolen. A Hamas spokesman, Fawzi Barhoum, said that the &#8220;Fatah accusations came without any investigation.&#8221; Earlier, Hamas spokesmen said Israel was to blame for the deaths of the National Security Force members, saying they were killed by a tank shell fired from across the border that struck the jeep. But the Israeli army spokeswoman denied that any shells had been fired. The Palestinian information minister, Mr. Barghouti, a political independent, said that the day&#8217;s events were still under investigation, and that &#8220;both sides&#8221; were responsible for the violence. By the afternoon, Gaza was mostly quiet, though sporadic bursts of gunfire could be heard. Across the border in the Nahal Oz kibbutz, tractors worked to harvest a carrot crop until a Qassam rocket landed in an open field at about 3 p.m., the first rocket to be fired today, the Israeli army said. Inside Gaza the atmosphere remained tense. Most people stayed at home, stores were closed, and gunmen from Hamas or Fatah took up positions in taller buildings in Gaza City, while Egyptian officials worked in earnest to try to mediate and restore calm. &#8220;With every new confrontation, the ability of the leaders to control their people on the ground is reduced,&#8221; said Mr. Barghouti. &#8220;There are certain people who don&#8217;t want calm.&#8221; Taghreed El-Khodary contributed reporting from Gaza City. More Articles in International &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Jordan&#8217;s King Calls Off Visit to the West Bank Hamas-Fatah Gunfight Worsens Factional Strife in Gaza Clash at U.N.-Run Gaza School Kills One and Wounds 6 World Briefing | Middle East: Gaza: Demands For BBC Journalist Rejected More Articles in International &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Gonzales Pressed Ailing Ashcroft on Spy Plan, Aide Says Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/obituaries/15cnd-falwell.html	Jerry Falwell, Leading Religious Conservative, Dies at 73 - New York Times Jerry Falwell, Leading Religious Conservative, Dies at 73 Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 15, 2007 , the fundamentalist preacher who founded the Moral Majority and helped bring the language and passions of religious conservatives into American politics, died today shortly after he was found unconscious in his office at Liberty University in Lynchburg, Va. He was 73 years old. Skip to next paragraph The Rev. Jerry Falwell spoke at the SBC Pastors' Conference on June 20, 2005 in Nashville, Tenn. Mr. Falwell had a history of heart problems, and probably died of cardiac arrythmia, his physician, Dr. Carl Moore, said today. Mr. Falwell had no pulse when he was found, the doctor said, and efforts to revive him at the university and on the way to the hospital were unsuccessful. Dr. Moore said Mr. Falwell was pronounced dead at 12:40 p.m. Eastern time. The university’s executive vice president, Ronald Godwin, told a news conference this afternoon that he had had breakfast with Mr. Falwell at 8:30 a.m., and said the university mourns his loss. “Dr. Falwell is a huge, huge leader here in this area and in the nation at large," Dr. Godwin said. Mr. Falwell went from being a Baptist preacher in Lynchburg to carving out a powerful role in national electoral politics. He was at home in both the millennial world of fundamentalist Christianity and the earthly blood sport of the political arena. As much as anyone, he helped create the religious right as a political force, defined the issues that would energize it for decades and cemented its ties to the He came to prominence first as a televangelist, through his “Old-Time Gospel Hour” programs, and then as the leader of the Moral Majority, an organization whose very name drew a vivid, divisive battle line in the sand of American politics. After the organization disbanded in 1989, he remained a familiar and powerful figure, supporting when he ran for president, as he did his father George H. W. Bush before him, mobilizing conservatives and finding his way into a thicket of controversies. Mr. Falwell grew up in a household that he described as a battleground between the forces of God and the powers of Satan. In his public life he often had to walk a fine line between the certitudes of fundamentalist religion, in which the word of God was absolute and inviolate, and the ambiguities of mainstream politics, in which a message warmly received at his Thomas Road Baptist Church might not play as well on the NBC Nightly News. As a result, he was a lightning rod for controversy and caricature. He apologized, for example, after televised remarks suggesting that the 9/11 terrorist attacks reflected God’s judgment on a nation spiritually weakened by the American Civil Liberties Union and supporters of gay rights, and after he called Muhammad a terrorist. He was ridiculed for an article in his National Liberty Journal that suggested that Tinky Winky, a character in the “Teletubbies” children’s show, could be a hidden homosexual signal, because the character was purple, had a triangle on its head and carried a handbag. But behind the controversies was a shrewd, savvy operator with an original vision for affecting political and moral change. He rallied religious conservatives to the political arena at a time when most fundamentalists and other conservative religious leaders were inclined to stay away, and helped pulled off what once seemed the impossible task of uniting religious conservatives from many faiths and doctrines over what they had in common, rather than focusing on the differences that kept them apart. He had numerous failures as well as successes, and always remained a divisive figure, demonized on the left in much the way that Senator or Jane Fonda were on the right. But political experts agree he was an enormously influential figure. “Behind the idea of the Moral Majority was this notion that there could be a coalition of these different religious groups that all agree on abortion and homosexuality and other issues even if they never agreed on how to read the Bible or the nature of God,” said John Green, director of the Ray C. Bliss Institute of Applied Politics at the University of Akron, who studies the religious conservative movement. “That was a real innovation,” Mr. Green said. “And even if that’s an idea that did not completely originate with Falwell, it’s certainly an idea he developed and championed independently of others. It was a very important insight, and it’s had a huge influence on American politics.” Jerry Lamon Falwell was born Aug. 11, 1933, in Lynchburg, Va. His ancestors there dated back to 1669, and his more immediate ones lived as if they were characters in the pageant of sin and redemption that formed his world view. His paternal grandfather, Charles William Falwell, embittered by the death of his wife and a favorite nephew, was a vocal and decisive atheist who would not go to church, and who ridiculed those who did. His father, Carey H. Falwell, was a flamboyant entrepreneur who opened his first grocery store when he was 22. Soon he was operating 17 service stations, many with little restaurants and stores attached. He built oil storage tanks, owned an oil company, and in 1927 founded American Bus Lines, which installed old battery-operated movie projectors to show Charlie Chaplin and Laurel and Hardy movies to riders. More Articles in Obituaries &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. More Articles in Obituaries &#x00bb; Miracle On Ice - 1980 N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/obituaries/15cnd-falwell.html	Jerry Falwell, Leading Religious Conservative, Dies at 73 - New York Times Jerry Falwell, Leading Religious Conservative, Dies at 73 Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 15, 2007 , the fundamentalist preacher who founded the Moral Majority and helped bring the language and passions of religious conservatives into American politics, died today shortly after he was found unconscious in his office at Liberty University in Lynchburg, Va. He was 73 years old. Skip to next paragraph The Rev. Jerry Falwell spoke at the SBC Pastors' Conference on June 20, 2005 in Nashville, Tenn. Mr. Falwell had a history of heart problems, and probably died of cardiac arrythmia, his physician, Dr. Carl Moore, said today. Mr. Falwell had no pulse when he was found, the doctor said, and efforts to revive him at the university and on the way to the hospital were unsuccessful. Dr. Moore said Mr. Falwell was pronounced dead at 12:40 p.m. Eastern time. The university’s executive vice president, Ronald Godwin, told a news conference this afternoon that he had had breakfast with Mr. Falwell at 8:30 a.m., and said the university mourns his loss. “Dr. Falwell is a huge, huge leader here in this area and in the nation at large," Dr. Godwin said. Mr. Falwell went from being a Baptist preacher in Lynchburg to carving out a powerful role in national electoral politics. He was at home in both the millennial world of fundamentalist Christianity and the earthly blood sport of the political arena. As much as anyone, he helped create the religious right as a political force, defined the issues that would energize it for decades and cemented its ties to the He came to prominence first as a televangelist, through his “Old-Time Gospel Hour” programs, and then as the leader of the Moral Majority, an organization whose very name drew a vivid, divisive battle line in the sand of American politics. After the organization disbanded in 1989, he remained a familiar and powerful figure, supporting when he ran for president, as he did his father George H. W. Bush before him, mobilizing conservatives and finding his way into a thicket of controversies. Mr. Falwell grew up in a household that he described as a battleground between the forces of God and the powers of Satan. In his public life he often had to walk a fine line between the certitudes of fundamentalist religion, in which the word of God was absolute and inviolate, and the ambiguities of mainstream politics, in which a message warmly received at his Thomas Road Baptist Church might not play as well on the NBC Nightly News. As a result, he was a lightning rod for controversy and caricature. He apologized, for example, after televised remarks suggesting that the 9/11 terrorist attacks reflected God’s judgment on a nation spiritually weakened by the American Civil Liberties Union and supporters of gay rights, and after he called Muhammad a terrorist. He was ridiculed for an article in his National Liberty Journal that suggested that Tinky Winky, a character in the “Teletubbies” children’s show, could be a hidden homosexual signal, because the character was purple, had a triangle on its head and carried a handbag. But behind the controversies was a shrewd, savvy operator with an original vision for affecting political and moral change. He rallied religious conservatives to the political arena at a time when most fundamentalists and other conservative religious leaders were inclined to stay away, and helped pulled off what once seemed the impossible task of uniting religious conservatives from many faiths and doctrines over what they had in common, rather than focusing on the differences that kept them apart. He had numerous failures as well as successes, and always remained a divisive figure, demonized on the left in much the way that Senator or Jane Fonda were on the right. But political experts agree he was an enormously influential figure. “Behind the idea of the Moral Majority was this notion that there could be a coalition of these different religious groups that all agree on abortion and homosexuality and other issues even if they never agreed on how to read the Bible or the nature of God,” said John Green, director of the Ray C. Bliss Institute of Applied Politics at the University of Akron, who studies the religious conservative movement. “That was a real innovation,” Mr. Green said. “And even if that’s an idea that did not completely originate with Falwell, it’s certainly an idea he developed and championed independently of others. It was a very important insight, and it’s had a huge influence on American politics.” Jerry Lamon Falwell was born Aug. 11, 1933, in Lynchburg, Va. His ancestors there dated back to 1669, and his more immediate ones lived as if they were characters in the pageant of sin and redemption that formed his world view. His paternal grandfather, Charles William Falwell, embittered by the death of his wife and a favorite nephew, was a vocal and decisive atheist who would not go to church, and who ridiculed those who did. His father, Carey H. Falwell, was a flamboyant entrepreneur who opened his first grocery store when he was 22. Soon he was operating 17 service stations, many with little restaurants and stores attached. He built oil storage tanks, owned an oil company, and in 1927 founded American Bus Lines, which installed old battery-operated movie projectors to show Charlie Chaplin and Laurel and Hardy movies to riders. More Articles in Obituaries &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. More Articles in Obituaries &#x00bb; Miracle On Ice - 1980 N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/world/middleeast/15cnd-gaza.html	At Least 7 Killed in Gaza Fighting - New York Times At Least 7 Killed in Gaza Fighting Mahmud Hams/Agence France-Presse — Getty Images A Palestinian child today in front of the bodies of slain Fatah security officers at the morgue in the Deir el-Balah hospital in the Gaza Strip. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 15, 2007 NAHAL OZ, Israel, May 15 &#151; Fighters from the military wing of , one of the two main Palestinian political factions, attacked security forces loyal to the rival Fatah faction at a location in Gaza near the border with Israel today, killing nine people, according to Fatah officials. Skip to next paragraph Mahmud Hams/Agence France-Presse — Getty Images Palestinians today carrying the body of a security force member into the morgue in the Deir el-Balah hospital in the Gaza Strip. The clashes extended an outbreak of factional violence to a third day, threatening the survival of the two-month-old &#8220;unity&#8221; government of the Palestinian Authority, the result of a power-sharing agreement between Hamas and Fatah. The attack by Hamas fighters on the Presidential Guard, which is loyal to the Palestinian president, of Fatah, seemed to be a direct challenge to his authority. Raising the stakes further, the Hamas military wing said that it had fired the Qassam rockets that hit the Israeli border town of Sderot this evening, wounding several civilians, one seriously. The Palestinian information minister, Mustafa Barghouti, warned that if the unity government collapses, the whole Palestinian Authority could go down with it. Israeli troops fired today at two armed Palestinians who were spotted close to the border fence opposite Nahal Oz, a kibbutz that abuts the Gaza Strip, killing one of the two, an army spokeswoman said. Local news reports identified the two as members of the Presidential Guard who were fleeing the Hamas attack at the Karni commercial border crossing, which is nearby. At least one other Palestinian was killed in factional violence in Gaza City today, bringing the death toll to about 20 since the clashes resumed on Sunday after three months of relative calm. Israeli tanks lined up on the Israeli side of the border this morning while fierce gun battles raged among the Palestinian forces on the other side, but the tanks had drawn back by early afternoon. In the evening, a barrage of Qassam rockets fired from Gaza struck Sderot, hitting a house and a school, army officials said. According to Israel Radio, Hamas said the rockets were meant to commemorate Nakba Day, when Palestinians mark the anniversary of what they call the &#8220;catastrophe&#8221; of the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948. During the day, the Prime Minister of Israel, , met with King Abdullah of Jordan in the port city of Aqaba. David Baker, an official in Mr. Olmert&#8217;s office, said the leaders had a &#8220;warm and productive meeting, in which they discussed ways of promoting the Israeli-Palestinian process.&#8221; Mr. Baker said the leaders also discussed ways of shoring up the position of Mr. Abbas and other relative moderates in the Palestinian Authority. But the intensity of today&#8217;s violence in Gaza raised serious doubts about the viability of the joint government, and about the future of the Palestinian Authority as a whole. One of the main purposes of the power-sharing agreement was to stop factional violence that was threatening to spiral into civil war. &#8220;If this government falls, it means the collapse of the Palestinian Authority, and with it, the end of all agreements,&#8221; said Mr. Barghouti, the government spokesman. Speaking by telephone from Ramallah, he said that President Abbas had told the Palestinian cabinet on Monday night, &#8220;This is my government, and if it falls, I will fall with it.&#8221; The attack on the Fatah-aligned forces guarding the Karni crossing was the most audacious show of force by Hamas since the violence restarted, and it ratcheted up the hostility level between the warring factions. A spokesman for Hamas&#8217;s police force, Islam Shahwan, said that today&#8217;s violence started with the killing of Ibrahim Maniah, 45, a member of the Hamas-linked Qassam Brigade militia, by members of the Fatah-linked Presidential Guard in the Gaza neighborhood of Sajaiya, near the Karni crossing. Mr. Shahwan called the killing an assasination; Fatah officials denied that, and said Mr. Maniah was killed during street clashes. Mr. Abbas&#8217;s Presidential Guard is responsible for security at the Karni crossing. A spokesman for the Presidential Guard, Wael Dahab, said that Hamas raided a security position there, firing guns and rocket-propelled grenades. Three jeeps from the pro-Fatah National Security Forces drove toward Karni to provide backup to the Presidential Guard, but one of the vehicles overturned on the road, Fatah spokesmen said. Tawfiq Abu Houssa, a Fatah security official, said that Qassam Brigade members then went up to the overturned jeep and killed the seven men inside, shooting them &#8220;in cold blood, at close range.&#8221; He said their weapons were stolen. A Hamas spokesman, Fawzi Barhoum, said that the &#8220;Fatah accusations came without any investigation.&#8221; Earlier, Hamas spokesmen said Israel was to blame for the deaths of the National Security Force members, saying they were killed by a tank shell fired from across the border that struck the jeep. But the Israeli army spokeswoman denied that any shells had been fired. The Palestinian information minister, Mr. Barghouti, a political independent, said that the day&#8217;s events were still under investigation, and that &#8220;both sides&#8221; were responsible for the violence. By the afternoon, Gaza was mostly quiet, though sporadic bursts of gunfire could be heard. Across the border in the Nahal Oz kibbutz, tractors worked to harvest a carrot crop until a Qassam rocket landed in an open field at about 3 p.m., the first rocket to be fired today, the Israeli army said. Inside Gaza the atmosphere remained tense. Most people stayed at home, stores were closed, and gunmen from Hamas or Fatah took up positions in taller buildings in Gaza City, while Egyptian officials worked in earnest to try to mediate and restore calm. &#8220;With every new confrontation, the ability of the leaders to control their people on the ground is reduced,&#8221; said Mr. Barghouti. &#8220;There are certain people who don&#8217;t want calm.&#8221; Taghreed El-Khodary contributed reporting from Gaza City. More Articles in International &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Jordan&#8217;s King Calls Off Visit to the West Bank Hamas-Fatah Gunfight Worsens Factional Strife in Gaza Clash at U.N.-Run Gaza School Kills One and Wounds 6 World Briefing | Middle East: Gaza: Demands For BBC Journalist Rejected More Articles in International &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France More than $7 Trades. It’s Called Value & We Value You. N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/obituaries/15cnd-falwell.html?ex=1336881600&en=475295bc07f015f1&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Jerry Falwell, Leading Religious Conservative, Dies at 73 - New York Times Jerry Falwell, Leading Religious Conservative, Dies at 73 The Rev. Jerry Falwell at Thomas Road Baptist Church in Lynchburg, Va., in 1999. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 15, 2007 , the fundamentalist preacher who founded the Moral Majority and helped bring the language and passions of religious conservatives into American politics, died today shortly after he was found unconscious in his office at Liberty University in Lynchburg, Va. He was 73 years old. Skip to next paragraph Backstory: The Times’s Peter Applebome on Falwell ( Times Topics: Jerry Falwell The Rev. Jerry Falwell spoke at a pastors' conference in Nashville, Tenn., in 2005. Mr. Falwell had a history of heart problems, and probably died of cardiac arrythmia, his physician, Dr. Carl Moore, said today. Mr. Falwell had no pulse when he was found, the doctor said, and efforts to revive him at the university and on the way to the hospital were unsuccessful. Dr. Moore said Mr. Falwell was pronounced dead at 12:40 p.m. Eastern time. The university’s executive vice president, Ronald Godwin, told a news conference this afternoon that he had had breakfast with Mr. Falwell at 8:30 a.m., and said the university mourns his loss. “Dr. Falwell is a huge, huge leader here in this area and in the nation at large," Dr. Godwin said. Mr. Falwell went from being a Baptist preacher in Lynchburg to carving out a powerful role in national electoral politics. He was at home in both the millennial world of fundamentalist Christianity and the earthly blood sport of the political arena. As much as anyone, he helped create the religious right as a political force, defined the issues that would energize it for decades and cemented its ties to the He came to prominence first as a televangelist, through his “Old-Time Gospel Hour” programs, and then as the leader of the Moral Majority, an organization whose very name drew a vivid, divisive battle line in the sand of American politics. After the organization disbanded in 1989, he remained a familiar and powerful figure, supporting when he ran for president, as he did his father George H. W. Bush before him, mobilizing conservatives and finding his way into a thicket of controversies. Mr. Falwell grew up in a household that he described as a battleground between the forces of God and the powers of Satan. In his public life he often had to walk a fine line between the certitudes of fundamentalist religion, in which the word of God was absolute and inviolate, and the ambiguities of mainstream politics, in which a message warmly received at his Thomas Road Baptist Church might not play as well on the NBC Nightly News. As a result, he was a lightning rod for controversy and caricature. He apologized, for example, after televised remarks suggesting that the 9/11 terrorist attacks reflected God’s judgment on a nation spiritually weakened by the American Civil Liberties Union and supporters of gay rights, and after he called Muhammad a terrorist. He was ridiculed for an article in his National Liberty Journal that suggested that Tinky Winky, a character in the “Teletubbies” children’s show, could be a hidden homosexual signal, because the character was purple, had a triangle on its head and carried a handbag. But behind the controversies was a shrewd, savvy operator with an original vision for affecting political and moral change. He rallied religious conservatives to the political arena at a time when most fundamentalists and other conservative religious leaders were inclined to stay away, and helped pulled off what once seemed the impossible task of uniting religious conservatives from many faiths and doctrines over what they had in common, rather than focusing on the differences that kept them apart. He had numerous failures as well as successes, and always remained a divisive figure, demonized on the left in much the way that Senator or Jane Fonda were on the right. But political experts agree he was an enormously influential figure. “Behind the idea of the Moral Majority was this notion that there could be a coalition of these different religious groups that all agree on abortion and homosexuality and other issues even if they never agreed on how to read the Bible or the nature of God,” said John Green, director of the Ray C. Bliss Institute of Applied Politics at the University of Akron, who studies the religious conservative movement. “That was a real innovation,” Mr. Green said. “And even if that’s an idea that did not completely originate with Falwell, it’s certainly an idea he developed and championed independently of others. It was a very important insight, and it’s had a huge influence on American politics.” Jerry Lamon Falwell was born Aug. 11, 1933, in Lynchburg, Va. His ancestors there dated back to 1669, and his more immediate ones lived as if they were characters in the pageant of sin and redemption that formed his world view. His paternal grandfather, Charles William Falwell, embittered by the death of his wife and a favorite nephew, was a vocal and decisive atheist who would not go to church, and who ridiculed those who did. His father, Carey H. Falwell, was a flamboyant entrepreneur who opened his first grocery store when he was 22. Soon he was operating 17 service stations, many with little restaurants and stores attached. He built oil storage tanks, owned an oil company, and in 1927 founded American Bus Lines, which installed old battery-operated movie projectors to show Charlie Chaplin and Laurel and Hardy movies to riders. More Articles in Obituaries &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. More Articles in Obituaries &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Gonzales Pressed Ailing Ashcroft on Spy Plan, Aide Says Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/index.html	The New York Times - Breaking News, World News & Multimedia Tuesday, May 15, 2007 NYT Archive Since 1981 Gonzales Pressed Ailing Ashcroft on Spy Plan, Aide Says James B. Comey’s account before the Senate Judiciary Committee offered a rare and titillating glimpse of a Washington power struggle. More From The Lede Tyco Paying $3 Billion to Settle Shareholder Suits The settlement, described as the largest payment in such a suit, seeks to put to rest a case that became synonymous with corporate excess. ‘Spring Awakening’ Gets 11 Tony Nominations In a season rich with contenders, “Spring Awakening,” a dark rock musical, led the field of Tony nominations. Times Topics: Tony Awards Go to Complete Coverage » Rev. Jerry Falwell Is Dead at 73 The fundamentalist preacher helped bring the language and passions of religious conservatives into U.S. politics. Backstory: The Times&#146;s Peter Applebome on Falwell ( Military Gives Details of Iraq Ambush of 7 G.I.s The soldiers involved in the weekend ambush were from the 10th Mountain Division, based in upstate New York. Pentagon General to Be Iraq War Czar Go to Complete Coverage » In Study, College-Prep Classes Left Many Unready Bombing Kills at Least 22 in Pakistan At Least 7 Killed in Gaza Fighting Thomson and Reuters Agree on Merger The Caucus: Clues to Tonight’s G.O.P. Debate The Lede: Shock Jocks Suspended The Lede: Unseating the Border Patrol Chief The Empire Zone: Giuliani and 9/11 DealBook: ‘Private Equity Can Go Anyplace’ Talk to the Newsroom » The Times’s Matthew Purdy answers reader questions. Is Amputee Sprinter Too-Abled? Should athletes with prosthetics compete with able-bodied athletes? Rev. Jerry Falwell , Moral Majority Founder, Dies at 73 Iran Nuclear Progress 'Slow but Steady' `Idol' Tops Prime - Time Nielsen Rankings GOP Candidates Prepare for Second Debate A film critic and his family in the myth-making machine of Hollywood. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans American fans head to England to watch their favorite team in a gleaming new facility. Herbert: Paid Sick Days What Gets Left Behind When they move, New Yorkers “forget” to pack all sorts of things, from television sets and air-conditioners to drugs and handcuffs. More in Real Estate Mortgage News and Rates DISCOVER THE WILLIAMSBURG WATERFRONT ... See All Featured Properties Place a Classified Ad » In the Desert, an Oasis for Drag Racing Gearheads gather near Dubai to test their mettle at a complex for quarter-mile drag racing. Submit photos and comment on other readers' cars. Also, keep track of events Go to Photo Gallery Place a Classified Ad » Post a job online More in Job Market Browse jobs by industry Browse jobs by location Consultants and résumé writers might improve the odds of landing a high-paying job. Place a Classified Ad » Find a Classifieds listing Home & Garden Directory Small Inns & Lodges Post a classifieds ad online GOLDBERG HOLDINGS SEEKS CAPITAL FOR FORECLOSURE ACQUISITIONS IN VEGAS Goldberg Holdings is......... Place a Classified Ad » SAVE 50% ON HOME DELIVERY Have The New York Times waiting for you, for as little as $3.15 a week. N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker Be Prepared. Fight ID Theft. Equifax Credit Watch™. Equifax.com Photos, fine art, books and more. Earn 5.05% APY - Open a Complete Savings Acct from E*TRADE Bank Arabian capital of culture and strategic hub forges ahead Inspectors Cite Big Gain by Iran on Nuclear Fuel Turkish City Counters Fear of Islam’s Reach Bank’s Report Says Wolfowitz Violated Ethics Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Bush Calls for Work for Higher Fuel Efficiency U. of Texas Fires Officer Over Tie to Loan Company Pentagon General to Be Iraq War Czar Gonzales’s Deputy Quits Justice Department Bush Calls for Work for Higher Fuel Efficiency N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; The Freshman: Barely in Office, but G.O.P. Rivals Are Circling Lawyers Argue Legal Status of Gay Unions After Ordnance Scare, Beachgoers Told to Dig With Care A Giant Takes On Physics’ Biggest Questions Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Scientists Back Off Theory of a Colder Europe in a Warming World Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession The Consumer: As Demand for Donor Eggs Soars, High Prices Stir Ethical Concerns Oklahoma Chides Insurer in Medicare Marketing Case U. of Texas Fires Officer Over Tie to Loan Company Prestigious Private Schools Settle Rights Suit by a Non-Hawaiian 2 Suspended for School Prank That Scared Pupils in Tennessee What Gets Left Behind Streetscapes | Readers’ Questions: How the West Side Was Won National Perspectives: Reviving a No Man’s Land Along the Tennessee River News Analysis: In Deal, a Test for the U.A.W. Cerberus Goes Where No Firm Has Gone Before A Corporate Divorce on the Cheap New Motorola Phones Aim at High-End Market States Fault MySpace on Predator Issues On the Web, an Advanced Carbon Calculator for Personal Use Posada Is One Yankee That Can’t Be Replaced Oracle Rebounds in Challenger Series An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Family Travel | Shanghai for Kids: Amid Wheeler-Dealers, an Urban Playground Family Travel | In the Footsteps of Linnaeus: A Vast Garden of Knowledge, Still Blooming Today The Cape Town Area’s Endless Possibilities Dining & Wine &#x00bb; Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country Vital Signs: Nutrition: A Cardiovascular Argument for Eating Whole Grains The Way We Live Now: Ocean Blues Home & Garden &#x00bb; Aspiring to the Throne At Home With Charlie White: Order and Chaos in a Single Heartbeat In the Garden: It Takes a Hammer to Grow This Salad Fashion & Style &#x00bb; Clearly, Frankly, Unabashedly Disabled Girth and Nudity, a Pictorial Mission Modern Love: My First Lesson in Motherhood A Corporate Divorce on the Cheap News Analysis: In Deal, a Test for the U.A.W. A Chief With Union Roots Enters a Proving Ground Editorial: In Divided New Orleans Op-Ed Contributor: Friend or Faux? How to Define Progress in Iraq (6 Letters) ‘Spring Awakening’ Gets 11 Tony Nominations For ABC, Dramas Fill Out the Lineup Theater Review | 'Passing Strange': Look Back in Chagrin: A Rocker’s Progress Critic’s Choice: New DVDs Film: Moyduh, He Watched: Commissioner Turns Critic Film: No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. 11 Tony Nods for ‘Spring Awakening’ Broadway’s Year of Tepid Hits Theater Review | 'Passing Strange': Look Back in Chagrin: A Rocker’s Progress 'The Pesthouse,' by Jim Crace: The Pesthouse 'Bad Luck and Trouble,' by Lee Child: He’s Taut of Style and Light of Foot Who Killed Kennedy? One Man’s Answer Week in Review &#x00bb; Speed Bump: When the Wheels Come Off a Sport The Nation: Genetic Testing + Abortion = ??? The World: See You in September, Whatever That Means The Flight From Iraq Writing in the Dark Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Gonzales Pressed Ailing Ashcroft on Spy Plan, Aide Says Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France About the NYT Co. Jobs at the NYT Co. Add New York Times headlines to your site Add New York Times RSS Feeds Get home delivery of The New York Times, as little as $3.15 a week. The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/education/15cnd-report.html?ex=1336881600&en=ded85eacc0ef9515&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	In Study, College-Prep Classes Left Many Unready - New York Times In Study, College-Prep Classes Left Many Unready Published: May 15, 2007 Only one-quarter of high school students who take a full set of college-preparatory courses — four years of English and three each of mathematics, science and social studies — are well prepared for college, according to a new study of last year’s high school graduates released today by ACT, the Iowa testing organization. Skip to next paragraph Rigor at Risk: Reaffirming Quality in the High School Core Curriculum Executive Summary of Report The report analyzed approximately 1.2 million students who took the ACT college admissions test and graduated from high school last June. The study predicted whether the students had a good chance of scoring C or better in introductory college courses, based on their test scores and the success rates of past test takers. The study concluded that only 26 percent were ready for college-level work in all four core areas, while 19 percent were not adequately prepared in any of them. “It has become increasingly apparent that, while taking the right number of courses is certainly better than not, it is no longer enough,” the report said. Cynthia B. Schmeiser, president and chief operating officer of ACT’s education division, said she was stunned by the low level of accomplishment for students who had taken the core curriculum, which was recommended 24 years ago in “A Nation at Risk,” a United States Department of Education commission report that prompted widespread efforts to improve American education. “What’s shocking about this, is that since ‘A Nation at Risk,’ we have been encouraging students to take this core curriculum with the unspoken promise that when they do, they will be college-ready,” she said. “What we have found, now, is that when they do, only one in four is ready for college-level work.” ACT reported that 54 percent of last year’s graduates who took the ACT exam said they had taken at least a core curriculum. Those who had not taken this minimum curriculum fared even worse: only 14 percent were judged ready for college work in all four subject areas, while 36 percent were not prepared in any. The report released today, entitled “Rigor at Risk: Reaffirming Quality in the High School Core Curriculum,” is a sign of growing attention to secondary education, after decades of emphasis on elementary and middle schools, and to what students are really learning in high school. In 1999, Clifford Adelman, then a researcher at the federal Department of Education, found that the strength of high school work was the most important factor in determining college success, even more than the socioeconomic status of a student’s family. The new report, which cites Mr. Adelman’s research, makes the case that many high school courses are not providing the necessary quality that he described. “Course titles don’t matter nearly as much as what is taught and how it is taught,” said Michael Cohen, president of Achieve, a Washington-based organization that works with states on academic standards. “There is tremendous variation in what is taught in a course called biology or algebra 2.” Kati Haycock, director of the Education Trust, another Washington-based group that advocates standard-setting, said that as she traveled around the country, she found many schools not offering challenging work. “When you look at the assignments these kids get, it is just appalling,” she said. “A course may be labeled college-preparatory English. But if the kids get more than three-paragraph-long assignments, it is unusual. Or they’ll be asked to color a poster. We say ‘How about doing analysis?’ and they look at us like we are demented.” Other researchers have also found problems with the rigor of high school education. A study released last year by the National Center for Educational Accountability in Austin, Tex., for example, found that the majority of low-income students who received credit for a college-preparatory curriculum in Texas needed remedial help when they got to college Chrys Dougherty, the center’s research director, said the ACT report showed that the problem found in Texas was widespread, and that “many high school students are not learning the content implied by the titles of the courses in which they are enrolled.” ACT officials and other education analysts said that while educators must continue to improve what students learn in elementary and middle schools, so they will be ready to tackle more rigorous high school work, states must also begin to specify course standards and increase the capability of teachers in high school. The ACT report also found that students who took more courses than the minimum core curriculum performed better on their exams, and had a greater chance of doing well in college. But even then, college readiness was not assured. The report said that more advanced coursework was necessary to be well prepared after graduation, and that a rigorous set of core courses should achieve that. Next Article in Education (1 of 5) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Next Article in Education (1 of 5) &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Gonzales Pressed Ailing Ashcroft on Spy Plan, Aide Says Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France More than $7 Trades. It’s Called Value & We Value You. N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/education/15cnd-report.html	In Study, College-Prep Classes Left Many Unready - New York Times In Study, College-Prep Classes Left Many Unready Published: May 15, 2007 Only one-quarter of high school students who take a full set of college-preparatory courses — four years of English and three each of mathematics, science and social studies — are well prepared for college, according to a new study of last year’s high school graduates released today by ACT, the Iowa testing organization. Skip to next paragraph Rigor at Risk: Reaffirming Quality in the High School Core Curriculum Executive Summary of Report The report analyzed approximately 1.2 million students who took the ACT college admissions test and graduated from high school last June. The study predicted whether the students had a good chance of scoring C or better in introductory college courses, based on their test scores and the success rates of past test takers. The study concluded that only 26 percent were ready for college-level work in all four core areas, while 19 percent were not adequately prepared in any of them. “It has become increasingly apparent that, while taking the right number of courses is certainly better than not, it is no longer enough,” the report said. Cynthia B. Schmeiser, president and chief operating officer of ACT’s education division, said she was stunned by the low level of accomplishment for students who had taken the core curriculum, which was recommended 24 years ago in “A Nation at Risk,” a United States Department of Education commission report that prompted widespread efforts to improve American education. “What’s shocking about this, is that since ‘A Nation at Risk,’ we have been encouraging students to take this core curriculum with the unspoken promise that when they do, they will be college-ready,” she said. “What we have found, now, is that when they do, only one in four is ready for college-level work.” ACT reported that 54 percent of last year’s graduates who took the ACT exam said they had taken at least a core curriculum. Those who had not taken this minimum curriculum fared even worse: only 14 percent were judged ready for college work in all four subject areas, while 36 percent were not prepared in any. The report released today, entitled “Rigor at Risk: Reaffirming Quality in the High School Core Curriculum,” is a sign of growing attention to secondary education, after decades of emphasis on elementary and middle schools, and to what students are really learning in high school. In 1999, Clifford Adelman, then a researcher at the federal Department of Education, found that the strength of high school work was the most important factor in determining college success, even more than the socioeconomic status of a student’s family. The new report, which cites Mr. Adelman’s research, makes the case that many high school courses are not providing the necessary quality that he described. “Course titles don’t matter nearly as much as what is taught and how it is taught,” said Michael Cohen, president of Achieve, a Washington-based organization that works with states on academic standards. “There is tremendous variation in what is taught in a course called biology or algebra 2.” Kati Haycock, director of the Education Trust, another Washington-based group that advocates standard-setting, said that as she traveled around the country, she found many schools not offering challenging work. “When you look at the assignments these kids get, it is just appalling,” she said. “A course may be labeled college-preparatory English. But if the kids get more than three-paragraph-long assignments, it is unusual. Or they’ll be asked to color a poster. We say ‘How about doing analysis?’ and they look at us like we are demented.” Other researchers have also found problems with the rigor of high school education. A study released last year by the National Center for Educational Accountability in Austin, Tex., for example, found that the majority of low-income students who received credit for a college-preparatory curriculum in Texas needed remedial help when they got to college Chrys Dougherty, the center’s research director, said the ACT report showed that the problem found in Texas was widespread, and that “many high school students are not learning the content implied by the titles of the courses in which they are enrolled.” ACT officials and other education analysts said that while educators must continue to improve what students learn in elementary and middle schools, so they will be ready to tackle more rigorous high school work, states must also begin to specify course standards and increase the capability of teachers in high school. The ACT report also found that students who took more courses than the minimum core curriculum performed better on their exams, and had a greater chance of doing well in college. But even then, college readiness was not assured. The report said that more advanced coursework was necessary to be well prepared after graduation, and that a rigorous set of core courses should achieve that. Next Article in Education (1 of 5) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Next Article in Education (1 of 5) &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France More than $7 Trades. It’s Called Value & We Value You. Fifth Avenue From St. Regis, circa 1904 N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/world/asia/15cnd-pakista.html	Bombing Kills at Least 22 in Pakistan - New York Times Bombing Kills at Least 22 in Pakistan Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 15, 2007 PESHAWAR, May 15 — Twenty-two people were killed and 30 wounded here today when a suicide bomber struck a crowded restaurant in a busy part of the old city, police and hospital officials said. The bomb exploded at about 12:55 p.m. at the Marhaba Restaurant, which is on the ground floor of a four-story building opposite the historic Mohabat Khan mosque. The powerful explosion seriously damaged the hotel and caused damage to nearby shops and buildings. All that was left of the restaurant were shattered window panes and twisted fans hanging from the ceiling. It was not clear why the bomber targeted the restaurant, which is frequented by local residents who work in a nearby jewelry market and at the city’s biggest teaching hospital. But witnesses and police said the restaurant was owned by an Uzbek of Afghan origin who was affiliated with former Uzbek warlord Abdur Rashid Dostum. Posters of Mr. Dostrum adorned the walls of the restaurant. The owner of the restaurant, his brother and his son died in the explosion. “It definitely was a suicide bombing,” chief investigator, Fayaz Toru, told Dawn, an English-language newspaper in Karachi. He added that the initial investigation indicated the incident fit the pattern of similar suicide bombings in the area. News services reported that the provincial police chief, Sharif Virk, said he had recovered a suicide note written in an Afghan variant of Persian called Dari, as well as in Pashto, warning that those who spied for the United States face a similar fate. But Mr. Virk and other police investigators distanced themselves from those reports. Qazi Jamilur Rehman, head of the investigating team, denied that a suicide note had been recovered. “We are yet to reach any conclusion, but this can be said, that it was in reaction to the prevalent geo-political scenario in the region,” Mr. Virk told Dawn. Investigators and security officiald also denied news service reports that the suicide bombing may have been linked to the arrest of a close relative of Mullah Dadullah days before Mr. Dadullah was killed in the southwestern Helmand province in Afghanistan. Mr. Dadullah, probably the ’s foremost operational commander, was killed in a joint operation by Afghan security forces, American forces and Law Minister Malik Zafar Azam said the explosion could have been related to other bombings in the tribal regions and the presence of U.S. troops in Body parts could be seen scattered at the scene of today’s attack, and most of the bodies were charred. Victims were rushed to the nearby Lady Reading Hospital, about 200 meters from the spot, and the government declared an emergency. Two women and a child were among those killed. Mr. Toru said that the police found nuts and bolts, often used in suicide explosions, at the scene. “I was in the kitchen when I heard a big explosion and fell unconscious,” said Muslim Shah, a cook at the restaurant, who was injured. Chief Minister Akram Khan Durrani condemned the incident and announced that the families of those killed an injured would receive financial compensation. The explosion was the second recent suicide bombing in the area. On April 28, 32 people were killed when a suicide bomber struck a rally during an address by Interior Minister Aftab Ahmad Khan Sherpao in his town of Charsadda, northeast of Peshawar. On January 27, 15 people were killed, among them senior police officers, when a suicide bomber blew himself up in the heart of Peshawar City. More Articles in International &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. More Articles in International &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France More than $7 Trades. It’s Called Value & We Value You. N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/world/asia/15cnd-pakista.html?ex=1336881600&en=29f7eb8bbf44d27c&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Bombing Kills at Least 22 in Pakistan - New York Times Bombing Kills at Least 22 in Pakistan Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 15, 2007 PESHAWAR, May 15 — Twenty-two people were killed and 30 wounded here today when a suicide bomber struck a crowded restaurant in a busy part of the old city, police and hospital officials said. The bomb exploded at about 12:55 p.m. at the Marhaba Restaurant, which is on the ground floor of a four-story building opposite the historic Mohabat Khan mosque. The powerful explosion seriously damaged the hotel and caused damage to nearby shops and buildings. All that was left of the restaurant were shattered window panes and twisted fans hanging from the ceiling. It was not clear why the bomber targeted the restaurant, which is frequented by local residents who work in a nearby jewelry market and at the city’s biggest teaching hospital. But witnesses and police said the restaurant was owned by an Uzbek of Afghan origin who was affiliated with former Uzbek warlord Abdur Rashid Dostum. Posters of Mr. Dostrum adorned the walls of the restaurant. The owner of the restaurant, his brother and his son died in the explosion. “It definitely was a suicide bombing,” chief investigator, Fayaz Toru, told Dawn, an English-language newspaper in Karachi. He added that the initial investigation indicated the incident fit the pattern of similar suicide bombings in the area. News services reported that the provincial police chief, Sharif Virk, said he had recovered a suicide note written in an Afghan variant of Persian called Dari, as well as in Pashto, warning that those who spied for the United States face a similar fate. But Mr. Virk and other police investigators distanced themselves from those reports. Qazi Jamilur Rehman, head of the investigating team, denied that a suicide note had been recovered. “We are yet to reach any conclusion, but this can be said, that it was in reaction to the prevalent geo-political scenario in the region,” Mr. Virk told Dawn. Investigators and security officiald also denied news service reports that the suicide bombing may have been linked to the arrest of a close relative of Mullah Dadullah days before Mr. Dadullah was killed in the southwestern Helmand province in Afghanistan. Mr. Dadullah, probably the ’s foremost operational commander, was killed in a joint operation by Afghan security forces, American forces and Law Minister Malik Zafar Azam said the explosion could have been related to other bombings in the tribal regions and the presence of U.S. troops in Body parts could be seen scattered at the scene of today’s attack, and most of the bodies were charred. Victims were rushed to the nearby Lady Reading Hospital, about 200 meters from the spot, and the government declared an emergency. Two women and a child were among those killed. Mr. Toru said that the police found nuts and bolts, often used in suicide explosions, at the scene. “I was in the kitchen when I heard a big explosion and fell unconscious,” said Muslim Shah, a cook at the restaurant, who was injured. Chief Minister Akram Khan Durrani condemned the incident and announced that the families of those killed an injured would receive financial compensation. The explosion was the second recent suicide bombing in the area. On April 28, 32 people were killed when a suicide bomber struck a rally during an address by Interior Minister Aftab Ahmad Khan Sherpao in his town of Charsadda, northeast of Peshawar. On January 27, 15 people were killed, among them senior police officers, when a suicide bomber blew himself up in the heart of Peshawar City. More Articles in International &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. More Articles in International &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Gonzales Pressed Ailing Ashcroft on Spy Plan, Aide Says Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France More than $7 Trades. It’s Called Value & We Value You. N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/index.html?partner=rssnyt	The New York Times - Breaking News, World News & Multimedia Tuesday, May 15, 2007 NYT Archive Since 1981 Gonzales Pressed Ailing Ashcroft on Spy Plan, Aide Says James B. Comey’s account before the Senate Judiciary Committee offered a rare and titillating glimpse of a Washington power struggle. More From The Lede Tyco Paying $3 Billion to Settle Shareholder Suits The settlement, described as the largest payment in such a suit, seeks to put to rest a case that became synonymous with corporate excess. ‘Spring Awakening’ Gets 11 Tony Nominations In a season rich with contenders, “Spring Awakening,” a dark rock musical, led the field of Tony nominations. Times Topics: Tony Awards Go to Complete Coverage » Rev. Jerry Falwell Is Dead at 73 The fundamentalist preacher helped bring the language and passions of religious conservatives into U.S. politics. Backstory: The Times&#146;s Peter Applebome on Falwell ( Military Gives Details of Iraq Ambush of 7 G.I.s The soldiers involved in the weekend ambush were from the 10th Mountain Division, based in upstate New York. Pentagon General to Be Iraq War Czar Go to Complete Coverage » In Study, College-Prep Classes Left Many Unready Bombing Kills at Least 22 in Pakistan At Least 7 Killed in Gaza Fighting Thomson and Reuters Agree on Merger The Caucus: Clues to Tonight’s G.O.P. Debate The Lede: Shock Jocks Suspended The Lede: Unseating the Border Patrol Chief The Empire Zone: Giuliani and 9/11 DealBook: ‘Private Equity Can Go Anyplace’ Talk to the Newsroom » The Times’s Matthew Purdy answers reader questions. Is Amputee Sprinter Too-Abled? Should athletes with prosthetics compete with able-bodied athletes? Rev. Jerry Falwell , Moral Majority Founder, Dies at 73 Iran Nuclear Progress 'Slow but Steady' `Idol' Tops Prime - Time Nielsen Rankings GOP Candidates Prepare for Second Debate A film critic and his family in the myth-making machine of Hollywood. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans American fans head to England to watch their favorite team in a gleaming new facility. Herbert: Paid Sick Days What Gets Left Behind When they move, New Yorkers “forget” to pack all sorts of things, from television sets and air-conditioners to drugs and handcuffs. More in Real Estate Mortgage News and Rates EXHALE...YOU'RE IN RIVERDALE! ... See All Featured Properties Place a Classified Ad » In the Desert, an Oasis for Drag Racing Gearheads gather near Dubai to test their mettle at a complex for quarter-mile drag racing. Submit photos and comment on other readers' cars. Also, keep track of events Go to Photo Gallery Place a Classified Ad » Post a job online More in Job Market Browse jobs by industry Browse jobs by location Consultants and résumé writers might improve the odds of landing a high-paying job. Place a Classified Ad » Find a Classifieds listing Home & Garden Directory Small Inns & Lodges Post a classifieds ad online Successful high-end design firm of museum quality collectibles seeks capital of $1.5mm to ......... Place a Classified Ad » SAVE 50% ON HOME DELIVERY Have The New York Times waiting for you, for as little as $3.15 a week. N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker Arabian capital of culture and strategic hub forges ahead Be Prepared. Fight ID Theft. Equifax Credit Watch™. Equifax.com Earn 5.05% APY - Open a Complete Savings Acct from E*TRADE Bank Photos, fine art, books and more. Inspectors Cite Big Gain by Iran on Nuclear Fuel Turkish City Counters Fear of Islam’s Reach Bank’s Report Says Wolfowitz Violated Ethics Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Bush Calls for Work for Higher Fuel Efficiency U. of Texas Fires Officer Over Tie to Loan Company Pentagon General to Be Iraq War Czar Gonzales’s Deputy Quits Justice Department Bush Calls for Work for Higher Fuel Efficiency N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; The Freshman: Barely in Office, but G.O.P. Rivals Are Circling Lawyers Argue Legal Status of Gay Unions After Ordnance Scare, Beachgoers Told to Dig With Care A Giant Takes On Physics’ Biggest Questions Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Scientists Back Off Theory of a Colder Europe in a Warming World Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession The Consumer: As Demand for Donor Eggs Soars, High Prices Stir Ethical Concerns Oklahoma Chides Insurer in Medicare Marketing Case U. of Texas Fires Officer Over Tie to Loan Company Prestigious Private Schools Settle Rights Suit by a Non-Hawaiian 2 Suspended for School Prank That Scared Pupils in Tennessee What Gets Left Behind Streetscapes | Readers’ Questions: How the West Side Was Won National Perspectives: Reviving a No Man’s Land Along the Tennessee River News Analysis: In Deal, a Test for the U.A.W. Cerberus Goes Where No Firm Has Gone Before A Corporate Divorce on the Cheap New Motorola Phones Aim at High-End Market States Fault MySpace on Predator Issues On the Web, an Advanced Carbon Calculator for Personal Use Posada Is One Yankee That Can’t Be Replaced Oracle Rebounds in Challenger Series An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Family Travel | Shanghai for Kids: Amid Wheeler-Dealers, an Urban Playground Family Travel | In the Footsteps of Linnaeus: A Vast Garden of Knowledge, Still Blooming Today The Cape Town Area’s Endless Possibilities Dining & Wine &#x00bb; Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country Vital Signs: Nutrition: A Cardiovascular Argument for Eating Whole Grains The Way We Live Now: Ocean Blues Home & Garden &#x00bb; Aspiring to the Throne At Home With Charlie White: Order and Chaos in a Single Heartbeat In the Garden: It Takes a Hammer to Grow This Salad Fashion & Style &#x00bb; Clearly, Frankly, Unabashedly Disabled Girth and Nudity, a Pictorial Mission Modern Love: My First Lesson in Motherhood A Corporate Divorce on the Cheap News Analysis: In Deal, a Test for the U.A.W. A Chief With Union Roots Enters a Proving Ground Editorial: In Divided New Orleans Op-Ed Contributor: Friend or Faux? How to Define Progress in Iraq (6 Letters) ‘Spring Awakening’ Gets 11 Tony Nominations For ABC, Dramas Fill Out the Lineup Theater Review | 'Passing Strange': Look Back in Chagrin: A Rocker’s Progress Critic’s Choice: New DVDs Film: Moyduh, He Watched: Commissioner Turns Critic Film: No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. 11 Tony Nods for ‘Spring Awakening’ Broadway’s Year of Tepid Hits Theater Review | 'Passing Strange': Look Back in Chagrin: A Rocker’s Progress 'The Pesthouse,' by Jim Crace: The Pesthouse 'Bad Luck and Trouble,' by Lee Child: He’s Taut of Style and Light of Foot Who Killed Kennedy? One Man’s Answer Week in Review &#x00bb; Speed Bump: When the Wheels Come Off a Sport The Nation: Genetic Testing + Abortion = ??? The World: See You in September, Whatever That Means The Flight From Iraq Writing in the Dark Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Gonzales Pressed Ailing Ashcroft on Spy Plan, Aide Says Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France About the NYT Co. Jobs at the NYT Co. Add New York Times headlines to your site Add New York Times RSS Feeds Get home delivery of The New York Times, as little as $3.15 a week. The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/world/middleeast/15cnd-gaza.html?ex=1336881600&en=f77f23bbbf455bcd&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	At Least 7 Killed in Gaza Fighting - New York Times At Least 7 Killed in Gaza Fighting Mahmud Hams/Agence France-Presse — Getty Images A Palestinian child today in front of the bodies of slain Fatah security officers at the morgue in the Deir el-Balah hospital in the Gaza Strip. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 15, 2007 NAHAL OZ, Israel, May 15 &#151; Fighters from the military wing of , one of the two main Palestinian political factions, attacked security forces loyal to the rival Fatah faction at a location in Gaza near the border with Israel today, killing nine people, according to Fatah officials. Skip to next paragraph Mahmud Hams/Agence France-Presse — Getty Images Palestinians today carrying the body of a security force member into the morgue in the Deir el-Balah hospital in the Gaza Strip. The clashes extended an outbreak of factional violence to a third day, threatening the survival of the two-month-old &#8220;unity&#8221; government of the Palestinian Authority, the result of a power-sharing agreement between Hamas and Fatah. The attack by Hamas fighters on the Presidential Guard, which is loyal to the Palestinian president, of Fatah, seemed to be a direct challenge to his authority. Raising the stakes further, the Hamas military wing said that it had fired the Qassam rockets that hit the Israeli border town of Sderot this evening, wounding several civilians, one seriously. The Palestinian information minister, Mustafa Barghouti, warned that if the unity government collapses, the whole Palestinian Authority could go down with it. Israeli troops fired today at two armed Palestinians who were spotted close to the border fence opposite Nahal Oz, a kibbutz that abuts the Gaza Strip, killing one of the two, an army spokeswoman said. Local news reports identified the two as members of the Presidential Guard who were fleeing the Hamas attack at the Karni commercial border crossing, which is nearby. At least one other Palestinian was killed in factional violence in Gaza City today, bringing the death toll to about 20 since the clashes resumed on Sunday after three months of relative calm. Israeli tanks lined up on the Israeli side of the border this morning while fierce gun battles raged among the Palestinian forces on the other side, but the tanks had drawn back by early afternoon. In the evening, a barrage of Qassam rockets fired from Gaza struck Sderot, hitting a house and a school, army officials said. According to Israel Radio, Hamas said the rockets were meant to commemorate Nakba Day, when Palestinians mark the anniversary of what they call the &#8220;catastrophe&#8221; of the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948. During the day, the Prime Minister of Israel, , met with King Abdullah of Jordan in the port city of Aqaba. David Baker, an official in Mr. Olmert&#8217;s office, said the leaders had a &#8220;warm and productive meeting, in which they discussed ways of promoting the Israeli-Palestinian process.&#8221; Mr. Baker said the leaders also discussed ways of shoring up the position of Mr. Abbas and other relative moderates in the Palestinian Authority. But the intensity of today&#8217;s violence in Gaza raised serious doubts about the viability of the joint government, and about the future of the Palestinian Authority as a whole. One of the main purposes of the power-sharing agreement was to stop factional violence that was threatening to spiral into civil war. &#8220;If this government falls, it means the collapse of the Palestinian Authority, and with it, the end of all agreements,&#8221; said Mr. Barghouti, the government spokesman. Speaking by telephone from Ramallah, he said that President Abbas had told the Palestinian cabinet on Monday night, &#8220;This is my government, and if it falls, I will fall with it.&#8221; The attack on the Fatah-aligned forces guarding the Karni crossing was the most audacious show of force by Hamas since the violence restarted, and it ratcheted up the hostility level between the warring factions. A spokesman for Hamas&#8217;s police force, Islam Shahwan, said that today&#8217;s violence started with the killing of Ibrahim Maniah, 45, a member of the Hamas-linked Qassam Brigade militia, by members of the Fatah-linked Presidential Guard in the Gaza neighborhood of Sajaiya, near the Karni crossing. Mr. Shahwan called the killing an assasination; Fatah officials denied that, and said Mr. Maniah was killed during street clashes. Mr. Abbas&#8217;s Presidential Guard is responsible for security at the Karni crossing. A spokesman for the Presidential Guard, Wael Dahab, said that Hamas raided a security position there, firing guns and rocket-propelled grenades. Three jeeps from the pro-Fatah National Security Forces drove toward Karni to provide backup to the Presidential Guard, but one of the vehicles overturned on the road, Fatah spokesmen said. Tawfiq Abu Houssa, a Fatah security official, said that Qassam Brigade members then went up to the overturned jeep and killed the seven men inside, shooting them &#8220;in cold blood, at close range.&#8221; He said their weapons were stolen. A Hamas spokesman, Fawzi Barhoum, said that the &#8220;Fatah accusations came without any investigation.&#8221; Earlier, Hamas spokesmen said Israel was to blame for the deaths of the National Security Force members, saying they were killed by a tank shell fired from across the border that struck the jeep. But the Israeli army spokeswoman denied that any shells had been fired. The Palestinian information minister, Mr. Barghouti, a political independent, said that the day&#8217;s events were still under investigation, and that &#8220;both sides&#8221; were responsible for the violence. By the afternoon, Gaza was mostly quiet, though sporadic bursts of gunfire could be heard. Across the border in the Nahal Oz kibbutz, tractors worked to harvest a carrot crop until a Qassam rocket landed in an open field at about 3 p.m., the first rocket to be fired today, the Israeli army said. Inside Gaza the atmosphere remained tense. Most people stayed at home, stores were closed, and gunmen from Hamas or Fatah took up positions in taller buildings in Gaza City, while Egyptian officials worked in earnest to try to mediate and restore calm. &#8220;With every new confrontation, the ability of the leaders to control their people on the ground is reduced,&#8221; said Mr. Barghouti. &#8220;There are certain people who don&#8217;t want calm.&#8221; Taghreed El-Khodary contributed reporting from Gaza City. More Articles in International &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Jordan&#8217;s King Calls Off Visit to the West Bank Hamas-Fatah Gunfight Worsens Factional Strife in Gaza Clash at U.N.-Run Gaza School Kills One and Wounds 6 World Briefing | Middle East: Gaza: Demands For BBC Journalist Rejected More Articles in International &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Gonzales Pressed Ailing Ashcroft on Spy Plan, Aide Says Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France More than $7 Trades. It’s Called Value & We Value You. N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/obituaries/15cnd-falwell.html	Jerry Falwell, Leading Religious Conservative, Dies at 73 - New York Times Jerry Falwell, Leading Religious Conservative, Dies at 73 The Rev. Jerry Falwell at Thomas Road Baptist Church in Lynchburg, Va., in 1999. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 15, 2007 , the fundamentalist preacher who founded the Moral Majority and helped bring the language and passions of religious conservatives into American politics, died today shortly after he was found unconscious in his office at Liberty University in Lynchburg, Va. He was 73 years old. Skip to next paragraph Backstory: The Times’s Peter Applebome on Falwell ( Times Topics: Jerry Falwell The Rev. Jerry Falwell spoke at a pastors' conference in Nashville, Tenn., in 2005. Mr. Falwell had a history of heart problems, and probably died of cardiac arrythmia, his physician, Dr. Carl Moore, said today. Mr. Falwell had no pulse when he was found, the doctor said, and efforts to revive him at the university and on the way to the hospital were unsuccessful. Dr. Moore said Mr. Falwell was pronounced dead at 12:40 p.m. Eastern time. The university’s executive vice president, Ronald Godwin, told a news conference this afternoon that he had had breakfast with Mr. Falwell at 8:30 a.m., and said the university mourns his loss. “Dr. Falwell is a huge, huge leader here in this area and in the nation at large," Dr. Godwin said. Mr. Falwell went from being a Baptist preacher in Lynchburg to carving out a powerful role in national electoral politics. He was at home in both the millennial world of fundamentalist Christianity and the earthly blood sport of the political arena. As much as anyone, he helped create the religious right as a political force, defined the issues that would energize it for decades and cemented its ties to the He came to prominence first as a televangelist, through his “Old-Time Gospel Hour” programs, and then as the leader of the Moral Majority, an organization whose very name drew a vivid, divisive battle line in the sand of American politics. After the organization disbanded in 1989, he remained a familiar and powerful figure, supporting when he ran for president, as he did his father George H. W. Bush before him, mobilizing conservatives and finding his way into a thicket of controversies. Mr. Falwell grew up in a household that he described as a battleground between the forces of God and the powers of Satan. In his public life he often had to walk a fine line between the certitudes of fundamentalist religion, in which the word of God was absolute and inviolate, and the ambiguities of mainstream politics, in which a message warmly received at his Thomas Road Baptist Church might not play as well on the NBC Nightly News. As a result, he was a lightning rod for controversy and caricature. He apologized, for example, after televised remarks suggesting that the 9/11 terrorist attacks reflected God’s judgment on a nation spiritually weakened by the American Civil Liberties Union and supporters of gay rights, and after he called Muhammad a terrorist. He was ridiculed for an article in his National Liberty Journal that suggested that Tinky Winky, a character in the “Teletubbies” children’s show, could be a hidden homosexual signal, because the character was purple, had a triangle on its head and carried a handbag. But behind the controversies was a shrewd, savvy operator with an original vision for affecting political and moral change. He rallied religious conservatives to the political arena at a time when most fundamentalists and other conservative religious leaders were inclined to stay away, and helped pulled off what once seemed the impossible task of uniting religious conservatives from many faiths and doctrines over what they had in common, rather than focusing on the differences that kept them apart. He had numerous failures as well as successes, and always remained a divisive figure, demonized on the left in much the way that Senator or Jane Fonda were on the right. But political experts agree he was an enormously influential figure. “Behind the idea of the Moral Majority was this notion that there could be a coalition of these different religious groups that all agree on abortion and homosexuality and other issues even if they never agreed on how to read the Bible or the nature of God,” said John Green, director of the Ray C. Bliss Institute of Applied Politics at the University of Akron, who studies the religious conservative movement. “That was a real innovation,” Mr. Green said. “And even if that’s an idea that did not completely originate with Falwell, it’s certainly an idea he developed and championed independently of others. It was a very important insight, and it’s had a huge influence on American politics.” Jerry Lamon Falwell was born Aug. 11, 1933, in Lynchburg, Va. His ancestors there dated back to 1669, and his more immediate ones lived as if they were characters in the pageant of sin and redemption that formed his world view. His paternal grandfather, Charles William Falwell, embittered by the death of his wife and a favorite nephew, was a vocal and decisive atheist who would not go to church, and who ridiculed those who did. His father, Carey H. Falwell, was a flamboyant entrepreneur who opened his first grocery store when he was 22. Soon he was operating 17 service stations, many with little restaurants and stores attached. He built oil storage tanks, owned an oil company, and in 1927 founded American Bus Lines, which installed old battery-operated movie projectors to show Charlie Chaplin and Laurel and Hardy movies to riders. More Articles in Obituaries &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. More Articles in Obituaries &#x00bb; Men Walk on Moon - Jigsaw Puzzle N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
