http://www.komotv.com/news/local/7454856.html	Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Local & Regional Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Story Published: May 10, 2007 at 10:46 PM PDT Story Updated: May 10, 2007 at 10:46 PM PDT TACOMA, Wash. (AP) - A Pierce County jury has acquitted a man accused of having sex with the family dog. Michael Patrick McPhail, 26, of Spanaway, was found not guilty Wednesday in Pierce County Superior Court of first-degree animal cruelty. Assistant Pierce County Prosecutor Karen Watson said last fall that McPhail was the first person charged in the county under a new state law that made bestiality a felony. "I'm glad that justice was able to see it wasn't an action of my doing," McPhail said as he left the court building. He said he believes his wife made up the story because she is seeking to end their marriage. It was Jesika McPhail who contacted police and told them she'd caught her husband engaged in sexual intercourse with their pit bull, Sara, last October. Jesika McPhail was not immediately available for comment about the verdict. The case generated outrage among animal welfare advocates across the globe, many of whom called for McPhail to be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law. Deputy Prosecutor Brian Leech, who tried the case, said he was disappointed. "Obviously, I thought the facts were more than sufficient to merit a conviction," Leech said. "The defense was able to introduce some evidence about strife in the marriage. I don't think that was supported, but apparently the jury gave it some weight." The new law, which took effect last June, was prompted by a case in which a Seattle man died after having sex with a horse. Before the law was enacted, Washington was among roughly a dozen states where bestiality had not been explicitly prohibited. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken Conviction of man tricked into giving his DNA upheld Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest Paris Hilton: 'I'm ready to face the consequences' 'I just knew I was dead' Petrified forest unearthed in Central Washington Ken Schram: Living what they preach Music teacher arrested at elementary school Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/local/7448496.html	Federal lawsuit alleges disabled girl was raped | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Local & Regional Federal lawsuit alleges disabled girl was raped Story Published: May 10, 2007 at 2:55 PM PDT Story Updated: May 10, 2007 at 2:55 PM PDT PORTLAND, Ore. (AP) - The guardian of a disabled Clackamas High School student has filed a federal lawsuit claiming the girl was raped in a school bathroom by a student who had previously assaulted another disabled girl. The lawsuit, filed Thursday in U.S. District Court, names the North Clackamas School District, Superintendent Ron Naso, Clackamas High principal Jan Miner and teacher Angela Tucker. School district officials could not comment on the pending litigation, a spokesman said. The guardian alleges that the child, described in the suit as having "significant mental disabilities," was a student in Tucker's class when her best friend, another disabled girl, was raped by a special education student in a girls' restroom at the school in October 2004. The suit says the parents of the second girl reported the attack to school officials, who in turn "assured them and the rest of the parents" that the male student would not be allowed to be alone with any female students. They also said they would protect the boy "who did not have the capacity to understand or control his behavior," the suit said. In June 2005, the teacher sent the girl out of the "secure classroom," according to the lawsuit. No one supervised her, and, according to the suit, the male student followed her, took her into a girl's bathroom and raped her. The guardian said the child suffered physical and emotional injuries. The suit seeks up to $1 million in damages. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken Conviction of man tricked into giving his DNA upheld Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest Paris Hilton: 'I'm ready to face the consequences' 'I just knew I was dead' Petrified forest unearthed in Central Washington Ken Schram: Living what they preach Music teacher arrested at elementary school Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/local/7445836.html	"If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Local & Regional "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" Story Published: May 10, 2007 at 11:16 PM PDT Story Updated: May 11, 2007 at 8:18 AM PDT SEATTLE -- Right now, 1.5 percent of all cars sold in the U.S. are hybrids, and in three years that number is expected to be six times higher. At some local dealerships they even have waiting lists for customers who want to purchase a hybrid vehicle. But what makes these cars so desirable, is also creating an extra danger. The problem starts right under the hood, where most hybrids have bright orange cables carrying high-voltage electricity between the batteries and engine. Those cables can be a hot zone for firefighters responding to collisions involving hybrids. Emergency responders have an inherently hazardous job, but the proliferation of hybrid vehicles is adding to the potential dangers they face on a daily basis. The risk of electrocution is very real. "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you," said Seattle firefighter Tim Clark. "You have to understand what it is you're dealing with." The combination gas-electric vehicles have up to 500 volts running through them, and can also pose a danger to passengers in a crash. When firefighters are called to high-speed collisions, they often have to cut drivers and passengers out of the mangled vehicles. But cut in the wrong place on a hybrid car before the battery is disconnected, and it could result in a lethal shock. Clark says its just one more thing they have to think about when they're rushing to save lives. "If we don't spend a couple seconds on this, we could end up wishing we had," he said. Camano Island / Stanwood Fire Chief Darin Reid said that because of the complex electrical systems found in hybrid cars, they don't always behave the same way in a crash as traditional vehicles. "You could very well have a hybrid car moving while on fire," he said. And because the hybrid's electric motor is silent, firefighters can't always tell if it's running. Reid said that if rescuers wrongly assume that the engine is off, one wrong move could launch the hybrid into drive, with the victim still inside and firefighters on or near the vehicle. Fore the last seven years, Reid has been teaching everything he knows about hybrids to Washington firefighters. There are some standard do's and don'ts, but he reminds everyone that not all hybrids are the same. The electrical systems vary from one manufacturer to another. "No company puts the wiring in the same spot," Reid said. So, many fire departments often rely on the Internet when responding to crashes involving hybrid vehicles. It's not uncommon for firefighters to call up a manufacturer's web site so they can double-check the car's emergency response guidelines. Matt Stroud, a safety instructor with Toyota, spends much of his time training firefighters on how to safely deal with a Prius at the scene of a crash. Firefighters will often take field trips to area dealerships to practice disconnecting the car's electrical system. "All hybrids, including the Prius, have a built-in safety system that's supposed to turn the car off if it's in a crash," Stroud said. But the hybrid isn't fully safe until the battery is disconnected. "You've still got a boost factor of 500 volts," Stroud said, referring to a situation when the engine has shut down, but the batteries are still sending electricity through the cables. In March, a hybrid vehicle crashed into a convenience store in Tacoma and caught fire. Firefighters extinguished the flames, but because they were worried the car was still energized, they called a local dealership to walk them through disconnecting the battery. Safety is so important to Stroud, he's writing an emergency pocket guide for firefighters -- the first of its kind. Seattle firefighters will be the first in the nation to get the guide. Reid says the risks are manageable, but that it's crucial to educate rescuers. "When seconds do count, it's a lot less scary if firefighters know what they're up against." Tim Clark doesn't think it will be much of a problem for area firefighters. "It's a challenge," he said, "but we like that kind of thing." Hybrid-Electric Vehicles - Frequently Asked Questions Approaching Alternate-Fueled Vehicles - Information for Emergency Personnel University of Extrication - Inside Hybrid Cars Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken Conviction of man tricked into giving his DNA upheld Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest Paris Hilton: 'I'm ready to face the consequences' 'I just knew I was dead' Petrified forest unearthed in Central Washington Ken Schram: Living what they preach Music teacher arrested at elementary school Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/local/7462552.html	Firefighters battling 3-alarm fire in Tukwila | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Local & Regional Firefighters battling 3-alarm fire in Tukwila Story Published: May 11, 2007 at 9:34 AM PDT Story Updated: May 11, 2007 at 10:17 AM PDT TUKWILA, Wash. -- Firefighters are battling a stubborn 3-alarm blaze at a tire and auto parts shop. The blaze in the 3400 block of south 150th street was reported by neighbors just after 8 a.m. Friday The business was closed at the time of the fire, and firefighters don't believe anyone was inside. There have been no reports of injuries. For well over an hour, thick black smoke billowed out of the building and across nearby Highway 99. The plume could be seen for miles. Flames continue to shoot from the walls and roof as firefighter pour water on the building from the outside. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken Conviction of man tricked into giving his DNA upheld Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest Paris Hilton: 'I'm ready to face the consequences' 'I just knew I was dead' Petrified forest unearthed in Central Washington Ken Schram: Living what they preach Music teacher arrested at elementary school Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/local/7452601.html	Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Local & Regional Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken This photo taken in April shows the man who claimed to be an Army soldier (Snoqualmie Valley Record). Story Published: May 10, 2007 at 7:17 PM PDT Story Updated: May 10, 2007 at 8:15 PM PDT Some people in North Bend who opened their hearts and wallets to a needy soldier now say they've been duped by an imposter soldier. Residents say the man introduced himself as Lt. Don Daily, and said he served two tours in Iraq. He also said his local family left him with no money and no place to live. North Bend residents say Daily wore fatigues, kept his hair cropped and had a sob story that had almost everybody fooled. He stayed in a room at the North Bend motel, where he got to know the housekeeper. That woman, Jeanine Horsfall, says the story he told her broke her heart. "He just got back from Iraq and he is going to head out soon again," she said. "And his girlfriend took all the money he sent and took off with the kids." Horsfall felt so sorry for the soldier that she gave him what takes her two weeks to earn cleaning rooms. "I felt so bad that I went to the bank, got $500 and said, 'here, this is for you, because you're a soldier,'" she said. Daily also told his story at the Sure Shot Pub, where many who felt sorry for him bought him drinks and food. "He ate like a king. Unfortunately he didn't deserve it," said Lee Stark, the manager of the North Bend motel. "It was a kick in the pants." Stark asked the church to put Daily up in his motel. And a reporter from the local paper, the Snoqualmie Valley Record, even set out to write a human interest story about him. "He answered with 'yes, sir' and 'no,sir.' That kind of thing," said the editor of the paper, Leif Nesheim. The newspaper contacted the military to check out Daily's story. "Fort Bragg, bottom line, said they hadn't heard of him and they had no clue who he was," Nesheim said. Horsfall confronted Daily, who left the motel in the middle of the night. No one has seen him since. But Melissa Morrison, one of the people who helped Daily, has received a series of text messages from him. Daily's messages state he's on his way back to Iraq and that he probably would not come back alive. "Other soldiers have got killed by friendly fire after they have talked badly about the military to the press," the message read. A day and a half later, Morrison received one last text from the same phone number. This time, the sender identified himself as a private with tragic news about Lt. Daily. "He was shot and killed three hours ago by friendly fire," the message read. Morrison waited a few hours after receiving the text message, then used a phone card and called Daily's phone number back. And the man who had supposedly been killed by friendly fire answered the phone. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken Conviction of man tricked into giving his DNA upheld Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest Paris Hilton: 'I'm ready to face the consequences' 'I just knew I was dead' Petrified forest unearthed in Central Washington Ken Schram: Living what they preach Music teacher arrested at elementary school Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/local/7455516.html	Cops accused of bad behavior during strip club raids | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Local & Regional Cops accused of bad behavior during strip club raids Story Published: May 10, 2007 at 11:04 PM PDT Story Updated: May 10, 2007 at 11:12 PM PDT By KOMO Staff & Seattle P-I SEATTLE - Police officers are accused of bad behavior while working undercover in local strip clubs. Police reports obtained by the Seattle P-I suggest some officers may have gone too far to stop illegal dancing by mixing business with pleasure. Eight dancers were arrested at the Déjà Vu in March for illegal dancing. More than a dozen others were arrested at Rick's in Lake City last December. During those raids, officers tried to find out whether the dancers would solicit prostitution. And those extra steps they took to find out is raising a few eyebrows. In Seattle, exotic dancers can strip nearly naked while on stage, but not off stage. It's also illegal for dancers to touch customers. But according to the police reports from the two raids, which was obtained by the Seattle Post-Intelligencer, officers did more than just watch. "I grabbed her buttocks with both hands and kept them there throughout the dance," wrote one officer. "I asked her if I could touch it," wrote another officer. "I undid my belt," wrote another. All these actions reportedly took place after the dancers allegedly broke the law by exposing their genitals or touching the officers. KOMO 4 News was declined an on-camera interview with the Seattle Police Department. But the supervisor of the department's vice unit did talk to a Seattle P-I reporter. "if you just sit there with your hands tucked at your sides, they're going to know you're a cop," Eric Sano with the Seattle Police Department Vice Unit told the newspaper. One officer paid $100 for four lap dances from the same dancer even though she allegedly broke the law after the first one. City Councilman Nick Licata chairs the Public Safety Commmittee, which oversees the police department. Licata says the reports raise questions. "Is this how the police department is spending public money?" he said. "Our officers can be much better serving the public by being visible the neighborhoods than being in some dark club some place to see if they can arrest an exotic dancer." Deja Vu's attorney Jack Burns says the officers went too far. "They are overstepping the boundary.They had 12 to 25 officers out there to try and catch eight girls," he said. Among the 22 dancers arrested during the raids, three were arrested on suspicion of prostitution. More details of the investigation will be released in Friday's edition of the Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken Conviction of man tricked into giving his DNA upheld Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest Paris Hilton: 'I'm ready to face the consequences' 'I just knew I was dead' Petrified forest unearthed in Central Washington Ken Schram: Living what they preach Music teacher arrested at elementary school Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/local/7453516.html	Three preschool children found home alone in Spokane | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Local & Regional Three preschool children found home alone in Spokane Story Published: May 10, 2007 at 8:25 PM PDT Story Updated: May 10, 2007 at 8:58 PM PDT SPOKANE, Wash. (AP) - A preschooler who called 911 on Thursday to report "mom and daddy go bye bye" helped authorities find three young children left unattended in a home with drug paraphernalia. A 34-year-old woman, the mother of two of the children, was arrested when she showed up later after a gambling trip, Spokane police spokesman Officer Bill Hager said. The children - ages 4, 3 and 2 - were taken into custody by state Child Protective Services workers after spending as long as four hours by themselves. Jennifer K. Rigutto told authorities she had left the two boys and a girl with her ex-husband about 5 a.m. to go gambling with her boyfriend, police said. "I would never, never leave my children alone," Rigutto said. The case came to light when child protection workers called the house for a welfare check, and one of the children answered the phone, Police Lt. Darrell Toombs said. As CPS workers headed to the home, one of the children called 911 and said, "mom and daddy go bye-bye," Hager said. Rigutto was being investigated for child endangerment and possession of a controlled substance with intent to deliver, Hager said. William "Shad" Smith, 35, identified as the woman's ex-husband, was arrested Thursday evening and booked into the Spokane County Jail for investigation of three counts of second-degree child abandonment, Hager said. Police also sought the boyfriend, the father of one of the children, Hager said. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken Conviction of man tricked into giving his DNA upheld Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest Paris Hilton: 'I'm ready to face the consequences' 'I just knew I was dead' Petrified forest unearthed in Central Washington Ken Schram: Living what they preach Music teacher arrested at elementary school Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/local	KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Local & Regional Top Local & Regional Story Firefighters battling 3-alarm fire in Tukwila A stubborn fire at a tire and auto parts shop in Tukwila continues to burn, hours after it was reported Friday morning. More Local & Regional Stories "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" Demand in the U.S. for hybrid vehicles continues to rise, but the combination gas-electric cars and SUVs pose a unique danger to firefighters and police officers who respond when the vehicles are involved in a crash. Cops accused of bad behavior during strip club raids Seattle police officers are accused of bad behavior while working undercover in local strip clubs. Police reports obtained by the Seattle P-I suggest some officers may have gone too far to stop illegal dancing by mixing business with pleasure. Local & Regional Headlines Three dead in apparent murder-suicide in north Idaho Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Relatives grieve the loss of 6 Fort Lewis soldiers killed in Iraq Three preschool children found home alone in Spokane Candy-flavored meth targets young users Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken Federal lawsuit alleges disabled girl was raped UW president receives threatening e-mail 300 more from Fort Lewis heading to Iraq Suspected human remains found in fire-charred car in Kitsap County $50,000 bail for teacher accused of molestation Dioxin levels lead to higher costs for dredging Port of Olympia Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Petrified forest unearthed in Central Washington More commuters riding instead of driving Students warned after home-invasion rape Students welcome top teacher back to school Gonzales 'not aware' of DOJ using Wales killing to explain firing Conviction of man tricked into giving his DNA upheld Woman who posed as teenage boy pleads guilty Feds find explosives at home near Woodland After dealing with WASL, Gregoire signs other education bills Centralia men admit painting swastikas in Pullman Oregon governor signs gay rights bills into law Lawsuit: Nursing home killed elderly woman with morphine Paid family leave becomes law, financing uncertain Church members shocked, hurt by pastor's child rape charge McKay: White House likely behind firings Mom who triggered Amber Alert back in Washington state Rising gas prices stretching pizzeria's dough thin Six killed Fort Lewis soldiers identified Churches to offer illegal immigrants sanctuary Music teacher arrested at elementary school Sammamish school fighting norovirus outbreak 'I just knew I was dead' Rift forms between teachers and state superintendent Court hears challenge to school drug testing Gas prices, frustration continue to rise Gregoire delays WASL math and science grad requirement Threat forces evacuation of ferry Man suspected in Pierce County killings headed back to Wash. Apple prices at 10-year high Eyman property tax measure debated at state Supreme Court Church pastor charged with child rape Hospital broke law in treating stunted girl Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken Conviction of man tricked into giving his DNA upheld Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest Paris Hilton: 'I'm ready to face the consequences' 'I just knew I was dead' Petrified forest unearthed in Central Washington Ken Schram: Living what they preach Music teacher arrested at elementary school Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/local/7461327.html	Three dead in apparent murder-suicide in north Idaho | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Local & Regional Three dead in apparent murder-suicide in north Idaho Story Published: May 11, 2007 at 8:22 AM PDT Story Updated: May 11, 2007 at 9:39 AM PDT CALDER, Idaho (AP) - Three people were found dead and a woman survived a head wound after being shot at a remote house outside this northern Idaho hamlet, authorities said Friday. Shoshone County sheriff's deputies gave few details, but neighbors said a distraught man had wounded his estranged wife, killed her parents and committed suicide Thursday evening. Sheriff's Sgt. Derek Dofelmire identified one of the victims as Ricky Turner. He would not identify the other two, an elderly man and woman. Dofelmire said the survivor was Rose Turner, who he said was "very lucky" to be alive. She was flown to Sacred Heart Medical Center in Spokane, Wash., where "she has been able to provide information to our investigators," he said. More than one gun was recovered at the scene, he said. Neighbors told The Spokesman-Review of Spokane that Ricky Turner was Rose Turner's estranged husband and that he committed suicide after shooting her and her parents. The Turners had three children and her parents lived with her at the house, Julie Codoni told the newspaper. She said Ricky Turner was despondent over their divorce, which was to take effect Thursday. When Codoni talked to him Wednesday, "he was in really bad shape. He was hurting," she said. "He loved her. She was his life." Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken Conviction of man tricked into giving his DNA upheld Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest Paris Hilton: 'I'm ready to face the consequences' 'I just knew I was dead' Petrified forest unearthed in Central Washington Ken Schram: Living what they preach Music teacher arrested at elementary school Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/local/7452876.html	Candy-flavored meth targets young users | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Local & Regional Candy-flavored meth targets young users Story Published: May 10, 2007 at 7:33 PM PDT Story Updated: May 10, 2007 at 7:37 PM PDT In their quest to lure new, younger clientele, drug dealers are mixing their wares with over-the-counter pain remedies and other familiar products - even candy - and peddling them under non-threatening names. A new drug temptation has turned up in Grays Harbor County. It tastes like candy - often times like strawberry-flavored candy - but it's flavored methamphetamine. On the street, users call it "Strawberry Quick". Users and investigators say some kids as young as 11 and 12 already use meth. Now with a new evolution in meth production - meth with the coloring, look and flavor of sugar candy - they worry even younger kids will be lured by the drug. Tiffany Leal took her first hit of meth at the age of 15. A mug shot shows her battered by the drug, weighing just 98 pounds. She's clean now, speaking at a meth summit to students, some of whom cried when they heard her story. "I don't want people to cry but now I know it's making a difference," Leal said. "They're feeling what it's caused to somebody. They're seeing the truth, they're seeing the hurt." She never contended, though, with Strawberry Quick. Grays Harbor County sheriff's deputies say locals have only months before they contend with it. "It's only a matter of time," said Sgt. Ross McDowell. "It'll be here, I imagine probably by this summer." The doors of the youth meth action summit open into rural Lewis County, fertile ground for meth addiction. "Meth is major problem in Lewis County. It's connected to 80 percent of our major crime," McDowell said. "I've met 11 year olds who've done meth and still do it," Leal said. "It's just crazy. I never knew it until I saw them doing it." And there's the potential for more crime by even younger addicts hooked on Strawberry Quick. Many predict the new form will tempt younger kids and vulnerable people. "I think a lot more people will start using," Leal said. Police say the best thing to do is to talk to your kids. They say meth flavored like strawberry, blueberry or chocolate candy is still meth - addictive and potentially deadly. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken Conviction of man tricked into giving his DNA upheld Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest Paris Hilton: 'I'm ready to face the consequences' 'I just knew I was dead' Petrified forest unearthed in Central Washington Ken Schram: Living what they preach Music teacher arrested at elementary school Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/local/7451451.html	Relatives grieve the loss of 6 Fort Lewis soldiers killed in Iraq | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Local & Regional Relatives grieve the loss of 6 Fort Lewis soldiers killed in Iraq Staff Sgt. Vincenzo Romeo had planned to marry his fiancee, Amanda Anderson of Tacoma, when he returned from Iraq later this year. Story Published: May 10, 2007 at 5:39 PM PDT Story Updated: May 10, 2007 at 5:39 PM PDT SEATTLE (AP) - None of the six soldiers killed in one of the deadliest attacks on a Fort Lewis unit in more than two years lived to see his 30th birthday. They were members of the Army's 3rd Brigade, 2nd Infantry Division, and all had entered active-duty service within the past six years. Most were serving their first tour when a homemade bomb exploded near their vehicle Sunday in Baqubah, Iraq. As the post south of Tacoma plans a memorial service Tuesday, relatives of the soldiers recalled the fallen sons, brothers and fiances they had hoped to see come home in October. At 28, Joel Lewis was the oldest of the six soldiers and serving his first tour in Iraq. Sgt. Lewis stood 6-foot-6 and attracted friends easily with his broad smile and infectious laughter, said his mother, Gale Poindexter. "He exuded a warmth. He wasn't intimidating," Poindexter said in a telephone call Thursday from her home in Tulsa, Okla. Lewis, of Sandia Park, N.M., was charismatic and loved the outdoors, taking enjoyment in hockey, skydiving and snowboarding. His mother said he joined the Army in June 2001, likely for adventure and travel. "He just would never be a 9-to-5, desk kind of guy," said Poindexter, who plans for her son to be buried at Tahoma National Cemetery in Kent. Staff Sgt. Vincenzo Romeo had planned to marry his fiancee, Amanda Anderson of Tacoma, when he returned from Iraq later this year. "Enzo," as loved ones called him, was a "kind and courageous person who brought joy and laughter to all around him," his family said in a statement. Romeo, 23, of Lodi, N.J., was born in Calabria, Italy, and came to the United States with his family in 1986. He joined the military in March 2003 and by November of that year had deployed with the 3rd Brigade for his first mission to Iraq. This latest tour was Romeo's second to Iraq, one that was extended by three months in an effort to bolster troop levels in the country. "Enzo, our hearts are broken and our lives will never be the same without you," relatives said. "We love and miss you always." Jason Harkins also was serving for a second time in Iraq. The 25-year-old sergeant from Clarksville, Ga., first joined the Army Reserves in 1999, then volunteered for active duty in December 2002. A true "country boy," Harkins enjoyed returning to his hometown to fish and spend time with his family, wife Emily said in a statement. "He found the best in every situation and could always make those around him laugh," Emily said. "He was also a very loving man, who cared deeply for people and looked forward to one day being a father." Cpl. Matthew Alexander, 21, enlisted in the Army after graduating from Gretna High School in Nebraska in 2004. He reported to Fort Lewis in December 2004 and eventually was assigned to the 3rd Brigade's 5th Battalion, 20th Infantry Division. This was the first deployment for Alexander, whose wife, Kara, said he "was the most gracious man I knew." "He made it his life's work to take care of those he loved," she said in a statement. The young soldier "fought for a cause he believed in, and on May 6, 2007, died for a country he loved," she said. "Matt truly was our angel on Earth. He will be greatly missed." Anthony Bradshaw's older brother was already in the military when he decided to enlist in the Army in August 2004. The 21-year-old reported for training at Fort Benning, Ga., then was assigned to Fort Lewis. Less than two years later, in June 2006, Cpl. Bradshaw left for his first deployment. His cousin, Andrea Shea, told KTSM Television in El Paso, Texas, that it was hard learning of the young man's death. "You don't believe it. You just want to know what happened," Shea said. Cpl. Michael Pursel was 19 when he died, the youngest of the six soldiers killed when the homemade bomb exploded near their vehicle. Pursel moved to Lacey in 1998, when his father was reassigned from Germany to Fort Lewis. His mother, Terry Dutcher, is a captain in the Air Force Reserve who lives in Hooper, Utah. Dutcher was not immediately available for comment Thursday. A woman answering Dutcher's cell phone and who identified herself as Pursel's grandmother said joining the military was his dream. "Michael's wanted to join the Army since he was 2 years old," she said. "As soon as he got out of high school he joined." Pursel enlisted in April of last year. He'd been in Iraq just over a month when he died. "Michael was doing what he always wanted to do," Dutcher told The Olympian newspaper of Olympia. "In light of how it turned out, I know Michael was happy. I just take peace in that right now." Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken Conviction of man tricked into giving his DNA upheld Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest Paris Hilton: 'I'm ready to face the consequences' 'I just knew I was dead' Petrified forest unearthed in Central Washington Ken Schram: Living what they preach Music teacher arrested at elementary school Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
