http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/06/books/review/Barry.t.html?ex=1336104000&en=0cec8c6324a9317c&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Send: The Essential Guide to Email for Office and Home - David Shipley and Will Schwalbe - Books - Review - New York Times Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 6, 2007 A few years back, when my son was in college, he had to mail a letter. I don’t remember the specific reason, but I do remember having a conversation with him in which he complained bitterly about the amount of work involved — finding a place where he could purchase a stamp, figuring out what kind of stamp he needed, actually writing the letter, locating an envelope, putting the letter into the envelope, having to physically leave his dormitory room to mail the envelope and so on. I grew exhausted just listening to him describe this series of arduous tasks, one coming right after another. I was glad, for my son’s sake, that he never had to live in a world — as I once did — where the only way to change channels was to walk all the way to the TV set and manually turn a knob. Skip to next paragraph The Essential Guide to Email for Office and Home. By David Shipley and Will Schwalbe. 247 pp. Alfred A. Knopf. $19.95. Unlike my son, I did not grow up with e-mail and texting, but I have come to agree with him: electronic communication is superior to the old-fashioned paper kind. I do almost all of my communicating by e-mail. I’ve been known to e-mail people who were literally standing next to me, which I know sounds crazy, because at that distance I could easily call them on my cellphone. But I prefer e-mail, because it’s such an effective way of getting information to somebody without running the risk of becoming involved in human conversation. I’ve become so dependent on e-mail that I sometimes wonder how we ever got by without it. Imagine, for example, how useful it would have been for Paul Revere. Instead of having to climb onto a horse in the middle of the night and ride through Massachusetts spreading the alarm, he could have simply whipped out his , fired off a quick message to the patriots in Lexington and Concord, then gone to sleep (unless he also had TiVo). Of course there might have been problems. Since Revere was typing with his thumbs, his e-mail probably would have said something like, “teh nritish are cming.” As a result the recipients might not have grasped the urgency of the message. The Concord patriots might have assumed it was mainly intended for the Lexington patriots, while Lexington might have assumed Concord was going to handle it, and we would still be British subjects today. I’m not saying that would be a bad thing; I’m just saying it was not what Revere meant to accomplish. E-mail, for all its efficiency, often fails to achieve its intended result; a vague or carelessly worded message can cause major problems — personal, legal and financial — for senders and receivers. Helping you avoid these problems is the goal of “Send,” an informative, entertaining, thorough and thoughtful book. The authors are media veterans — David Shipley is deputy editorial page editor of The New York Times; Will Schwalbe is editor in chief of Hyperion Books — with extensive, and not always positive, experience sending and receiving e-mail. They summarize their essential message in two rules: “Think before you send” and “Send e-mail you would like to receive.” These rules may seem obvious, but both are deceptively easy to break in our rapid-fire, multitasking world. Many of us, especially if we have handheld e-mail devices, routinely process e-mail while engaging in other activities such as walking, talking, eating and even (you know who you are) driving. I am not proud of this, but I have processed e-mail while accompanying my 6-year-old daughter on the “Small World” ride at World. These are not ideal conditions for thoughtfulness. It’s impossible to concentrate fully on your e-mail when you’re distracted, especially by animated dolls shrieking about international understanding. You’re going to get careless; you’re going to make mistakes in both content and tone. And there are many, many mistakes to be made. In “Send,” Shipley and Schwalbe describe in detail the alarming array of ways you can botch e-mail even before you start writing the message. These include using a misleading or meaningless subject (“Re: Re: Re:”); addressing the e-mail to the wrong recipients, or too many of them; putting somebody in the “To” list who should be a “Cc” or vice versa; and misusing the sneaky “Bcc” and “Forward” commands, which can easily cause a confidential message to become very public indeed. The authors also touch on a pet peeve of mine: people who abuse the “Reply All” command. Perhaps you are one of them. You receive a message addressed to many recipients — often a much-recycled joke, story, list, urban myth, etc. There are millions of these floating around; many of us simply delete them unread. But you, the “Reply All” abuser, read it and decide to respond with some clever comment of your own (such as “LOL”). And instead of hitting “Reply,” which would inflict your reply only on the sender, you hit “Reply All,” thereby forcing everybody on the recipient list to receive, and delete, yet another useless piece of e-mail. Please do not take this personally, “Reply All” people, but: everybody hates you. We hate you almost as much as we hate the people who mass-mail this Internet sludge in the first place. Dave Barry's most recent book is “Dave Barry’s Money Secrets, Like: Why Is There a Giant Eyeball on the Dollar?” Next Article in Books (3 of 20) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. THE 6th ANNUAL YEAR IN IDEAS; Literary Spam THE FUNNY PAGES: III: SUNDAY SERIAL; The Outlook: Chapter 4: A Threatening Message ESSAY; Literary Letters, Lost In Cyberspace Next Article in Books (3 of 20) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Basics: Seizing the Moment Faster Fashion, Cheaper Chic The Real Owner of All Those Planes Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix Wall St. Journal Editors Held News of Murdoch Bid Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/06/books/review/Kunkel.t.html	Nirvana: The Biography - Everett True - Books - Review - New York Times Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 6, 2007 Until I received the assignment to review Everett True’s “Nirvana,” I hadn’t listened to the band much in recent years. In this I suspect I’m like most of us who were in our late teens or early 20s when Nirvana’s singer, songwriter and guitarist, Kurt Cobain, died in April 1994, hardly two and a half years after the release of “Nevermind.” There was so much hype — inevitable word — over Nirvana and its demise that the music later seemed somehow buried beneath the ephemera it occasioned. It became almost embarrassing to listen, in one’s dorm room, to Cobain’s strangely sarcastic and inviting voice, when journalists had called him the voice of our generation. And the band’s tortured ambivalence over its tremendous popularity grew to seem sadly quaint. When “Nevermind” came out, the marketing of the Persian Gulf war as a blockbuster action film was a fresh outrage, as was the recruitment of the ’ song “Revolution” as an advertising jingle; we were not yet thoroughly familiar with the emotional indecency of commercialization. We are now four years into the gulf war’s skillfully marketed sequel, while Cobain’s widow, , has recently licensed her husband’s song “Breed” for use by a manufacturer of video games. How to listen to the anthems of the early ’90s in what are already the late ’00s? What does “Smells Like Teen Spirit” sound like when you’re in your 30s, as Kurt Cobain, dead at 27, of course will never be? Skip to next paragraph Illustrated. 636 pp. Da Capo Press. Paper, $19.95. You might hope that True would take up these questions and convincingly assess the band’s music and legacy. After all, this is not the first book to tell the story of Nirvana’s emergence “from the bowels of a redneck logger town called Aberdeen, WA,” as Cobain put it in a press release accompanying the unknown band’s first single, and the group’s achievement (to cite the same mock-grandiose document) of “success, fame and a following of millions.” Michael Azerrad’s “Come as You Are,” published in 1993 and written with Nirvana’s cooperation, provides an intimate sense of Cobain and his band mates, Dave Grohl and Krist Novoselic, even if it scants their backgrounds and minimizes Cobain’s heroin problem. Another notable piece of Nirvanology is Charles R. Cross’s “Heavier Than Heaven” (2001), an insightful and fairly well-written Cobain biography, however badly marred by the author’s deference to Courtney Love’s version of events and a fictional reconstruction of Cobain’s final hours. True might have built on the work of his precursors and distilled some insight from his own experience as the journalist who perhaps spent the most time with the band. Yet for something billed as the band’s definitive biography, “Nirvana” is an oddly marginal and sketchy production. The joyous, pounding attack of Grohl’s drumming and Novoselic’s slinky, insinuating bass lines were as important to Nirvana’s sound as what the band’s first producer accurately called Cobain’s “cool scream.” However, neither Grohl nor Novoselic consented to be interviewed, and True has fallen out with his old friend Courtney Love, the actor, musician and celebrity provocateur Cobain married in 1992. “Nirvana” consists largely of long, apparently unedited chunks of interviews with bit players in the band’s story, and True hardly attempts to adjudicate among competing points of view, to assign relative importance to different events or even to determine whether Nirvana really merits the special treatment of a 600-and-some-page biography. “Why would one band be favored over the other?” he asks. It’s a mystery, too, why True favors some factual considerations over others. “The first commonly agreed occurrence of a totally smashed guitar happened at Evergreen State College on Oct. 30” is his deadpan historian’s judgment. Other, more obviously important matters don’t concern him. He reproduces, seemingly in their entirety, long articles he once wrote for the British magazine Melody Maker, but doesn’t so much as quote from Cobain’s suicide note. And then there is the question, uncomfortably difficult to dismiss, whether Cobain composed a suicide note at all, rather than a draft of a goodbye letter to fans (Nirvana was on the verge of announcing its breakup) later doctored by another hand. Max Wallace and Ian Halperin’s “Love & Death” (2005) is a disquieting collation of the circumstantial and forensic evidence suggesting Cobain was murdered, and True might at least have considered the persistent questions hanging over this most famous of rock ’n’ roll suicides. The one outstanding virtue of True’s book is his close attention to musical politics, especially Cobain’s ambivalent relationship to the puritanically anticommercial, do-it-yourself ethos he discovered among the musicians of Olympia, Wash., where he lived for several years. “Hello, we’re major-label corporate rock sellouts,” Cobain declared to a crowd in early 1991, not long after the band signed with the Company; and Nirvana could never decide whether its success counted as victory or appeasement. What True appreciates most about Nirvana appears to be its tolerant, feminist sexual politics, unusual in a band owing such a debt to heavy metal. Cobain and Novoselic French-kissed on “Saturday Night Live” (something NBC edited out of rebroadcasts of the show), and Cobain was never shy in interviews about expressing his admiration for women. It introduced something new to the world of crunching, Black Sabbath-esque riffs when he wore a prom dress to MTV’s “Headbangers Ball” — after all, he winningly explained, it was a ball. And yet the power of Nirvana’s music had little to do with the promise of, in True’s words, a “less macho, more female-led” rock ’n’ roll. As an erotic politician (in Jim Morrison’s memorable definition of the rock star), Kurt Cobain believed in men and women getting along. As a songwriter, he was more preoccupied with the difficulty of getting along with himself. Benjamin Kunkel is an editor of n+1 magazine and the author of the novel “Indecision.” Next Article in Books (5 of 20) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Pretty on the Inside Smells Like Civic Spirit MEDIA; Nine Years After Cobain's Death, Big Sales for All Things Nirvana THE POP LIFE; By Kurt Cobain, Re: Himself Next Article in Books (5 of 20) &#x00bb; A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Forever Fab Beatles Commemorative Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/06/books/review/Paglia.t.html?ex=1336104000&en=c73588b3b2e69e4a&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Teenage: The Creation of Youth Culture - Jon Savage - Books - Review - New York Times The Young and the Restless Fans wait for a glimpse of Frank Sinatra, Los Angeles, 1944. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 6, 2007 When did teenage angst and arrogance begin? Many baby boomers, still fighting over the legacy of the 1960s as they lurch toward retirement, think of themselves as products of the rock ’n’ roll rebellion that shattered the bourgeois proprieties of the 1950s. Chronicled in song and witnessed by the new electronic media, the impudent saga of the ’60s counterculture seemed unique. Skip to next paragraph The Creation of Youth Culture. Illustrated. 549 pp. Viking. $29.95. Jon Savage’s massive new book, “Teenage: The Creation of Youth Culture,” provides the prequel. There has in fact been wave after wave of youthful defiance — Savage begins his study in the 19th century — whether idealistic or hedonistic or both. The author of “England’s Dreaming: Anarchy, Sex Pistols, Punk Rock and Beyond,” Savage seems more at home with popular culture than with the fine arts. Hence the material in “Teenage” on ragtime, swing and the movies is stronger than that on modernist painters and poets. Savage traces his interest in generational insurrection to his childhood in the tranquil London suburbs of the 1950s and ’60s. His father was a World War II veteran, and the legacy of that war was still visible in the bombed-out districts of England’s major cities. Savage feels that the “unresolved horror” of the war period “informed the extreme manifestations of youth culture” in which he “thoroughly immersed” himself during the 1960s and ’70s. “Teenage” takes a while to hit its stride. The first chapter awkwardly interweaves the journal of Marie Bashkirtseff (a Russian-born painter who died of tuberculosis at the age of 25 in Paris in 1884) with the grisly crimes of a 15-year-old serial child murderer, Jesse Pomeroy, who was jailed in 1874 in Massachusetts. This strained pairing, with its manufactured shock, was all too typical of pretentious academic books in postmodernist cultural studies in the late 1980s and ’90s. Worse, the chapter ends with a whiplash-inducing jump backward to the late 18th century of Rousseau and Goethe — the crucible of youth-powered Romanticism that should have been front and center at the start. Given this book’s sympathy to every modern glimmer of homosexuality, it is strange that there is no discussion of the ancient Greeks’ glorification of youth, which was revived by Italian Renaissance artists like Donatello and Michelangelo. But once it gets going, “Teenage” becomes compulsive reading. Savage parallels the “militarist vision for youth” promoted by newly industrial and aggressively nationalist Germany in the 1870s and ’80s to the “cult of masculinity” and bullying suppression of individuality embodied in team sports in elite British schools, which shaped boys for imperial service. Savage amusingly juxtaposes the earnest social prototype of the “muscular Christian” with the capricious iconoclasm of Arthur Rimbaud and . Missing, however, is the Romantic lineage of these writers in Théophile Gautier and other aesthetes : not everything in literature should be interpreted as a direct response to current events or social conditions. The portrait of Wilde is distorted in treating him only as a decadent and an oppressed gay outcast. Wilde’s success as a writer of stage comedies, as well as a bon vivant who catered to the elite, is ignored. Furthermore, when Savage says that “Wilde’s influence over the young was a central issue” at his two trials and that he was accused of “sodomy with 12 youths,” the running theme of social class is oddly erased. Wilde’s violation of class borders in consorting with grooms, valets and coachmen was a major point raised against him in court — and one he did not honestly answer. Savage’s account of the “Apaches” — criminal bands of “inner urban savages” — of early-20th-century Paris is fascinating, but in rightly calling them “essentially a media creation” he neglects to trace their popular lineage. Apache dancing — a fierce psychodrama of sex war — would be introduced to film by Rudolph Valentino and would linger as an erotic trope well into the Beat era, as can be seen in Audrey Hepburn’s brilliant feminist parody of it in a Parisian nightclub in “Funny Face.” Whether L. Frank Baum’s “Wonderful Wizard of Oz,” published in 1900, should be classified as an artifact of youth culture seems questionable. Savage is on firm ground when he links Baum’s Emerald City to the White City of the World’s Columbian Exposition. But tornado-tossed Dorothy belongs to an earlier fairy-tale tradition of the questing girl-child, revived in Lewis Carroll’s spunky Alice. Camille Paglia is the university professor of humanities and media studies at the University of the Arts in Philadelphia. She is the author, most recently, of “Break, Blow, Burn.” Next Article in Books (4 of 20) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Social Conditions and Trends Next Article in Books (4 of 20) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Basics: Seizing the Moment Faster Fashion, Cheaper Chic The Real Owner of All Those Planes Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix Wall St. Journal Editors Held News of Murdoch Bid Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer NYT ESSENTIAL LIBRARY: CLASSICAL MUSIC Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/06/books/review/Miles.t.html?ex=1336104000&en=d83136530f7abcc4&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	The Cigarette Century - Allan M. Brandt - Books - Review - New York Times Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 6, 2007 It is a familiar exchange: I step up to the counter at a convenience store and order my daily ration of Camel cigarettes, which I have been smoking since the Reagan administration and, as it happens, am smoking as I type this. Sliding the pack across the counter, the clerk — female clerks, typically; male clerks are more laissez-faire — sighs and says to me, “You know you need to quit.” My response, well honed over the years, goes like this: “I know I should quit,” I say, “but there’s one problem. I enjoy it.” On rare occasions, the clerk startles and smiles — that’s how it played out this morning — as if tickled by this forbidden admission. Far more frequently, however, I find myself at the receiving end of a uniformly bemused, pitying and faintly disgusted stare. I cannot possibly mean what I have just uttered, the stare says to me. The victim cannot confess to the crime. The cash register rings its tinny ring as the clerk slides the drawer shut and sadly wags her head. Skip to next paragraph The Rise, Fall, and Deadly Persistence of the Product That Defined America. By Allan M. Brandt. Illustrated. 600 pp. Basic Books. $36. Allan M. Brandt’s “Cigarette Century,” a fat chronicle of the rise and fall of the cigarette in the 20th century, delivers that same ruthful stare. Brandt, a professor of the history of medicine at Harvard Medical School, canvasses giant chunks of terrain here — the culture, science, politics, law and global spread of the cigarette, to cite just his section headings — without ever pausing to examine the central, vexing paradox of smoking: that in return for death, cigarettes give pleasure. Justifiable pleasure? Of course not. What Kant deemed “negative pleasure”? Perhaps. But pleasure nonetheless. Smokers, in Brandt’s view, are midwifed by an array of potent forces: ferocious tobacco advertising; peer pressure; cultural aesthetics (i.e., the imitable artfulness of Humphrey Bogart cupping a smoke); the addictive properties of nicotine; the tobacco industry’s pernicious campaign to obfuscate the perils of smoking; youthful longing for easy rebellion; and even, as evidenced by the boom in smoking after World War I, the scalding stress of trench warfare. But the cigarette itself, outside of its chemical components, gets scant credit. “One must not forget,” Jean Cocteau once wrote, “that the pack of cigarettes, the ceremony that extracts them, lights the lighter, and that strange cloud which penetrates us and which our nostrils puff, have with powerful charms seduced and conquered the world.” To be immune to those charms is naturally Brandt’s prerogative. To refuse or fail to acknowledge them in a history of the cigarette, however, is more problematic, and suggests the question: Is a cigarette sometimes just a cigarette? Or does the totality of its meanings — up to and including its flavors, fragrance and neurological kick — stem from a cultural moment, a peculiar and corporate-engineered hinge in time and place? “It seems striking,” Brandt writes, “that a product of such little utility, ephemeral in its very nature, could be such an encompassing vehicle for understanding the past. But the cigarette permeates 20th-century America as smoke fills an enclosed room.” The cigarette came of age with, and thanks to, dramatic advances in manufacturing technology and marketing tactics, and was further helped along by the tectonic shifts in consumer culture and social mores that followed World War I. It was, pun intended, a breathtakingly fast rise. In 1904, cigarettes accounted for only 5 percent of the domestic tobacco market. By midcentury, nearly half of all adults smoked. Cigarettes were ubiquitous, with ashtrays freckling every room: nurseries, doctors’ offices, TV news studios. The tobacco industry — a bad seed from the beginning, as Brandt shows (as early as 1908, the American Tobacco Company was battling the feds, this time over antitrust regulations) — nurtured and exploited that ubiquity. If the health hazards of smoking were not “proven” until midcentury, they were readily apparent. Yet scientists, early on, found themselves lumped together with antitobacco moralists in the public mind, which imbued their cautions with the shrill taint of Victorian finger-wagging. Carcinogenesis sounded a lot like degeneracy, and America was happy to blow a collective stream of smoke in the face of that charge. ll that changed in the early 1950s, when the causal relationship between smoking and lung cancer was finally “proven,” in scientific terms, and more formally “alleged,” in tobacco industry parlance. Faced with damning evidence, the industry devised a cagey defense: rather than denying the harms of smoking, it insisted there were “two sides” to the story, and corralled skeptical scientists — perennially available on any subject — to rebut or at least cast doubt upon the medical consensus. Journalists were urged to consider “fairness” and “balance” in covering the invented “controversy.” The industry’s public relations arm, Brandt writes, was “adept at taking a single dissenter and assuring widespread media coverage of his views.” This purposeful agnosticism, which served the tobacco industry well, will sound eerily familiar to anyone following the “debate” — another case in which a few pedigreed skeptics, whose views align with those of a powerful industry, are framing consensus as controversy. “The industry,” Brandt writes, “insisted on scientific criteria that it knew full well could not be attained then, or ever.” From this point on, “The Cigarette Century” morphs into combat history, into a meticulous record of the myriad courtroom clashes that defined the life of the cigarette in the latter years of the 20th century. Brandt’s admirable skills as a researcher and analyst are in full flower here, though readers searching for courtroom drama and more human scale should refer to Richard Kluger’s -winning “Ashes to Ashes,” a silkier, smoother narrative that tracked the tobacco wars up through the mid-1990s. If the tobacco trials have yet to extinguish the industry, as antismoking advocates have been hoping for years, they’ve certainly delivered mortal wounds — most effectively, perhaps, in the discovery process, which unearthed decades’ worth of slimy industry documents (including one industry idea Brandt quotes, from a 1987 brainstorming session, to deal with health concerns: “Create a bigger monster (AIDS)”) that has made every cigarette purchase since feel like a deal with the devil, on top of a dance with death. Additional tort action, and ramped-up regulation now that tobacco support has become more of a political liability than an advantage, seems likely to further chip away the number of domestic smokers until just a few of us will remain, huddled in the rain 500 feet away from any possible contact with others, impoverished from taxes and life insurance premiums and the inability to pass a nicotine-finding blood test in order to get a job. Yet the essential conundrum, succinctly stated in a 1961 tobacco-industry memo, will remain: “There are biologically active materials present in cigarette tobacco. These are: a) cancer causing; b) cancer promoting; c) poisonous; d) stimulating, pleasurable and flavorful.” Jonathan Miles contributes the “Shaken and Stirred” column to the Sunday Styles section of The Times. Next Article in Books (2 of 20) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. 'Goodnight Moon,' Smokeless Version 'The Least Secretive Life' Next Article in Books (2 of 20) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Basics: Seizing the Moment Faster Fashion, Cheaper Chic The Real Owner of All Those Planes Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix Wall St. Journal Editors Held News of Murdoch Bid Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/06/books/review/Bentley.t.html	Thick as Thieves - Steve Geng - Books - Review - New York Times Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 6, 2007 “When they asked me why I lied, I lied,” confesses Steve Geng, small-time crook, sometime actor, drug addict and drunk. (Or is he lying and was he, in fact, telling the truth?) At the time, Geng was living at the Daytop Village rehab facility on Staten Island, wearing a “Pinocchio nose” and a can labeled “A Can of Lies” to remind him of his predilection. You’ve gotta love the literalness of recovery programs. Skip to next paragraph Courtesy of Steve Geng A Brother, a Sister — a True Story of Two Turbulent Lives. 292 pp. Henry Holt & Company. $24. First Chapter: ‘Thick as Thieves’ For anyone who still hasn’t reached personal closure with James “I am an Alcoholic and I am a Drug Addict and I am a Criminal” Frey and his self-aggrandizement, Geng’s memoir, “Thick as Thieves,” is here as a reminder: addicts lie as often as they need a fix. What was so disturbing about the Frey debacle was not his deceit, but that the entire world, and , were so surprised at his mendacity. I bet no friends of Bill’s were surprised. Geng’s memoir, his first book, is a welcome antidote to Freysian cynicism and does much to restore integrity to the genre of the addict memoir as presented in classics by William S. Burroughs, and Jerry Stahl — all true tales, no doubt. Geng’s story is tamer, to be sure, but he has earned his misery honestly: arriving in his mid-60s having been arrested some 30 times; spending, cumulatively, years in jail, less time in rehab; going head to head with a claw hammer; and being set on fire by a girlfriend. Geng’s story carries no dedication, but the book is clearly an elegy — and a confession — for his sister, Veronica Geng, the brilliant New Yorker writer and editor who died in 1997 at the age of 56. This memoir could have been called “Steve Loves Ron.” “Ron,” two years older than Steve, was the hero of his life. She was a fragile, sad, mercurial, difficult creature, but “her laugh was the clearest manifestation of love, and I learned early how to get it.” At their childhood home in Philadelphia, they are sitting one day at the breakfast table with bowls of steaming oatmeal in front of them. After their mother, Rosina, leaves the room, Ron suddenly rubs her hands in her hair and whispers: “Hey, Stevie. Shampoo!” “I was no dummy,” Geng writes. “I scooped up handfuls of porridge and plopped them on my head.” The glimpses of young Veronica are one of the chief delights of Geng’s story. Ron was a wit from the start, defending herself against her father, Charlie, a career Army officer whose inane, often drunken remarks — his “kiddin’ around” — “would reduce Ron to tears.” When she proudly displays her Easter shoes, her father comments, “Christ, you could land a plane on those skis.” The torture called teasing is an underreported form of insidious soul murder for many earnest little girls. To see just how far Ron took revenge, read her collection “Love Trouble,” a compendium of such militant satire and wicked irony that it will disinhibit your serotonin without a prescription. When Steve asks his big sister if they are ever going to grow up “like Mom and Daddy,” Ron replies: “Like dy? Jeez, I hope not.” She goes on to explain that “what Daddy did is more like ... photosynthesis.” “Charlie,” Rosina says one day to her husband, “did you see this beautiful new vacuum cleaner, the Hoover?” ver?” he responds. “We got Commies taking over the railroads and you’re telling me about a goddamned vacuum cleaner?” “We should definitely get the vacuum,” Ron adds, “before Commies take over the Hoover.” Charlie remained unimpressed with his daughter’s talent and intelligence her whole life. He was that kind of dad. Young Steve engages in cruder forms of subversion, like pulling his mother aside one day and pointing to one of his frequent adolescent erections, saying: “Hey, Mom. What’s this all about?” Ron gets A’s, Steve gets D’s and F’s. He has his first beer at the age of 8, and likes it plenty. His goal is simple: “Get out of the house.” Before long he is stealing and setting fires just for “the exquisite thrill of getting away with it.” Soon Charlie is making his “On the Waterfront” proclamation: “That kid’s a bum and he’s always gonna be a bum!” That kind of dad. “Although resentment isn’t quite the same thing as having a direction in life,” Geng writes in his lucid prose, “it revved me up and gave me some torque.” He is now ready for a life of sex, crime, drugs and rock ’n’ roll. His role models: “the hipster, the hophead and the hustler.” The locales change as Geng’s capers proceed. In Paris he enjoys the whores of Rue Pigalle: “She exuded a certain confidence now that I was a repeat customer. It was as close as I’d come at that point to having my own girlfriend.” Back in the States, Geng is soon on the lam in San Francisco for hot-wiring and crashing a car with a friend while high on methedrine. After a chase by the cops, who open fire, he is arrested and spends a few months in San Bruno County Jail. Out of prison he repairs to his parents’ house in Clearwater, Fla., for a little R & R, and works at Kentucky Fried Chicken. When he’s saved enough money, he heads to New York to resume his pursuit of “serious drugs.” He has his first taste of heroin and “finally found what I was looking for ... better than sex.” Did I mention that Chet Baker is one of Geng’s idols? Now that he’s found his métier, he develops his skills in “boosting” to support his habit. He becomes famous as “Record Steve,” stealing records under his coat, as many as 20 to 30 at a time, and selling them out of shopping bags on Eighth Street. His career trajectory is regularly interrupted by jail time — three months on , 30 days on Hart Island, almost a year in Pinellas County Jail, nine months in . Eat your heart out, James Frey. Toni Bentley, a former dancer with the New York City Ballet, is the author, most recently, of “The Surrender: An Erotic Memoir.” Next Article in Books (6 of 20) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Families and Family Life Next Article in Books (6 of 20) &#x00bb; A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer 42nd Street Crosstown Trolley, 1898 Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/06/books/review/Bentley.t.html?ex=1336104000&en=63c96734191f11f5&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Thick as Thieves - Steve Geng - Books - Review - New York Times Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 6, 2007 “When they asked me why I lied, I lied,” confesses Steve Geng, small-time crook, sometime actor, drug addict and drunk. (Or is he lying and was he, in fact, telling the truth?) At the time, Geng was living at the Daytop Village rehab facility on Staten Island, wearing a “Pinocchio nose” and a can labeled “A Can of Lies” to remind him of his predilection. You’ve gotta love the literalness of recovery programs. Skip to next paragraph Courtesy of Steve Geng A Brother, a Sister — a True Story of Two Turbulent Lives. 292 pp. Henry Holt & Company. $24. First Chapter: ‘Thick as Thieves’ For anyone who still hasn’t reached personal closure with James “I am an Alcoholic and I am a Drug Addict and I am a Criminal” Frey and his self-aggrandizement, Geng’s memoir, “Thick as Thieves,” is here as a reminder: addicts lie as often as they need a fix. What was so disturbing about the Frey debacle was not his deceit, but that the entire world, and , were so surprised at his mendacity. I bet no friends of Bill’s were surprised. Geng’s memoir, his first book, is a welcome antidote to Freysian cynicism and does much to restore integrity to the genre of the addict memoir as presented in classics by William S. Burroughs, and Jerry Stahl — all true tales, no doubt. Geng’s story is tamer, to be sure, but he has earned his misery honestly: arriving in his mid-60s having been arrested some 30 times; spending, cumulatively, years in jail, less time in rehab; going head to head with a claw hammer; and being set on fire by a girlfriend. Geng’s story carries no dedication, but the book is clearly an elegy — and a confession — for his sister, Veronica Geng, the brilliant New Yorker writer and editor who died in 1997 at the age of 56. This memoir could have been called “Steve Loves Ron.” “Ron,” two years older than Steve, was the hero of his life. She was a fragile, sad, mercurial, difficult creature, but “her laugh was the clearest manifestation of love, and I learned early how to get it.” At their childhood home in Philadelphia, they are sitting one day at the breakfast table with bowls of steaming oatmeal in front of them. After their mother, Rosina, leaves the room, Ron suddenly rubs her hands in her hair and whispers: “Hey, Stevie. Shampoo!” “I was no dummy,” Geng writes. “I scooped up handfuls of porridge and plopped them on my head.” The glimpses of young Veronica are one of the chief delights of Geng’s story. Ron was a wit from the start, defending herself against her father, Charlie, a career Army officer whose inane, often drunken remarks — his “kiddin’ around” — “would reduce Ron to tears.” When she proudly displays her Easter shoes, her father comments, “Christ, you could land a plane on those skis.” The torture called teasing is an underreported form of insidious soul murder for many earnest little girls. To see just how far Ron took revenge, read her collection “Love Trouble,” a compendium of such militant satire and wicked irony that it will disinhibit your serotonin without a prescription. When Steve asks his big sister if they are ever going to grow up “like Mom and Daddy,” Ron replies: “Like dy? Jeez, I hope not.” She goes on to explain that “what Daddy did is more like ... photosynthesis.” “Charlie,” Rosina says one day to her husband, “did you see this beautiful new vacuum cleaner, the Hoover?” ver?” he responds. “We got Commies taking over the railroads and you’re telling me about a goddamned vacuum cleaner?” “We should definitely get the vacuum,” Ron adds, “before Commies take over the Hoover.” Charlie remained unimpressed with his daughter’s talent and intelligence her whole life. He was that kind of dad. Young Steve engages in cruder forms of subversion, like pulling his mother aside one day and pointing to one of his frequent adolescent erections, saying: “Hey, Mom. What’s this all about?” Ron gets A’s, Steve gets D’s and F’s. He has his first beer at the age of 8, and likes it plenty. His goal is simple: “Get out of the house.” Before long he is stealing and setting fires just for “the exquisite thrill of getting away with it.” Soon Charlie is making his “On the Waterfront” proclamation: “That kid’s a bum and he’s always gonna be a bum!” That kind of dad. “Although resentment isn’t quite the same thing as having a direction in life,” Geng writes in his lucid prose, “it revved me up and gave me some torque.” He is now ready for a life of sex, crime, drugs and rock ’n’ roll. His role models: “the hipster, the hophead and the hustler.” The locales change as Geng’s capers proceed. In Paris he enjoys the whores of Rue Pigalle: “She exuded a certain confidence now that I was a repeat customer. It was as close as I’d come at that point to having my own girlfriend.” Back in the States, Geng is soon on the lam in San Francisco for hot-wiring and crashing a car with a friend while high on methedrine. After a chase by the cops, who open fire, he is arrested and spends a few months in San Bruno County Jail. Out of prison he repairs to his parents’ house in Clearwater, Fla., for a little R & R, and works at Kentucky Fried Chicken. When he’s saved enough money, he heads to New York to resume his pursuit of “serious drugs.” He has his first taste of heroin and “finally found what I was looking for ... better than sex.” Did I mention that Chet Baker is one of Geng’s idols? Now that he’s found his métier, he develops his skills in “boosting” to support his habit. He becomes famous as “Record Steve,” stealing records under his coat, as many as 20 to 30 at a time, and selling them out of shopping bags on Eighth Street. His career trajectory is regularly interrupted by jail time — three months on , 30 days on Hart Island, almost a year in Pinellas County Jail, nine months in . Eat your heart out, James Frey. Toni Bentley, a former dancer with the New York City Ballet, is the author, most recently, of “The Surrender: An Erotic Memoir.” Next Article in Books (6 of 20) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Families and Family Life Next Article in Books (6 of 20) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Basics: Seizing the Moment Faster Fashion, Cheaper Chic The Real Owner of All Those Planes Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix Wall St. Journal Editors Held News of Murdoch Bid Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/06/books/review/Miles.t.html	The Cigarette Century - Allan M. Brandt - Books - Review - New York Times Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 6, 2007 It is a familiar exchange: I step up to the counter at a convenience store and order my daily ration of Camel cigarettes, which I have been smoking since the Reagan administration and, as it happens, am smoking as I type this. Sliding the pack across the counter, the clerk — female clerks, typically; male clerks are more laissez-faire — sighs and says to me, “You know you need to quit.” My response, well honed over the years, goes like this: “I know I should quit,” I say, “but there’s one problem. I enjoy it.” On rare occasions, the clerk startles and smiles — that’s how it played out this morning — as if tickled by this forbidden admission. Far more frequently, however, I find myself at the receiving end of a uniformly bemused, pitying and faintly disgusted stare. I cannot possibly mean what I have just uttered, the stare says to me. The victim cannot confess to the crime. The cash register rings its tinny ring as the clerk slides the drawer shut and sadly wags her head. Skip to next paragraph The Rise, Fall, and Deadly Persistence of the Product That Defined America. By Allan M. Brandt. Illustrated. 600 pp. Basic Books. $36. Allan M. Brandt’s “Cigarette Century,” a fat chronicle of the rise and fall of the cigarette in the 20th century, delivers that same ruthful stare. Brandt, a professor of the history of medicine at Harvard Medical School, canvasses giant chunks of terrain here — the culture, science, politics, law and global spread of the cigarette, to cite just his section headings — without ever pausing to examine the central, vexing paradox of smoking: that in return for death, cigarettes give pleasure. Justifiable pleasure? Of course not. What Kant deemed “negative pleasure”? Perhaps. But pleasure nonetheless. Smokers, in Brandt’s view, are midwifed by an array of potent forces: ferocious tobacco advertising; peer pressure; cultural aesthetics (i.e., the imitable artfulness of Humphrey Bogart cupping a smoke); the addictive properties of nicotine; the tobacco industry’s pernicious campaign to obfuscate the perils of smoking; youthful longing for easy rebellion; and even, as evidenced by the boom in smoking after World War I, the scalding stress of trench warfare. But the cigarette itself, outside of its chemical components, gets scant credit. “One must not forget,” Jean Cocteau once wrote, “that the pack of cigarettes, the ceremony that extracts them, lights the lighter, and that strange cloud which penetrates us and which our nostrils puff, have with powerful charms seduced and conquered the world.” To be immune to those charms is naturally Brandt’s prerogative. To refuse or fail to acknowledge them in a history of the cigarette, however, is more problematic, and suggests the question: Is a cigarette sometimes just a cigarette? Or does the totality of its meanings — up to and including its flavors, fragrance and neurological kick — stem from a cultural moment, a peculiar and corporate-engineered hinge in time and place? “It seems striking,” Brandt writes, “that a product of such little utility, ephemeral in its very nature, could be such an encompassing vehicle for understanding the past. But the cigarette permeates 20th-century America as smoke fills an enclosed room.” The cigarette came of age with, and thanks to, dramatic advances in manufacturing technology and marketing tactics, and was further helped along by the tectonic shifts in consumer culture and social mores that followed World War I. It was, pun intended, a breathtakingly fast rise. In 1904, cigarettes accounted for only 5 percent of the domestic tobacco market. By midcentury, nearly half of all adults smoked. Cigarettes were ubiquitous, with ashtrays freckling every room: nurseries, doctors’ offices, TV news studios. The tobacco industry — a bad seed from the beginning, as Brandt shows (as early as 1908, the American Tobacco Company was battling the feds, this time over antitrust regulations) — nurtured and exploited that ubiquity. If the health hazards of smoking were not “proven” until midcentury, they were readily apparent. Yet scientists, early on, found themselves lumped together with antitobacco moralists in the public mind, which imbued their cautions with the shrill taint of Victorian finger-wagging. Carcinogenesis sounded a lot like degeneracy, and America was happy to blow a collective stream of smoke in the face of that charge. ll that changed in the early 1950s, when the causal relationship between smoking and lung cancer was finally “proven,” in scientific terms, and more formally “alleged,” in tobacco industry parlance. Faced with damning evidence, the industry devised a cagey defense: rather than denying the harms of smoking, it insisted there were “two sides” to the story, and corralled skeptical scientists — perennially available on any subject — to rebut or at least cast doubt upon the medical consensus. Journalists were urged to consider “fairness” and “balance” in covering the invented “controversy.” The industry’s public relations arm, Brandt writes, was “adept at taking a single dissenter and assuring widespread media coverage of his views.” This purposeful agnosticism, which served the tobacco industry well, will sound eerily familiar to anyone following the “debate” — another case in which a few pedigreed skeptics, whose views align with those of a powerful industry, are framing consensus as controversy. “The industry,” Brandt writes, “insisted on scientific criteria that it knew full well could not be attained then, or ever.” From this point on, “The Cigarette Century” morphs into combat history, into a meticulous record of the myriad courtroom clashes that defined the life of the cigarette in the latter years of the 20th century. Brandt’s admirable skills as a researcher and analyst are in full flower here, though readers searching for courtroom drama and more human scale should refer to Richard Kluger’s -winning “Ashes to Ashes,” a silkier, smoother narrative that tracked the tobacco wars up through the mid-1990s. If the tobacco trials have yet to extinguish the industry, as antismoking advocates have been hoping for years, they’ve certainly delivered mortal wounds — most effectively, perhaps, in the discovery process, which unearthed decades’ worth of slimy industry documents (including one industry idea Brandt quotes, from a 1987 brainstorming session, to deal with health concerns: “Create a bigger monster (AIDS)”) that has made every cigarette purchase since feel like a deal with the devil, on top of a dance with death. Additional tort action, and ramped-up regulation now that tobacco support has become more of a political liability than an advantage, seems likely to further chip away the number of domestic smokers until just a few of us will remain, huddled in the rain 500 feet away from any possible contact with others, impoverished from taxes and life insurance premiums and the inability to pass a nicotine-finding blood test in order to get a job. Yet the essential conundrum, succinctly stated in a 1961 tobacco-industry memo, will remain: “There are biologically active materials present in cigarette tobacco. These are: a) cancer causing; b) cancer promoting; c) poisonous; d) stimulating, pleasurable and flavorful.” Jonathan Miles contributes the “Shaken and Stirred” column to the Sunday Styles section of The Times. Next Article in Books (2 of 20) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. 'Goodnight Moon,' Smokeless Version 'The Least Secretive Life' Next Article in Books (2 of 20) &#x00bb; A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/06/books/review/Kunkel.t.html?ex=1336104000&en=43445b8c737aa45e&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Nirvana: The Biography - Everett True - Books - Review - New York Times Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 6, 2007 Until I received the assignment to review Everett True’s “Nirvana,” I hadn’t listened to the band much in recent years. In this I suspect I’m like most of us who were in our late teens or early 20s when Nirvana’s singer, songwriter and guitarist, Kurt Cobain, died in April 1994, hardly two and a half years after the release of “Nevermind.” There was so much hype — inevitable word — over Nirvana and its demise that the music later seemed somehow buried beneath the ephemera it occasioned. It became almost embarrassing to listen, in one’s dorm room, to Cobain’s strangely sarcastic and inviting voice, when journalists had called him the voice of our generation. And the band’s tortured ambivalence over its tremendous popularity grew to seem sadly quaint. When “Nevermind” came out, the marketing of the Persian Gulf war as a blockbuster action film was a fresh outrage, as was the recruitment of the ’ song “Revolution” as an advertising jingle; we were not yet thoroughly familiar with the emotional indecency of commercialization. We are now four years into the gulf war’s skillfully marketed sequel, while Cobain’s widow, , has recently licensed her husband’s song “Breed” for use by a manufacturer of video games. How to listen to the anthems of the early ’90s in what are already the late ’00s? What does “Smells Like Teen Spirit” sound like when you’re in your 30s, as Kurt Cobain, dead at 27, of course will never be? Skip to next paragraph Illustrated. 636 pp. Da Capo Press. Paper, $19.95. You might hope that True would take up these questions and convincingly assess the band’s music and legacy. After all, this is not the first book to tell the story of Nirvana’s emergence “from the bowels of a redneck logger town called Aberdeen, WA,” as Cobain put it in a press release accompanying the unknown band’s first single, and the group’s achievement (to cite the same mock-grandiose document) of “success, fame and a following of millions.” Michael Azerrad’s “Come as You Are,” published in 1993 and written with Nirvana’s cooperation, provides an intimate sense of Cobain and his band mates, Dave Grohl and Krist Novoselic, even if it scants their backgrounds and minimizes Cobain’s heroin problem. Another notable piece of Nirvanology is Charles R. Cross’s “Heavier Than Heaven” (2001), an insightful and fairly well-written Cobain biography, however badly marred by the author’s deference to Courtney Love’s version of events and a fictional reconstruction of Cobain’s final hours. True might have built on the work of his precursors and distilled some insight from his own experience as the journalist who perhaps spent the most time with the band. Yet for something billed as the band’s definitive biography, “Nirvana” is an oddly marginal and sketchy production. The joyous, pounding attack of Grohl’s drumming and Novoselic’s slinky, insinuating bass lines were as important to Nirvana’s sound as what the band’s first producer accurately called Cobain’s “cool scream.” However, neither Grohl nor Novoselic consented to be interviewed, and True has fallen out with his old friend Courtney Love, the actor, musician and celebrity provocateur Cobain married in 1992. “Nirvana” consists largely of long, apparently unedited chunks of interviews with bit players in the band’s story, and True hardly attempts to adjudicate among competing points of view, to assign relative importance to different events or even to determine whether Nirvana really merits the special treatment of a 600-and-some-page biography. “Why would one band be favored over the other?” he asks. It’s a mystery, too, why True favors some factual considerations over others. “The first commonly agreed occurrence of a totally smashed guitar happened at Evergreen State College on Oct. 30” is his deadpan historian’s judgment. Other, more obviously important matters don’t concern him. He reproduces, seemingly in their entirety, long articles he once wrote for the British magazine Melody Maker, but doesn’t so much as quote from Cobain’s suicide note. And then there is the question, uncomfortably difficult to dismiss, whether Cobain composed a suicide note at all, rather than a draft of a goodbye letter to fans (Nirvana was on the verge of announcing its breakup) later doctored by another hand. Max Wallace and Ian Halperin’s “Love & Death” (2005) is a disquieting collation of the circumstantial and forensic evidence suggesting Cobain was murdered, and True might at least have considered the persistent questions hanging over this most famous of rock ’n’ roll suicides. The one outstanding virtue of True’s book is his close attention to musical politics, especially Cobain’s ambivalent relationship to the puritanically anticommercial, do-it-yourself ethos he discovered among the musicians of Olympia, Wash., where he lived for several years. “Hello, we’re major-label corporate rock sellouts,” Cobain declared to a crowd in early 1991, not long after the band signed with the Company; and Nirvana could never decide whether its success counted as victory or appeasement. What True appreciates most about Nirvana appears to be its tolerant, feminist sexual politics, unusual in a band owing such a debt to heavy metal. Cobain and Novoselic French-kissed on “Saturday Night Live” (something NBC edited out of rebroadcasts of the show), and Cobain was never shy in interviews about expressing his admiration for women. It introduced something new to the world of crunching, Black Sabbath-esque riffs when he wore a prom dress to MTV’s “Headbangers Ball” — after all, he winningly explained, it was a ball. And yet the power of Nirvana’s music had little to do with the promise of, in True’s words, a “less macho, more female-led” rock ’n’ roll. As an erotic politician (in Jim Morrison’s memorable definition of the rock star), Kurt Cobain believed in men and women getting along. As a songwriter, he was more preoccupied with the difficulty of getting along with himself. Benjamin Kunkel is an editor of n+1 magazine and the author of the novel “Indecision.” Next Article in Books (5 of 20) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Pretty on the Inside Smells Like Civic Spirit MEDIA; Nine Years After Cobain's Death, Big Sales for All Things Nirvana THE POP LIFE; By Kurt Cobain, Re: Himself Next Article in Books (5 of 20) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Basics: Seizing the Moment Faster Fashion, Cheaper Chic The Real Owner of All Those Planes Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix Wall St. Journal Editors Held News of Murdoch Bid Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Forever Fab Beatles Commemorative Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/06/books/review/Harris.t.html?ex=1336104000&en=eb0d48826c104448&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	The Joy of Drinking - Barbara Holland - Books - Review - New York Times Sign In to E-Mail or Save This By ROBERT R. HARRIS Published: May 6, 2007 It’s odd the books people get asked to review. Take this one, a carefree history of our long love affair with drinking. I have no training as a historian, just some slight experience on both sides of bars. And perhaps an exaggerated reputation for disparaging today’s ubiquitous alcohol-free business lunches. Barbara Holland, though, might empathize. She reminds us that in 1787, two days before their work was done, the 55 delegates to the Constitutional Convention “adjourned to a tavern for some rest, and according to the bill they drank 54 bottles of Madeira, 60 bottles of claret, 8 of whiskey, 22 of port, 8 of hard cider and 7 bowls of punch so large that, it was said, ducks could swim around in them. Then they went back to work and finished founding the new Republic.” Note the 55 delegates and 54 bottles of Madeira. Which founder was slacking? Skip to next paragraph THE JOY OF DRINKING 150 pp. Bloomsbury. $14.95. First Chapter: ‘The Joy of Drinking’ But “The Joy of Drinking” begins way before “our Revolution was born and raised in taverns.” It goes back some 10,000 years to when society, or what there was of it, went agricultural. Crops got planted and harvested, and some rotted and fermented, forming a liquid you could drink. The party began. Holland cites Faulkner as observing that civilization began with fermentation, and he’d have known. Drink, she writes, became “the social glue of the human race. Probably in the beginning we could explain ourselves to our close family members with grunts, muttered syllables, gestures, slaps and punches. Then when the neighbors started dropping in to help harvest, stomp, stir and drink the bounty of the land, after we’d softened our natural suspicious hostility with a few stiff ones, we had to think up some more nuanced communication, like words. From there it was a short step to grammar, civil law, religion, history and ‘The Whiffenpoof Song.’ ” And she sketches the evolution of this process around the globe: in China, India, Africa, the Islamic world (!), Europe and the Americas, though her reliance on Marco Polo as a source may raise an actual historian’s eyebrows. Beer was always big, and may even be healthy. The American Journal of Clinical Nutrition, Holland writes, “claims that a moderate beer drinker — whatever that means — swallows 11 percent of his dietary protein needs, 12 percent of the carbohydrates, 9 percent of essential phosphorus, 7 percent of his riboflavin, and 5 percent of niacin. Should he go on to immoderate beer drinking, he becomes a walking vitamin pill.” That last is an assertion upon which any given issue of Science Times will be sure to pounce. Still, I’ll take it, having long since abandoned hope of someone coming up with any health benefits of smoking. Holland slowly savors what E. B. White called, in that genteel New Yorker way, “the golden companionship of the tavern.” She notes that “in a proper pub everyone there is potentially, if not a lifelong friend, at least someone to lure into an argument about foreign policy or,” God help us all, “the Red Sox.” And she knows that “to extract the fullest flavor of our drinking house, we needed to spend serious evening time there, slowly coming to know the bartender and the regulars, their joys and sorrows.” But becoming a “regular” isn’t as easy as “Cheers” may have made it seem; a decent bar’s culture is tough to crack. Coffeehouses, it must be admitted, have often vied with bars for our affections. In Shakespeare’s day, Holland writes, “coffeehouses sprang up to challenge the taverns. The authorities were suspicious of the whole thing and sent spies to eavesdrop. In the taverns all was amiable and easy, but the coffeehouses were cauldrons of edgy malcontents.” Throw in some iPods and wired soccer moms and you could be at Starbucks. Holland traces the origin of the toast and of settling lawsuits “out of court” (in colonial America taverns were built next to courthouses, and opposing parties would go next door to talk things over). She describes the mechanics of hangovers and their cures and elaborates on the ceremony of mixing martinis. James Bond, she argues, was “the wave of the future, the drinker not as merrymaker,” personified by Nick and Nora Charles of “Thin Man” fame, but the drinker “as expert, authority, specialist.” And as you might guess, Holland, who has written a dozen or so previous books, has done impressive research on a subject dear to some of us — writers who drink. Mentioned are Johnson and Boswell, John Donne (!), Byron, , Evelyn Waugh, Hemingway and Fitzgerald, Dorothy Parker and Robert Benchley, , Edmund Wilson, Thomas Wolfe, Hart Crane, Malcolm Lowry, , John O’Hara, Kingsley Amis. And, of course, Dylan Thomas, who once defined an alcoholic as “someone you don’t like who drinks as much as you do.” Holland has a light, winsome touch and is always funny. Here she is on making a martini: he “poured the gin into a pitcher and then nodded ritually at the bottle of vermouth across the room.” She tells us that even the National Institutes of Health admits that what it calls “alcohol readministration” alleviates the symptoms of both alcohol withdrawal and hangovers, and notes that “ ‘readministraton’ seems to mean hair of the dog.” She quotes the Puritan minister Increase Mather — “Drink is in itself a good Creature of God, and to be received with thankfulness, but the abuse of drink is from Satan, the wine is from God, but the Drunkard is from the Devil” — and declares his words “an early version of our incessant ‘moderation’ sermons, with only a pint or two dividing heaven from hell.” s much as Holland enjoys romping down London’s Gin Lane and through America’s Jazz Age and Prohibition, she can’t abide our current era of moderation. Hip urbanites, she writes, “turned drinking in moderation into a high-class avocation.” Wine tours caught on and microbreweries arrived. The devotees “aren’t drinkers. They’re connoisseurs and critics, priests of ritual, sniffers and tasters, discerning scholars scowling thoughtfully into their glass. Fun has nothing to do with it. ... In the metropolitan haunts of the highly sophisticated, the cocktail is no longer an instrument of friendship but a competitive fashion statement, or one-upmanship.” Before vodka, which is pretty much tasteless, “hit our shores,” she says, “much of what you put in your drink had a flavor of its own. Who put chocolate syrup in their rum or produced lemon-flavored Scotch?” Then distillers started flavoring vodka with fruit — oranges, apples, raspberries, blueberries — and hip urbanites lapped it up. Now some of the emperor’s children among us are inhaling it. Holland, who lives in Virginia’s Blue Ridge Mountains, certainly doesn’t end with recipes for foo-foo drinks. She provides hints on making your own spirits, like applejack and elderberry wine, and instructions for building, yes, a still. Glancing at the diagram, I’d advise being sober if you try. Robert R. Harris is the deputy editor of the Book Review. Next Article in Books (1 of 20) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. THE POUR; Settling In, Glass In Hand, To Read Of Wine SHAKEN AND STIRRED; The House of Muse Next Article in Books (1 of 20) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Basics: Seizing the Moment Faster Fashion, Cheaper Chic The Real Owner of All Those Planes Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix Wall St. Journal Editors Held News of Murdoch Bid Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/pages/books/index.html	Books - The New York Times Book Review Books of the Times Reviewed by JANET MASLIN “Animal, Vegetable, Miracle” is a wonderfully neighborly account of stunt eating. Books of the Times Reviewed by WILLIAM GRIMES Lynne Olson’s book is a spirited, propulsive work about Neville Chamberlain’s downfall and Winston Churchill’s installation as British prime minister. Three Writers of Nonfiction Are Honored Robert Whitaker was among this year’s winners of the Lukas Prize Project Awards, which recognize excellence in nonfiction writing. Books of The Times Reviewed by MICHIKO KAKUTANI In “Falling Man,” Don DeLillo examines 9/11 and its aftermath as experienced by a self-absorbed couple. Love, Honor, Cherish and Buy In her new book on the American wedding industry, Rebecca Mead speaks on the garish events that weddings have become, and what it tells us about ourselves. Classic Book About America’s Indians Gains a Few Flourishes as a Film To broaden appeal for a television version of “Bury My Heart at Wounded Knee,” the 1971 classic by Dee Brown, HBO rearranged people and facts. Author and Surfer to Share in Proceeds of Waves Book Susan Casey is hiring Laird Hamilton, one of best known celebrity surfers, to help her write about the science of giant waves. Books of the Times Reviewed by MICHIKO KAKUTANI Richard Flanagan’s stunning new novel gives us a world headed toward irredeemable disaster. 'The Joy of Drinking' Reviewed by ROBERT R. HARRIS A history of our long love affair with drinking. By ALLAN M. BRANDT Reviewed by JONATHAN MILES The rise and fall of the cigarette in American culture. 'Send: The Essential Guide to Email for Office and Home' By DAVID SHIPLEY AND WILL SCHWALBE Reviewed by DAVE BARRY There are a lot of ways you can go very, very wrong with your e-mail. 'Teenage: The Creation of Youth Culture' Reviewed by CAMILLE PAGLIA How adolescence was invented, starting in the 19th century. Reviewed by BENJAMIN KUNKEL Nirvana’s power owed a lot to its self-divisions: tortured lyrics, catchy tunes. Reviewed by TONI BENTLEY Steve Geng’s memoir of addiction is also an elegy to his sister, a writer for The New Yorker who died in 1997. 'Bigger Deal: A Year on the New Poker Circuit' Reviewed by SUSAN CASEY Since Anthony Holden first wrote about pro poker a decade ago, the game has exploded. 'Later, at the Bar: A Novel in Stories' Reviewed by DANIELLE TRUSSONI A novel in stories concerns an upstate tavern and its regulars. ‘The Joy of Drinking’ “William Faulkner, who knew a thing or two about it, observed that civilization begins with fermentation.” By DAVID SHIPLEY and WILL SCHWALBE “So what is it about email? Why do we send so many electronic messages that we never should have written?” ‘Bigger Deal: A Year Inside the Poker Boom’ “The 2006 prize pool of more than $150 million made the thirty-seventh World Series of Poker . . . the biggest sporting event in the history of the planet.” Dr. Atkins' Diet Revolution told people they could eat all the fatty foods they wanted as long as they kept a tight rein on their carbohydrates. ” Correction: Caption in ‘The Grand Surprise’ Review from the past 7 days enter keyword or date e.g. April 21, 2001 'The Yiddish Policemen’s Union,' This week: Robert R. Harris, the deputy editor of the Book Review, on “The Joy of Drinking,” David Shipley, the co-author of “Send”; and Jon Savage, the author of “Teenage.” Dwight Garner, senior editor, is the host. This Week's Book Review Podcast ( Why Not the Worst? Bad books are an essential weapon in the struggle against the tyranny of good taste. Reviewed by MARILYN STASIO In Mark Mills’s second historical mystery, a young British scholar unearths the sad, shocking secrets of a Renaissance garden. The Funny Pages | Sunday Serial ‘Gentlemen of the Road’ This week, the conclusion: On following the road to one’s destiny, with the usual intrusions of violence and grace. The 10 Best Books of 2006 100 Notable Books of 2006 Best American Fiction Survey Nobel Prize in Literature Book Review Editor Responds Sign Up for the Books Update Receive a selective overview of new book reviews and features every Sunday. SEARCH BOOK REVIEWS SINCE 1981: MOST POPULAR - BOOKS Love, Honor, Cherish and Buy Books of the Times: Because It&#8217;s Good for You, That&#8217;s Why Books of the Times: In Churchill&#8217;s Rise to Power, a Rough Path of Rebellion Essay: Why Not the Worst? Three Writers of Nonfiction Are Honored Books of The Times: A Man, a Woman and a Day of Terror A Prince of Pulp, Legit at Last Go to Complete List » Book Not Ready for Print? You Can Whip Up an Audiobook for a Podcast for Now Love, Honor, Cherish and Buy Why Not the Worst? The Young and the Restless A Prince of Pulp, Legit at Last Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Continuous coverage of business news. Photos, fine art, books and more. Start your 30-day free trial of Times Reader today. Looking for a job? What movie should you see? The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/06/books/review/Harris.t.html	The Joy of Drinking - Barbara Holland - Books - Review - New York Times Sign In to E-Mail or Save This By ROBERT R. HARRIS Published: May 6, 2007 It’s odd the books people get asked to review. Take this one, a carefree history of our long love affair with drinking. I have no training as a historian, just some slight experience on both sides of bars. And perhaps an exaggerated reputation for disparaging today’s ubiquitous alcohol-free business lunches. Barbara Holland, though, might empathize. She reminds us that in 1787, two days before their work was done, the 55 delegates to the Constitutional Convention “adjourned to a tavern for some rest, and according to the bill they drank 54 bottles of Madeira, 60 bottles of claret, 8 of whiskey, 22 of port, 8 of hard cider and 7 bowls of punch so large that, it was said, ducks could swim around in them. Then they went back to work and finished founding the new Republic.” Note the 55 delegates and 54 bottles of Madeira. Which founder was slacking? Skip to next paragraph THE JOY OF DRINKING 150 pp. Bloomsbury. $14.95. First Chapter: ‘The Joy of Drinking’ But “The Joy of Drinking” begins way before “our Revolution was born and raised in taverns.” It goes back some 10,000 years to when society, or what there was of it, went agricultural. Crops got planted and harvested, and some rotted and fermented, forming a liquid you could drink. The party began. Holland cites Faulkner as observing that civilization began with fermentation, and he’d have known. Drink, she writes, became “the social glue of the human race. Probably in the beginning we could explain ourselves to our close family members with grunts, muttered syllables, gestures, slaps and punches. Then when the neighbors started dropping in to help harvest, stomp, stir and drink the bounty of the land, after we’d softened our natural suspicious hostility with a few stiff ones, we had to think up some more nuanced communication, like words. From there it was a short step to grammar, civil law, religion, history and ‘The Whiffenpoof Song.’ ” And she sketches the evolution of this process around the globe: in China, India, Africa, the Islamic world (!), Europe and the Americas, though her reliance on Marco Polo as a source may raise an actual historian’s eyebrows. Beer was always big, and may even be healthy. The American Journal of Clinical Nutrition, Holland writes, “claims that a moderate beer drinker — whatever that means — swallows 11 percent of his dietary protein needs, 12 percent of the carbohydrates, 9 percent of essential phosphorus, 7 percent of his riboflavin, and 5 percent of niacin. Should he go on to immoderate beer drinking, he becomes a walking vitamin pill.” That last is an assertion upon which any given issue of Science Times will be sure to pounce. Still, I’ll take it, having long since abandoned hope of someone coming up with any health benefits of smoking. Holland slowly savors what E. B. White called, in that genteel New Yorker way, “the golden companionship of the tavern.” She notes that “in a proper pub everyone there is potentially, if not a lifelong friend, at least someone to lure into an argument about foreign policy or,” God help us all, “the Red Sox.” And she knows that “to extract the fullest flavor of our drinking house, we needed to spend serious evening time there, slowly coming to know the bartender and the regulars, their joys and sorrows.” But becoming a “regular” isn’t as easy as “Cheers” may have made it seem; a decent bar’s culture is tough to crack. Coffeehouses, it must be admitted, have often vied with bars for our affections. In Shakespeare’s day, Holland writes, “coffeehouses sprang up to challenge the taverns. The authorities were suspicious of the whole thing and sent spies to eavesdrop. In the taverns all was amiable and easy, but the coffeehouses were cauldrons of edgy malcontents.” Throw in some iPods and wired soccer moms and you could be at Starbucks. Holland traces the origin of the toast and of settling lawsuits “out of court” (in colonial America taverns were built next to courthouses, and opposing parties would go next door to talk things over). She describes the mechanics of hangovers and their cures and elaborates on the ceremony of mixing martinis. James Bond, she argues, was “the wave of the future, the drinker not as merrymaker,” personified by Nick and Nora Charles of “Thin Man” fame, but the drinker “as expert, authority, specialist.” And as you might guess, Holland, who has written a dozen or so previous books, has done impressive research on a subject dear to some of us — writers who drink. Mentioned are Johnson and Boswell, John Donne (!), Byron, , Evelyn Waugh, Hemingway and Fitzgerald, Dorothy Parker and Robert Benchley, , Edmund Wilson, Thomas Wolfe, Hart Crane, Malcolm Lowry, , John O’Hara, Kingsley Amis. And, of course, Dylan Thomas, who once defined an alcoholic as “someone you don’t like who drinks as much as you do.” Holland has a light, winsome touch and is always funny. Here she is on making a martini: he “poured the gin into a pitcher and then nodded ritually at the bottle of vermouth across the room.” She tells us that even the National Institutes of Health admits that what it calls “alcohol readministration” alleviates the symptoms of both alcohol withdrawal and hangovers, and notes that “ ‘readministraton’ seems to mean hair of the dog.” She quotes the Puritan minister Increase Mather — “Drink is in itself a good Creature of God, and to be received with thankfulness, but the abuse of drink is from Satan, the wine is from God, but the Drunkard is from the Devil” — and declares his words “an early version of our incessant ‘moderation’ sermons, with only a pint or two dividing heaven from hell.” s much as Holland enjoys romping down London’s Gin Lane and through America’s Jazz Age and Prohibition, she can’t abide our current era of moderation. Hip urbanites, she writes, “turned drinking in moderation into a high-class avocation.” Wine tours caught on and microbreweries arrived. The devotees “aren’t drinkers. They’re connoisseurs and critics, priests of ritual, sniffers and tasters, discerning scholars scowling thoughtfully into their glass. Fun has nothing to do with it. ... In the metropolitan haunts of the highly sophisticated, the cocktail is no longer an instrument of friendship but a competitive fashion statement, or one-upmanship.” Before vodka, which is pretty much tasteless, “hit our shores,” she says, “much of what you put in your drink had a flavor of its own. Who put chocolate syrup in their rum or produced lemon-flavored Scotch?” Then distillers started flavoring vodka with fruit — oranges, apples, raspberries, blueberries — and hip urbanites lapped it up. Now some of the emperor’s children among us are inhaling it. Holland, who lives in Virginia’s Blue Ridge Mountains, certainly doesn’t end with recipes for foo-foo drinks. She provides hints on making your own spirits, like applejack and elderberry wine, and instructions for building, yes, a still. Glancing at the diagram, I’d advise being sober if you try. Robert R. Harris is the deputy editor of the Book Review. Next Article in Books (1 of 20) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. THE POUR; Settling In, Glass In Hand, To Read Of Wine SHAKEN AND STIRRED; The House of Muse Next Article in Books (1 of 20) &#x00bb; A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/pages/books/index.html?partner=rssnyt	Books - The New York Times Book Review Books of the Times Reviewed by JANET MASLIN “Animal, Vegetable, Miracle” is a wonderfully neighborly account of stunt eating. Books of the Times Reviewed by WILLIAM GRIMES Lynne Olson’s book is a spirited, propulsive work about Neville Chamberlain’s downfall and Winston Churchill’s installation as British prime minister. Three Writers of Nonfiction Are Honored Robert Whitaker was among this year’s winners of the Lukas Prize Project Awards, which recognize excellence in nonfiction writing. Books of The Times Reviewed by MICHIKO KAKUTANI In “Falling Man,” Don DeLillo examines 9/11 and its aftermath as experienced by a self-absorbed couple. Love, Honor, Cherish and Buy In her new book on the American wedding industry, Rebecca Mead speaks on the garish events that weddings have become, and what it tells us about ourselves. Classic Book About America’s Indians Gains a Few Flourishes as a Film To broaden appeal for a television version of “Bury My Heart at Wounded Knee,” the 1971 classic by Dee Brown, HBO rearranged people and facts. Author and Surfer to Share in Proceeds of Waves Book Susan Casey is hiring Laird Hamilton, one of best known celebrity surfers, to help her write about the science of giant waves. Books of the Times Reviewed by MICHIKO KAKUTANI Richard Flanagan’s stunning new novel gives us a world headed toward irredeemable disaster. 'The Joy of Drinking' Reviewed by ROBERT R. HARRIS A history of our long love affair with drinking. By ALLAN M. BRANDT Reviewed by JONATHAN MILES The rise and fall of the cigarette in American culture. 'Send: The Essential Guide to Email for Office and Home' By DAVID SHIPLEY AND WILL SCHWALBE Reviewed by DAVE BARRY There are a lot of ways you can go very, very wrong with your e-mail. 'Teenage: The Creation of Youth Culture' Reviewed by CAMILLE PAGLIA How adolescence was invented, starting in the 19th century. Reviewed by BENJAMIN KUNKEL Nirvana’s power owed a lot to its self-divisions: tortured lyrics, catchy tunes. Reviewed by TONI BENTLEY Steve Geng’s memoir of addiction is also an elegy to his sister, a writer for The New Yorker who died in 1997. 'Bigger Deal: A Year on the New Poker Circuit' Reviewed by SUSAN CASEY Since Anthony Holden first wrote about pro poker a decade ago, the game has exploded. 'Later, at the Bar: A Novel in Stories' Reviewed by DANIELLE TRUSSONI A novel in stories concerns an upstate tavern and its regulars. ‘The Joy of Drinking’ “William Faulkner, who knew a thing or two about it, observed that civilization begins with fermentation.” By DAVID SHIPLEY and WILL SCHWALBE “So what is it about email? Why do we send so many electronic messages that we never should have written?” ‘Bigger Deal: A Year Inside the Poker Boom’ “The 2006 prize pool of more than $150 million made the thirty-seventh World Series of Poker . . . the biggest sporting event in the history of the planet.” Dr. Atkins' Diet Revolution told people they could eat all the fatty foods they wanted as long as they kept a tight rein on their carbohydrates. ” Correction: Caption in ‘The Grand Surprise’ Review from the past 7 days enter keyword or date e.g. April 21, 2001 'The Yiddish Policemen’s Union,' This week: Robert R. Harris, the deputy editor of the Book Review, on “The Joy of Drinking,” David Shipley, the co-author of “Send”; and Jon Savage, the author of “Teenage.” Dwight Garner, senior editor, is the host. This Week's Book Review Podcast ( Why Not the Worst? Bad books are an essential weapon in the struggle against the tyranny of good taste. Reviewed by MARILYN STASIO In Mark Mills’s second historical mystery, a young British scholar unearths the sad, shocking secrets of a Renaissance garden. The Funny Pages | Sunday Serial ‘Gentlemen of the Road’ This week, the conclusion: On following the road to one’s destiny, with the usual intrusions of violence and grace. The 10 Best Books of 2006 100 Notable Books of 2006 Best American Fiction Survey Nobel Prize in Literature Book Review Editor Responds Sign Up for the Books Update Receive a selective overview of new book reviews and features every Sunday. SEARCH BOOK REVIEWS SINCE 1981: MOST POPULAR - BOOKS Love, Honor, Cherish and Buy Books of the Times: Because It&#8217;s Good for You, That&#8217;s Why Books of the Times: In Churchill&#8217;s Rise to Power, a Rough Path of Rebellion Essay: Why Not the Worst? Three Writers of Nonfiction Are Honored Books of The Times: A Man, a Woman and a Day of Terror A Prince of Pulp, Legit at Last Go to Complete List » Book Not Ready for Print? You Can Whip Up an Audiobook for a Podcast for Now Love, Honor, Cherish and Buy Why Not the Worst? The Young and the Restless A Prince of Pulp, Legit at Last Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Aerial View of Yankee Stadium, 2004 What’s new on Broadway? What’s new in technology? Looking to buy a new car? Photos, fine art, books and more. Post a job online today! The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/06/books/review/Barry.t.html	Send: The Essential Guide to Email for Office and Home - David Shipley and Will Schwalbe - Books - Review - New York Times Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 6, 2007 A few years back, when my son was in college, he had to mail a letter. I don’t remember the specific reason, but I do remember having a conversation with him in which he complained bitterly about the amount of work involved — finding a place where he could purchase a stamp, figuring out what kind of stamp he needed, actually writing the letter, locating an envelope, putting the letter into the envelope, having to physically leave his dormitory room to mail the envelope and so on. I grew exhausted just listening to him describe this series of arduous tasks, one coming right after another. I was glad, for my son’s sake, that he never had to live in a world — as I once did — where the only way to change channels was to walk all the way to the TV set and manually turn a knob. Skip to next paragraph The Essential Guide to Email for Office and Home. By David Shipley and Will Schwalbe. 247 pp. Alfred A. Knopf. $19.95. Unlike my son, I did not grow up with e-mail and texting, but I have come to agree with him: electronic communication is superior to the old-fashioned paper kind. I do almost all of my communicating by e-mail. I’ve been known to e-mail people who were literally standing next to me, which I know sounds crazy, because at that distance I could easily call them on my cellphone. But I prefer e-mail, because it’s such an effective way of getting information to somebody without running the risk of becoming involved in human conversation. I’ve become so dependent on e-mail that I sometimes wonder how we ever got by without it. Imagine, for example, how useful it would have been for Paul Revere. Instead of having to climb onto a horse in the middle of the night and ride through Massachusetts spreading the alarm, he could have simply whipped out his , fired off a quick message to the patriots in Lexington and Concord, then gone to sleep (unless he also had TiVo). Of course there might have been problems. Since Revere was typing with his thumbs, his e-mail probably would have said something like, “teh nritish are cming.” As a result the recipients might not have grasped the urgency of the message. The Concord patriots might have assumed it was mainly intended for the Lexington patriots, while Lexington might have assumed Concord was going to handle it, and we would still be British subjects today. I’m not saying that would be a bad thing; I’m just saying it was not what Revere meant to accomplish. E-mail, for all its efficiency, often fails to achieve its intended result; a vague or carelessly worded message can cause major problems — personal, legal and financial — for senders and receivers. Helping you avoid these problems is the goal of “Send,” an informative, entertaining, thorough and thoughtful book. The authors are media veterans — David Shipley is deputy editorial page editor of The New York Times; Will Schwalbe is editor in chief of Hyperion Books — with extensive, and not always positive, experience sending and receiving e-mail. They summarize their essential message in two rules: “Think before you send” and “Send e-mail you would like to receive.” These rules may seem obvious, but both are deceptively easy to break in our rapid-fire, multitasking world. Many of us, especially if we have handheld e-mail devices, routinely process e-mail while engaging in other activities such as walking, talking, eating and even (you know who you are) driving. I am not proud of this, but I have processed e-mail while accompanying my 6-year-old daughter on the “Small World” ride at World. These are not ideal conditions for thoughtfulness. It’s impossible to concentrate fully on your e-mail when you’re distracted, especially by animated dolls shrieking about international understanding. You’re going to get careless; you’re going to make mistakes in both content and tone. And there are many, many mistakes to be made. In “Send,” Shipley and Schwalbe describe in detail the alarming array of ways you can botch e-mail even before you start writing the message. These include using a misleading or meaningless subject (“Re: Re: Re:”); addressing the e-mail to the wrong recipients, or too many of them; putting somebody in the “To” list who should be a “Cc” or vice versa; and misusing the sneaky “Bcc” and “Forward” commands, which can easily cause a confidential message to become very public indeed. The authors also touch on a pet peeve of mine: people who abuse the “Reply All” command. Perhaps you are one of them. You receive a message addressed to many recipients — often a much-recycled joke, story, list, urban myth, etc. There are millions of these floating around; many of us simply delete them unread. But you, the “Reply All” abuser, read it and decide to respond with some clever comment of your own (such as “LOL”). And instead of hitting “Reply,” which would inflict your reply only on the sender, you hit “Reply All,” thereby forcing everybody on the recipient list to receive, and delete, yet another useless piece of e-mail. Please do not take this personally, “Reply All” people, but: everybody hates you. We hate you almost as much as we hate the people who mass-mail this Internet sludge in the first place. Dave Barry's most recent book is “Dave Barry’s Money Secrets, Like: Why Is There a Giant Eyeball on the Dollar?” Next Article in Books (3 of 20) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. THE 6th ANNUAL YEAR IN IDEAS; Literary Spam THE FUNNY PAGES: III: SUNDAY SERIAL; The Outlook: Chapter 4: A Threatening Message ESSAY; Literary Letters, Lost In Cyberspace Next Article in Books (3 of 20) &#x00bb; A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Frida Kahlo and Diego Rivera, 1930. Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/06/books/review/Paglia.t.html	Teenage: The Creation of Youth Culture - Jon Savage - Books - Review - New York Times The Young and the Restless Fans wait for a glimpse of Frank Sinatra, Los Angeles, 1944. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 6, 2007 When did teenage angst and arrogance begin? Many baby boomers, still fighting over the legacy of the 1960s as they lurch toward retirement, think of themselves as products of the rock ’n’ roll rebellion that shattered the bourgeois proprieties of the 1950s. Chronicled in song and witnessed by the new electronic media, the impudent saga of the ’60s counterculture seemed unique. Skip to next paragraph The Creation of Youth Culture. Illustrated. 549 pp. Viking. $29.95. Jon Savage’s massive new book, “Teenage: The Creation of Youth Culture,” provides the prequel. There has in fact been wave after wave of youthful defiance — Savage begins his study in the 19th century — whether idealistic or hedonistic or both. The author of “England’s Dreaming: Anarchy, Sex Pistols, Punk Rock and Beyond,” Savage seems more at home with popular culture than with the fine arts. Hence the material in “Teenage” on ragtime, swing and the movies is stronger than that on modernist painters and poets. Savage traces his interest in generational insurrection to his childhood in the tranquil London suburbs of the 1950s and ’60s. His father was a World War II veteran, and the legacy of that war was still visible in the bombed-out districts of England’s major cities. Savage feels that the “unresolved horror” of the war period “informed the extreme manifestations of youth culture” in which he “thoroughly immersed” himself during the 1960s and ’70s. “Teenage” takes a while to hit its stride. The first chapter awkwardly interweaves the journal of Marie Bashkirtseff (a Russian-born painter who died of tuberculosis at the age of 25 in Paris in 1884) with the grisly crimes of a 15-year-old serial child murderer, Jesse Pomeroy, who was jailed in 1874 in Massachusetts. This strained pairing, with its manufactured shock, was all too typical of pretentious academic books in postmodernist cultural studies in the late 1980s and ’90s. Worse, the chapter ends with a whiplash-inducing jump backward to the late 18th century of Rousseau and Goethe — the crucible of youth-powered Romanticism that should have been front and center at the start. Given this book’s sympathy to every modern glimmer of homosexuality, it is strange that there is no discussion of the ancient Greeks’ glorification of youth, which was revived by Italian Renaissance artists like Donatello and Michelangelo. But once it gets going, “Teenage” becomes compulsive reading. Savage parallels the “militarist vision for youth” promoted by newly industrial and aggressively nationalist Germany in the 1870s and ’80s to the “cult of masculinity” and bullying suppression of individuality embodied in team sports in elite British schools, which shaped boys for imperial service. Savage amusingly juxtaposes the earnest social prototype of the “muscular Christian” with the capricious iconoclasm of Arthur Rimbaud and . Missing, however, is the Romantic lineage of these writers in Théophile Gautier and other aesthetes : not everything in literature should be interpreted as a direct response to current events or social conditions. The portrait of Wilde is distorted in treating him only as a decadent and an oppressed gay outcast. Wilde’s success as a writer of stage comedies, as well as a bon vivant who catered to the elite, is ignored. Furthermore, when Savage says that “Wilde’s influence over the young was a central issue” at his two trials and that he was accused of “sodomy with 12 youths,” the running theme of social class is oddly erased. Wilde’s violation of class borders in consorting with grooms, valets and coachmen was a major point raised against him in court — and one he did not honestly answer. Savage’s account of the “Apaches” — criminal bands of “inner urban savages” — of early-20th-century Paris is fascinating, but in rightly calling them “essentially a media creation” he neglects to trace their popular lineage. Apache dancing — a fierce psychodrama of sex war — would be introduced to film by Rudolph Valentino and would linger as an erotic trope well into the Beat era, as can be seen in Audrey Hepburn’s brilliant feminist parody of it in a Parisian nightclub in “Funny Face.” Whether L. Frank Baum’s “Wonderful Wizard of Oz,” published in 1900, should be classified as an artifact of youth culture seems questionable. Savage is on firm ground when he links Baum’s Emerald City to the White City of the World’s Columbian Exposition. But tornado-tossed Dorothy belongs to an earlier fairy-tale tradition of the questing girl-child, revived in Lewis Carroll’s spunky Alice. Camille Paglia is the university professor of humanities and media studies at the University of the Arts in Philadelphia. She is the author, most recently, of “Break, Blow, Burn.” Next Article in Books (4 of 20) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Social Conditions and Trends Next Article in Books (4 of 20) &#x00bb; A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Forever Fab Beatles Commemorative Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
