http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/technology/6645895.stm	BBC NEWS | Technology | Google searches web's dark side Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 11:37 GMT 12:37 UK E-mail this to a friend Google searches web's dark side Malicious programs are installed by visits to a booby-trapped site One in 10 web pages scrutinised by search giant Google contained malicious code that could infect a user's PC. Researchers from the firm surveyed billions of sites, subjecting 4.5 million pages to "in-depth analysis". About 450,000 were capable of launching so-called "drive-by downloads", sites that install malicious code, such as spyware, without a user's knowledge. A further 700,000 pages were thought to contain code that could compromise a user's computer, the team report. To address the problem, the researchers say the company has "started an effort to identify all web pages on the internet that could be malicious". Drive-by downloads are an increasingly common way to infect a computer or steal sensitive information. They usually consist of malicious programs that automatically install when a potential victim visits a booby-trapped website. "To entice users to install malware, adversaries employ social engineering," wrote Google researcher Niels Provos and his colleagues in a paper titled The Ghost In The Browser. Finding all the web-based infection vectors is a significant challenge and requires almost complete knowledge of the web "The user is presented with links that promise access to 'interesting' pages with explicit pornographic content, copyrighted software or media. A common example are sites that display thumbnails to adult videos." The vast majority exploit vulnerabilities in Microsoft's Internet Explorer browser to install themselves. Some downloads, such as those that alter bookmarks, install unwanted toolbars or change the start page of a browser, are an annoyance. But increasingly, criminals are using drive-bys to install keyloggers that steal login and password information. Other pieces of malicious code hijack a computer turning it into a "bot", a remotely controlled PC. Drive-by downloads represent a shift away from traditional methods of infecting a computer, such as spam and email attachments. As well as characterising the scale of the problem on the net, the Google study analysed the main methods by which criminals inject malicious code on to innocent web pages. Spam e-mails are a common way to infect a computer It found that the code was often contained in those parts of the website not designed or controlled by the website owner, such as banner adverts and widgets. Widgets are small programs that may, for example, display a calendar on a webpage or a web traffic counter. These are often downloaded form third party sites. The rise of web 2.0 and user-generated content gave criminals other channels, or vectors, of attack, it found. For example, postings in blogs and forums that contain links to images or other content could unwittingly infect a user. The study also found that gangs were able to hijack web servers, effectively taking over and infecting all of the web pages hosted on the computer. In a test, the researchers' computer was infected with 50 different pieces of malware by visiting a web page hosted on a hijacked server. The firm is now in the process of mapping the malware threat. Google, part of the StopBadware coalition, already warns users if they are about to visit a potentially harmful website, displaying a message that reads "this site may harm your computer" next to the search results. "Marking pages with a label allows users to avoid exposure to such sites and results in fewer users being infected," the researchers wrote. However, the task will not be easy, they say. "Finding all the web-based infection vectors is a significant challenge and requires almost complete knowledge of the web as a whole," they wrote. E-mail this to a friend VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS How viruses and worms attack computers Malicious code rise driven by web 25 Apr 07 | Technology Tips to help you stay safe online 07 Oct 06 | Technology Hi-tech crime: A glossary 05 Oct 06 | UK Lords offer new angle on e-crime 24 Apr 07 | Technology Google research paper (PDF) The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Google searches web's dark side Bandwidth leap for British forces Highest mobile call climb begins MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Vultures pick off human body farm Nasa unveils Hubble's successor Floyd play at Barrett tribute gig Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Two dead children were murdered Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Locals believe police are doing all they can to find Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future How will history judge Tony Blair's war record? Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/technology/6638771.stm	BBC NEWS | Technology | Spore game 'delayed until 2008' Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Wednesday, 9 May 2007, 11:47 GMT 12:47 UK E-mail this to a friend Spore game 'delayed until 2008' Spore lets players create and control their own creatures Gamers are being forced to wait to get their hands on Spore - the next creation by gaming legend Will Wright. Publisher Electronic Arts has announced that the title will now be delayed until 2008. The ambitious title lets players create and control creatures from their cellular beginnings through to when they conquer space. Although no official release for Spore has been given by EA, it was expected to be available for Christmas 2007. The news about Spore came during a quarterly earnings report from EA during which it issued a warning about future profits. The company said it could no longer depend on profits from Spore in the financial year that ends in March 2008. This means that Spore is unlikely to be on shop shelves until later in 2008. The game was first announced in 2005 and since then has generated enormous interest. The creation of Will Wright, the brains behind such iconic games as SimCity and The Sims, the title aimed to give players unprecedented freedom to mould their creations. As well as letting players guide their creations through sentience to mastery of the stars, it planned to let the different civilisations created by players meet and interact via the net. EA said the depressed profits for the next financial year were also a result of the investments it had made in online gaming. During the quarter that ended on 31 March, EA lost $25m (£12.5m) on revenues of $641m (£322m). E-mail this to a friend User-generated future for gaming 19 May 06 | Click Sims creator takes on evolution 26 May 05 | Technology New consoles promise big problems 15 Mar 05 | Technology Students designing Eden web games 06 May 07 | Cornwall World of Warcraft game 'delayed' 26 Oct 06 | Technology Lethal guinea pig kills virtual people 12 May 00 | Sci/Tech Simulating life, love and the Universe 17 Sep 04 | Technology The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Google searches web's dark side Bandwidth leap for British forces Highest mobile call climb begins MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Vultures pick off human body farm Nasa unveils Hubble's successor Floyd play at Barrett tribute gig Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Two dead children were murdered Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Locals believe police are doing all they can to find Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future How will history judge Tony Blair's war record? Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/help/rss/4498287.stm	BBC NEWS | Help | RSS | BBC RSS Feed: Standard Licence Terms Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it BBC RSS Feed: Standard Licence Terms By downloading a BBC RSS Feed ( "BBC Feed") from the British Broadcasting Corporation ("BBC") you agree to be bound by the terms set out below (the "Standard Licence Terms"). These Standard Licence Terms may be updated by the BBC from time to time. Please review these Standard Licence Terms each time you download a BBC Feed. Your download and/or use of a BBC Feed indicates your agreement to these Standard Licence Terms. 1.1 Subject to the terms of this Agreement the BBC grants you a non-transferrable, non-sublicensable, royalty free non-exclusive licence to display on your website ("Site") the headlines, active links or other source identifiers and other information or materials that you specifically select to receive from the BBC via the BBC Feed ("BBC Content"). 1.2 All title, ownership rights and intellectual property rights in and to the BBC Feed shall remain the property of the BBC. 1.3 Nothing in these Standard Licence Terms grants you any right to use the BBC trade mark on your Site or elsewhere. 2. Use of BBC Content 2.1 You may not use the Feed or display any BBC Content on any Site that is a web site that is excluded by the BBC (scroll down for the list of Excluded Websites as may be amended by the BBC from time to time). 2.2 YOU MUST ENSURE THAT ALL BBC CONTENT ON YOUR SITE HAS AN ACCREDITATION TO THE BBC IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE BBC ACCREDITATION GUIDELINES FROM TIME TO TIME (SCROLL DOWN FOR THE BBC ACCREDITATION GUIDELINES AS MAY BE AMENDED BY THE BBC FROM TIME TO TIME). 2.3 YOU MAY NOT DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY CHARGE USERS SPECIFICALLY FOR ACCESSING BBC CONTENT OR OTHERWISE COMMERCIALISE SUCH CONTENT, NOR ATTEMPT TO RE-SELL THE BBC CONTENT IN ANY WAY. 2.4 Where possible you must create a functional link back to the BBC News story(ies) summarised by the BBC Content . If you are displaying the BBC Feed where a functional link back to the BBC is not possible, you must display on-screen the URL from which the BBC Content can be obtained (scroll down to the accreditation section below.) You may not directly or indirectly change, edit, add to or produce summaries of the BBC Content or any content on the BBC website nor place any full-story BBC content in an HTML frame-set. 2.5 You may not directly or indirectly suggest any endorsement or approval by the BBC of your Site or any non-BBC entity, product or content or any views expressed within your site or service. 2.6 You acknowledge that the BBC has absolute editorial control over all BBC Content and you accept that the BBC is editorially independent and that the editorial integrity of the BBC Content is the sole responsibility of the BBC. 2.7 Should you receive any enquiries which relate to the BBC or the BBC Content you should promptly refer such enquiries to www.bbc.co.uk/info/contactus. 3. Warranties & Liability 3.1 You warrant to the BBC that: (i) you have fully complied with, and shall continue to comply fully with, all applicable laws and regulations; (ii) the Site shall contain no material which is libellous, defamatory, pornographic, obscene or which brings the BBC into disrepute, or which is in breach of any third party intellectual property rights; and (iii) users of the Site shall be required to comply with terms that are equivalent to the Standard Licence Terms in relation to their use of BBC Content. 3.2 The BBC Feed is made available by the BBC on an "as is" and "as available" basis and the BBC gives no warranty of any kind in relation to the BBC Feed, the BBC Content, or any content on the BBC website. The BBC disclaims all implied warranties, including but not limited to the implied warranties of satisfactory quality, fitness for a particular purpose, non-infringement, compatibility, and accuracy regarding the BBC Content, the BBC Feed and the BBC website and any content thereon. 3.3 TO THE MAXIMUM EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW THE BBC EXCLUDES ALL LIABILITY TO YOU FOR ANY LOSS OR DAMAGE HOWSOEVER ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THIS AGREEMENT, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO ANY LIABILITY ARISING IN RELATION TO THE BBC FEED, THE BBC CONTENT OR ANY CONTENT ON THE BBC WEBSITE, ANY VIRUS OR OTHER CONTAMINATION OR ANY UNAVAILABILITY OF BBC CONTENT. 3.4 Each provision of this Clause 3 operates separately in itself and survives independently of the others. 4.1 You hereby agree to indemnify, hold harmless and defend the BBC in respect of all damages, costs and expenses, including reasonable legal fees and litigation expenses, arising out of or as a result of any breach of the Standard Licence Terms or otherwise in connection with your use of the BBC Feed (including the BBC Content). 5.1 You may terminate this Agreement and the licence granted herein at any time by destroying or removing all copies of the BBC Feed (including the BBC Content) from your Site, all hard drives, networks and other storage media. 5.2 The BBC may restrict, suspend or terminate the BBC Feed, this Agreement, the licence granted herein or your access to the BBC Feed at any time without liability. You agree to destroy all copies of the BBC Feed (including the BBC Content) upon receiving notice of termination from the BBC. 5.3 Clauses 3, 4 and 6 shall survive termination of this Agreement. 6.1 Neither party may assign, charge, sublicense or otherwise deal with its rights or obligations in this Agreement in whole or in part to any third party. 6.2 This Agreement supersedes all prior agreements, arrangements and understandings between the parties concerning its subject matter. Each of the parties acknowledges that it has not relied on any statement made by the other in the course of entering into this Agreement. 6.3 Any failure or delay by either party in exercising its rights under any provisions of this Agreement shall not be construed as a waiver of those rights at any time now or in the future. 6.4 This Agreement shall be governed by, construed and take effect in accordance with English law and the English courts shall have exclusive jurisdiction to settle any claim or dispute which may arise out of or in connection with this Agreement. The BBC's RSS feeds and any BBC content contained in the BBC RSS feeds may only be displayed on websites that do not fall into any one or more of the categories listed below. A site will be deemed to fall within one of the following categories where there is a material and prominent section of the Site that falls within such category. 1. Sites that incite hatred whether based on race, religion, gender, sexuality or otherwise, or promote encourage or facilitate anti-social behaviour 2. Sites that promote, encourage or facilitate violence 3. Sites that promote, encourage or facilitate terrorism or other activities that risk UK national security 4. Sites that discriminate against any specific social group or otherwise exploit vulnerable sections of society 5. Sites that promote, facilitate or encourage illegal activity 6. Sites which are misleading, pornographic, defamatory, or that contain illegal, or otherwise actionable content under UK law 7. Sites which infringe individual privacy (based on the parameters laid down in the "Privacy" chapter of the BBC's Any BBC RSS feed or BBC content on your site must incorporate an attribution (credit) to the BBC in one of the following forms: "From BBC News / BBC Sport / bbc.co.uk" (delete as applicable), or "This content / article is from BBC News / BBC Sport/ the BBC News website / the BBC Sport website / bbc.co.uk" (delete as applicable) If you are displaying a BBC RSS feed in a context where a functional link back to the article on the BBC's website is not possible then you use the following attribution (credit) From bbc.co.uk/news or bbc.co.uk/sport (delete as applicable) If used as part of the BBC BackStage project, then the following wording needs to be added: You may not use any BBC logo or other BBC trade mark without signing a BBC trade mark licence agreement. MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Vultures pick off human body farm Nasa unveils Hubble's successor Floyd play at Barrett tribute gig Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Two dead children were murdered Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Locals believe police are doing all they can to find Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future How will history judge Tony Blair's war record? Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/technology/6639249.stm	BBC NEWS | Technology | Mobile TV predicted to be a hit Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Wednesday, 9 May 2007, 13:59 GMT 14:59 UK E-mail this to a friend Mobile TV predicted to be a hit There are many competing services available on mobiles Mobile TV in action TV could overtake gaming and music as the consumer's favoured application for mobile phones, according to research. Services in Japan, South Korea and Italy are attracting millions, confounding critics who said people would not watch TV on a small device. But consumers remain confused by what is on offer, as competing service offer different content and quality. For the UK, a shortage of spectrum needed for mobile TV means adoption of services might have to wait until 2012. Research firm Screen Digest forecasts that mobile TV will put gaming and music in the shade. It predicted that there will be 140 million global subscribers generating revenue of £3.1bn by 2011. "There has been a lot of cynicism about mobile TV and the big unanswered question has been whether people would watch it. For us that has been answered," said Dave MacQueen, senior mobile analyst with Screen Digest. A slow-down in mobile gaming and the fact that music via mobiles is unlikely to be a money-spinner for operators as people continue to 'side-load' music from their PCs, makes TV the best option for operators to make money, thinks Mr MacQueen. As data services fail to make huge revenues and with regulatory and competitive pressures meaning the money people spend on voice and messaging is falling, operators need to make mobile TV a success, he said. In Japan and South Korea there are now 5.8m people watching TV on their mobile phones, and even more watching TV on other hand-held devices and via in-car systems. In Italy there are 500,000 subscribers to newly-launched mobile TV services such as that run by Vodafone in conjunction with Sky Italia. The Vodafone service offers consumers the choice of 17 channels and can be paid for either monthly or is offered free for people that sign up to contracts. For David McQueen, principal analyst with research firm Informa, mobile TV offers operators the chance to draw people away from increasingly popular pay-as-you-go services to the more profitable contract services. The spectrum allocation issue is unique to the UK and it means the UK is behind in terms of mobile TV There are a variety of ways to deliver TV to mobile phones and individual countries are adopting different technologies. For example Vodafone's service in the UK is delivered via 3G which has a maximum capacity of around 15 users per 2km radius. This means it would not be able to support mass market uptake, although it is ideally suited for offering 'catch-up' TV services such as that offered by 3. By contrast, so-called broadcast TV has infinite capacity but cannot offer catch-up services, although there are now handsets coming on the market which are capable of recording TV. Dave MacQueen believes that consumers are going to be most interested in watching simulcast TV, where the programming on mobile devices mirrors that of conventional TV. This brings its own problems because peak viewing on conventional TV does not coincide with how people consume TV via their mobiles - mainly in short bursts early in the morning and on the way home from work. It all makes for a confusing picture for consumers, say market watchers, and it gets even more complicated in the UK where true broadcast TV to mobiles will have to wait until spectrum is freed up in 2012. "The spectrum allocation issue is unique to the UK and it means the UK is behind in terms of mobile TV," said Mr McQueen. E-mail this to a friend Mobile TV warned to standardise 16 Mar 07 | Technology Personalised adverts on mobile TV 14 Dec 06 | Technology Mobile TV sports viewing is on the move 19 Nov 06 | Business Will mobile TV make moving viewing? 29 Sep 06 | Entertainment Mobile TV scores in Asia 22 Jun 06 | Technology The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Google searches web's dark side Bandwidth leap for British forces Highest mobile call climb begins MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Vultures pick off human body farm Nasa unveils Hubble's successor Floyd play at Barrett tribute gig Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Two dead children were murdered Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Locals believe police are doing all they can to find Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future How will history judge Tony Blair's war record? Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/technology/6638331.stm	BBC NEWS | Technology | Second Life 'child abuse' claim Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Wednesday, 9 May 2007, 10:35 GMT 11:35 UK E-mail this to a friend Second Life 'child abuse' claim Second Life lets people create and control an avatar Second Life is being investigated by German police following allegations that some members are trading child abuse images in the online world. The investigation follows a report by a German TV news programme which uncovered the trading group and members who pay for sex with virtual children. The police are now trying to identify the Second Life members involved. Linden Lab, the creator of Second Life, said it would help identify users and pass on details to prosecutors. Second Life, as its name implies, is a virtual world in which members create an avatar and then use that character to live out a separate existence. The investigation was carried out by Nick Schader from the Report Mainz news programme who is also a member of Second Life. Mr Schader was asked to pay to attend meetings where virtual and real child pornography was being shown. Members of this group also offered to put him in touch with traders of real child pornography. The investigation also uncovered so called "age play" groups that revolve around the abuse of virtual children. Information gathered during the report was passed to the prosecutor's office in Halle who said it hoped to track down the German Second Life user who shared the images of virtual child pornography. Peter Vogt, the prosecutor in the Halle, told the Deutsche Presse-Agentur agency: "I assume we are going to catch this user fairly quickly." Under Germany law possession of "virtual" child pornography is punishable by up to three years in jail. E-mail this to a friend The dark side of digital utopia 22 Dec 03 | Technology 'Worm' attacks Second Life world 20 Nov 06 | Technology Security row upsets Second Lifers 26 Sep 06 | Technology Re-writing the rules of online ID 05 Jan 07 | Technology eBay used for child porn network 18 Apr 07 | London Online child abuse complaints up 17 Apr 07 | Technology The elusive world of child porn dealers 08 Feb 07 | Europe Report Mainz investigation into Second Life (German) The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Google searches web's dark side Bandwidth leap for British forces Highest mobile call climb begins MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Vultures pick off human body farm Nasa unveils Hubble's successor Floyd play at Barrett tribute gig Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Two dead children were murdered Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Locals believe police are doing all they can to find Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future How will history judge Tony Blair's war record? Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/technology/6635027.stm	BBC NEWS | Technology | Open your laptops and begin Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Tuesday, 8 May 2007, 12:16 GMT 13:16 UK E-mail this to a friend Open your laptops and begin Perhaps it is time to let our children surf during exams, argues Bill Thompson Is it time to review the way exams are taken? It is exam time in schools around the UK. My son, aged 14, has SATs all week, while my daughter has GCSE papers from next Tuesday onwards. Some of her friends are locked in the art room for their practical exam today and tomorrow, others still have sore thumbs from last week's textiles practical. For the art exam, students can take in material they have prepared in advance, like sketches and ideas, but in general anything that might be considered to give an unfair advantage is forbidden. According to Chailey School in Sussex, this includes "calculator cases/ instruction leaflets, bags, personal TV/stereos, electronic or radio communication devices, including mobile telephones". Bringing these in counts as cheating, and if your mobile is turned on you will fail the whole course, not just one paper. This seems reasonable to those who have been through the exam system, but in fact the idea that you can assess someone's knowledge and ability by getting them to sit isolated in a room for three hours regurgitating facts or writing essays from scratch is a peculiar invention of the modern age. Computers are integral to most lessons in school The history of exams was recently explored on BBC Radio 4 in 'Turn over your papers...now!', an entertaining and witty look at the way written papers, essays and multiple choice tests replaced other forms of assessment. Presented by writer John O'Farrell, it reinforced my view that the way we currently do things has more to do with satisfying the needs of university admission officers and the administrators of the Victorian civil service than helping people show their talents and abilities to the best. And yet the government has recently announced a move away from coursework for GCSEs because they think it makes it too easy to cheat, and because it privileges those children whose parents offer help and support. It will be back to pass or fail exams for my son as he embarks on his GCSE Maths, unlike his coursework-laden sister. And although he will be allowed a calculator, he won't be able to use any of the other computational tools that are available. He may, of course, use a computer to actually sit the exam, but that's a separate matter. Taking multiple-choice tests on a computer is a well-established practice, and though we need to consider the same issues as we do with e-voting, like providing a paper record, it can be made to work. But he will not have a chance to demonstrate his research skills, or his ability to work with others, or his understanding of the core technology that supports so much of modern life, the internet. Today it would be unthinkable to restrict a reporter's access to the net When I began working at The Guardian newspaper in 1995 there was one internet-connected PC on each floor of the building, except in the online department where I worked. This was considered sufficient for the few occasions on which journalists would want to go there for research, because the Atex terminals had access to an array of online databases. Today it would be unthinkable to restrict a reporter's access to the net. Last week my friend Anne had some work done in her front garden, and the gardeners cut through her network cable. This was bad enough for her as a freelance writer, but her daughter - currently taking GCSE art - was distraught and could not be pacified, locked out of the sources she needed to prepare for the crucial practical. In the end, Ric, our local IT support expert, came through and patched the cable, but it was a close run thing. And it highlighted for me the way that the exam system fails to acknowledge this important aspect of our children's education. Giving grades for IT as a core skill is not nearly enough; we need to let them show what they can really do online. Yet school exams do nothing to assess ability in a world where access to computers, the internet and the tools they offer are so embedded in daily life that not being online is unimaginable. I don't think we should completely replace essay questions and three-hour exams. There will always be a need to test knowledge, to try to find out what someone actually knows. But there is an increasing need to find out how someone researches, how they use available resources and how they manage to filter, synthesise and edit the information available to them. Open book exams are already used around the world, letting students use specific reference materials as research aids. Perhaps it's time we considered open laptop exams too, at least for some papers. Bill Thompson is an independent journalist and regular commentator on the BBC World Service programme Digital Planet. E-mail this to a friend The evolution of a giant Watching art imitate life Concern as net hits data limits 'I was wrong about Steve Jobs' Who gains from Wikileaks? The political power of the network The mash-up future of the web 'Why I don't believe Steve Jobs' For want of a file, the net was lost Re-writing the rules of online ID Intellectual property row rages on Degrees 'unfair and misleading' 27 Apr 07 | Education Chailey School exam guidance The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Google searches web's dark side Bandwidth leap for British forces Highest mobile call climb begins MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Vultures pick off human body farm Nasa unveils Hubble's successor Floyd play at Barrett tribute gig Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Two dead children were murdered Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Locals believe police are doing all they can to find Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future How will history judge Tony Blair's war record? Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/technology/6638331.stm	BBC NEWS | Technology | Second Life 'child abuse' claim Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Wednesday, 9 May 2007, 10:35 GMT 11:35 UK E-mail this to a friend Second Life 'child abuse' claim Second Life lets people create and control an avatar Second Life is being investigated by German police following allegations that some members are trading child abuse images in the online world. The investigation follows a report by a German TV news programme which uncovered the trading group and members who pay for sex with virtual children. The police are now trying to identify the Second Life members involved. Linden Lab, the creator of Second Life, said it would help identify users and pass on details to prosecutors. Second Life, as its name implies, is a virtual world in which members create an avatar and then use that character to live out a separate existence. The investigation was carried out by Nick Schader from the Report Mainz news programme who is also a member of Second Life. Mr Schader was asked to pay to attend meetings where virtual and real child pornography was being shown. Members of this group also offered to put him in touch with traders of real child pornography. The investigation also uncovered so called "age play" groups that revolve around the abuse of virtual children. Information gathered during the report was passed to the prosecutor's office in Halle who said it hoped to track down the German Second Life user who shared the images of virtual child pornography. Peter Vogt, the prosecutor in the Halle, told the Deutsche Presse-Agentur agency: "I assume we are going to catch this user fairly quickly." Under Germany law possession of "virtual" child pornography is punishable by up to three years in jail. E-mail this to a friend The dark side of digital utopia 22 Dec 03 | Technology 'Worm' attacks Second Life world 20 Nov 06 | Technology Security row upsets Second Lifers 26 Sep 06 | Technology Re-writing the rules of online ID 05 Jan 07 | Technology eBay used for child porn network 18 Apr 07 | London Online child abuse complaints up 17 Apr 07 | Technology The elusive world of child porn dealers 08 Feb 07 | Europe Report Mainz investigation into Second Life (German) The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Google searches web's dark side Bandwidth leap for British forces Highest mobile call climb begins MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Vultures pick off human body farm Nasa unveils Hubble's successor Floyd play at Barrett tribute gig Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Two dead children were murdered Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Locals believe police are doing all they can to find Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future How will history judge Tony Blair's war record? Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/americas/6645179.stm	BBC NEWS | World | Americas | Nasa unveils Hubble's successor Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 00:00 GMT 01:00 UK E-mail this to a friend Nasa unveils Hubble's successor The model of the JWST is on display in Washington DC. The US space agency Nasa has unveiled a model of a space telescope that scientists say will be able to see to the farthest reaches of the Universe. The James Webb Space Telescope (JWST) is intended to replace the ageing Hubble telescope. It will be larger than its predecessor, sit farther from Earth and have a giant mirror to enable it to see more. Officials said the JWST - named after a former Nasa administrator - was on course for launch in June 2013. The full-scale model is being displayed outside the Smithsonian National Air and Space Museum in the US capital, Washington DC. It was recently shown off in Seattle at the American Astronomical Society meeting. The $4.5bn (£2.3bn) telescope will take up a position some 1.5 million km (930,000 miles) from Earth. It will measure 24m (80ft) long by 12m (40ft) high and incorporate a hexagonal mirror 6.5m (21.3ft) in diameter, almost three times the size of Hubble's. Hubble, launched in 1990, has sent back pictures of our solar system, distant stars, and remote fledgling galaxies formed not long after the Big Bang. But scientists say the JWST will enable them to look deeper into space and even further back at the origins of the Universe. "Clearly we need a much bigger telescope to go back much further in time to see the very birth of the Universe," said Edward Weiler, director of Nasa's Goddard Space Flight Centre. Martin Mohan of Northrop Grumman, the contractor building the telescope, said that the team was making excellent progress. "There's engineering to do, but invention is done, more than six years ahead of launch," he said. When ready, the JWST will be launched by a European Ariane 5 rocket. It is expected to have a 10-year lifespan. Until then, the 17-year-old Hubble telescope will continue to do its work. Nasa plans to send astronauts on the space shuttle to service it in 2008. THE JAMES WEBB SPACE TELESCOPE JWST is named after James E Webb, Nasa Administrator during the Apollo lunar exploration era; he served from 1961 to 1968 It will be placed 1.5m km from Earth, at Lagrange Point 2, an area of gravitational balance that keeps it in a Sun-Earth line The telescope will be shaded from sunlight by a shield, enabling it to stay cold, increasing its sensitivity to infrared radiation Three principal instruments will gather images of the Universe in the infrared region of the spectrum These will yield new information about how stars and galaxies first formed a few hundred million years after the Big Bang E-mail this to a friend Telescope mirror nears completion 08 Feb 07 | Science/Nature First stars in telescope's sights 12 Jan 07 | Science/Nature Large camera delights astronomers 10 Nov 03 | Science/Nature The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Pope creates Brazil's first saint UK police face no action on shooting Nasa unveils Hubble's successor MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Vultures pick off human body farm Nasa unveils Hubble's successor Floyd play at Barrett tribute gig Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Two dead children were murdered Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Locals believe police are doing all they can to find Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future How will history judge Tony Blair's war record? Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/wales/south_west/6642039.stm	BBC NEWS | Wales | South West Wales | MP3 players could boast sat-nav Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation BBC News in video and audio Your news when you want it Thursday, 10 May 2007, 12:45 GMT 13:45 UK E-mail this to a friend MP3 players could boast sat-nav MP3 players could give listeners a "nudge" towards areas of interest Computer scientists are hoping to add GPS satellite navigation technology to hand-held music devices like MP3s, to help guide pedestrians around cities. Walkers could programme a destination into a device and be directed there while listening to songs. If headed the right way, music would play from both headphones, but shifting volume to different ears could indicate a change in direction. Swansea and Glasgow universities have had funding for the three-year project. Researchers say the technology could be developed to allow users to personalise the system. If they were in an unfamiliar town or city and had an interest in art galleries, the device could give them 'a nudge' to alert them one was nearby. The nudge would either be a physical tap or vibration from the device The system's prototype was developed by Dr Matt Jones, a senior lecturer at Swansea University's department of computer science, while he was working in New Zealand. He has now had funding from the Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council to develop the idea further with colleagues in Scotland. Dr Jones said: "Normally, when we listen to music through headphones, we do so to shut the world out. This system allows the world to seep in when users let it. "We are particularly interested in redefining how people interact with computers, and how we can make computers more actively responsive to their needs. "So we're looking at how we can use the music people are listening to in order to prompt them to take notice of things that might be of interest to them. "For instance, if your handheld device knows that the user likes art galleries, it can give a 'nudge' when they're in the vicinity of a gallery." He added: "The nudge would either be a physical tap or vibration from the device, or it could be given audibly by changing the balance of the music being listened to. "If the user decides to follow the cues to see what the device thinks is of interest, the system will then guide them to the destination. "And if users ignore the hints, the device will stop nudging, until it comes across something else of potential interest." E-mail this to a friend News, views, travel and more from across the region Ban on MP3 transmitters is lifted 23 Nov 06 | Politics 22 Jan 07 | Magazine Students given free MP3 players 06 Sep 06 | Education Phones and MP3s fuel robbery rise 20 Jul 06 | Politics Swansea University: Computer Science Glasgow University: Computer Science Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites TOP SOUTH WEST WALES STORIES Top vet's visit to 'sacred' bull Rugby amputee thanks well-wishers Sat nav driver's car hit by train MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Vultures pick off human body farm Nasa unveils Hubble's successor Floyd play at Barrett tribute gig Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Two dead children were murdered Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Locals believe police are doing all they can to find Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future How will history judge Tony Blair's war record? Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/technology/6638209.stm	BBC NEWS | Technology | 'Guessing' robots find their way Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Thursday, 10 May 2007, 07:26 GMT 08:26 UK E-mail this to a friend 'Guessing' robots find their way The robots use educated "guesswork" to find their way around Robots that use "guesswork" to navigate through unfamiliar surroundings are being developed by US researchers. The mobile machines create maps of areas they have already explored and then use this information to predict what unknown environments will be like. Trials in office buildings showed that the robots were able to find their way around, New Scientist reported. Making robots that can navigate without prior knowledge of their surroundings was a huge challenge, the team said. It works well in indoor environments Most mobile robots do this using a technique called SLAM (simultaneous localisation and mapping), whereby they build up a map of their unknown environment, using various sensors, whilst keeping track of their current position at the same time. But this technique is slow because a robot must explore a great deal of terrain to know its precise location. It is also prone to errors. So the team from Purdue University, in Indiana, has developed a new approach. The robots create a 2D map of the area they are exploring, but when they come to an unknown area, they check back through this information to see if it seems similar to any areas that have already explored. They do this using an algorithm - a step-by-step problem solving procedure. Professor George Lee who carried out the research, said: "The robot gets to a new area and thinks: 'Have I seen these sorts of things before?' Then it goes back and looks at its stored data. "It might then think: 'Hey, this is very, very similar to something I've seen before, I don't need to explore that room or corner.' And this saves time for it to explore other areas." He said it was similar to the human navigational process, where we build up a "mental map" of our surroundings by recognising familiar sights. The scientists first tested the algorithm using virtual mazes and offices. Their computer models revealed that the robots could navigate successfully while exploring a third less of their environment than robots that simply used SLAM. Then tests carried out using real robots inside a university office building showed that the new navigation technique was also faster and less prone to errors than SLAM. However, the new method did have some limitations, Professor Lee said. "Indoors, in places like office buildings, it works well; outdoors, where the scene isn't as repetitive, the result is not that good." Self-navigating robots could have many applications, Professor Lee told the BBC News Website. The US defence department is currently focusing on self-driving automobiles. Professor Lee's research was funded by the National Science Foundation and was published in the journal IEEE Transactions on Robotics. E-mail this to a friend Robot rally cars face tough race 31 Oct 06 | Technology Roboshark to hunt tourists 31 Dec 04 | Science/Nature Robots get bookish in libraries 21 Jul 04 | Technology Robotic bollards to take control 28 Apr 04 | Science/Nature Honda's humanoid robot hits UK 16 Feb 04 | Technology IEEE Transactions on Robotics. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Google searches web's dark side Bandwidth leap for British forces Highest mobile call climb begins MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Vultures pick off human body farm Nasa unveils Hubble's successor Floyd play at Barrett tribute gig Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Two dead children were murdered Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Locals believe police are doing all they can to find Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future How will history judge Tony Blair's war record? Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/europe/6643855.stm	BBC NEWS | World | Europe | Software to reveal Stasi secrets Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Thursday, 10 May 2007, 16:52 GMT 17:52 UK E-mail this to a friend Software to reveal Stasi secrets The Stasi had thousands of records on prominent West Germans German scientists are piloting new software to try to reassemble secret documents shredded by East Germany's secret police before reunification. Some 16,250 sacks containing pieces of 45m documents were found and confiscated by authorities after the fall of the Berlin Wall in late 1989. Correspondents say the haul contained classified and compromising documents about Stasi informers and victims. Experts say they now hope to complete the task in four to five years. Reconstruction work began on the paper fragments 12 years ago. In that time 24 people have only been able to reassemble the contents of 323 sacks. The BBC's Steve Rosenburg in Berlin says it has been a desperately slow process which, according to some estimates, could take 600 years to complete. Now, however, computer software being employed by Berlin's Frauenhofer Institute for Production Systems and Design Technology is set to speed up the process. German scientists believe they can complete the puzzle in the space of a few years. The German government is helping to finance the 6.3m euro (£4.3m; $8.5m) project. It is hoped that restoring the shredded files will help reveal the last great secrets of the Stasi, our correspondent says. E-mail this to a friend Stasi spy chief Markus Wolf dies 09 Nov 06 | Europe Seven awards to German Stasi film 13 May 06 | Entertainment Stasi film breaks with nostalgia 18 Apr 06 | Europe Stasi material on Kohl released 24 Mar 05 | Europe Access to Kohl Stasi files curbed 23 Jun 04 | Europe The Stasi Records Office The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Serbian parties in coalition deal Last goodbye for Blair and Chirac Yukos final assets fetch $3.9bn MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Vultures pick off human body farm Nasa unveils Hubble's successor Floyd play at Barrett tribute gig Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Two dead children were murdered Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Locals believe police are doing all they can to find Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future How will history judge Tony Blair's war record? Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/uk_politics/6642339.stm	BBC NEWS | Politics | ID card cost rises above £5bn Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Thursday, 10 May 2007, 16:34 GMT 17:34 UK E-mail this to a friend ID card cost rises above £5bn Supporters say ID cards will boost national security. The official cost of the ID card scheme has risen by £400m to £5.31bn, the Home Office says. The figure was released as Tony Blair announced his departure, leading to claims from the opposition that the government was "burying bad news". The Tories also say that the actual rise in costs, when expressed in 2007/08 prices, is £640m. The Home Office say that figure is 'concocted' and the increase was due to staff and anti-fraud expenditure. Amid the row about the actual rise in the cost of the scheme, the Tories and Lib Dems also say that the Home Office broke the law by releasing the updated costings a month later than they should have. Under the Identity Card Act, the government must give an update on the costs of the scheme twice a year. The latest update was due on 9 April. The Home Office said 9 April had fallen during Parliament's Easter holiday and it had released the figures "as soon as we possibly could". The timing with Mr Blair's departure announcement had been coincidental, said a spokeswoman. The £5.31bn cost relates to expected expenditure between 2006 and 2016. Shadow Home Secretary David Davis said: "The public will see through this transparent and pathetic attempt to bury bad news. "It is also no surprise the government has had to revise their cost estimate up by so much. "The public should brace themselves for more increases every time this estimate is updated." Liberal Democrat home affairs spokesman Nick Clegg said: "It is bad enough that the government seeks to bury bad news behind the camouflage of Tony Blair's announcement. "Breaking the law to do so breaks new ground even for Tony Blair's Labour Party." He added: "The costs are now spiralling out of control. On the grounds of expense alone, the government should do us all a favour and abandon this great white elephant before it is too late." A Home Office spokesman said: "The costs report published today shows an actual increase of £40m per annum over ten years - of which 70% will in any case be spent on passports. "As the report sets out, the updated figures take into account extra staff to boost counter-fraud measures as the scheme is implemented." The Home Office added that extra costs were inevitable as British passports were upgraded to meet new international standards and the actual cost to the public of ID cards would not be affected by the latest figures. Liberty Director Shami Chakrabarti said: "The soaring costs and declining support for the grand ID card folly are increasingly inescapable. "Surely this dangerous and expensive idea must leave Number 10 with its author?" Phil Booth, of anti-identity card group NO2ID, added: "With each new analysis, the cost of the ID card scheme spirals." ID cards are not due to become compulsory until at least 2010 when all passport applicants will be issued with ID cards. E-mail this to a friend ID fingerprints plan under fire Giant ID computer plan scrapped ID cards to 'safeguard liberties' Blair goes on ID card offensive ID cards 'in Labour's manifesto' Who wants them, who doesn't - and how they might work What data will ID cards store? ID cards in other countries 'I've got a biometric ID card' Do you support ID cards? Department for Work and Pensions DWP: Report released under Freedom of Information Act The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Labour deputy hopefuls woo MPs SNP and Greens sign working deal MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Vultures pick off human body farm Nasa unveils Hubble's successor Floyd play at Barrett tribute gig Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Two dead children were murdered Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Locals believe police are doing all they can to find Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future How will history judge Tony Blair's war record? Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/technology/6639417.stm	BBC NEWS | Technology | Facing up to Facebook fears Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Wednesday, 9 May 2007, 13:54 GMT 14:54 UK E-mail this to a friend Facing up to Facebook fears Internet law professor Michael Geist says attempts to block social media sites such as Facebook are misguided. Facebook has seen rapid growth Facebook, the enormously popular social media website, has attracted a remarkable amount of attention in recent weeks. On the heels of student suspensions for posting negative comments about school officials on Facebook, and the integral role the social media site played for student expression during the horrific events at Virginia Tech, the Province of Ontario in Canada last week announced that it was banning access to the site for thousands of bureaucrats and elected officials. While the merits of Facebook are open to debate - some love it, others hate it, and many simply do not understand what the fuss is about - there should be no debating the fact that many of these policy responses are unnecessary, knee-jerk reactions to an emerging social phenomenon that is poorly understood. Facebook launched in February 2004 as a social network site for Harvard University. The site allowed users to chat, post photos and comments, as well as connect with fellow students with common interests through online groups. The site quickly grew, first to other universities and later to high schools. By last summer, it was used by more than 30,000 educational institutions in the US, Canada, and other English-speaking countries, with roughly eight million users. Last September, Facebook opened its virtual doors to the general public by permitting registrations from people in hundreds of geographic areas. The decision, which created some apprehension among the Facebook community, caused the site to explode in popularity. Facebook is used amongst groups of friends Today, there are 21 million Facebook users worldwide and the site is adding 100,000 new users each week. The site has achieved remarkable success in Britain, where it was recently ranked as the twentieth most visited website in the country, up twenty-fold from the prior year. While the number of UK Facebook users was estimated at 200,000 last September, by March 2007 that number had grown to more than 1.3 million registered users. In fact, more than 40 U.K. universities have signed up to Facebook, leading to some criticism that the site "institutionalises gossip". Although most people associate Facebook with social activities, the site can be very useful in mobilising interest around political and policy issues. For example, six weeks ago, Amber MacArthur, a Canadian television reporter, launched a new group called Canadians for Net Neutrality. Today the group has more than 1,100 participants, sharing ideas and concerns about whether Canadian Internet service providers are treating content and applications in an equitable manner. The recent backlash against Facebook has generally on centred around two concerns - derogatory comments and workplace productivity - ironically missing the real sources of concern such as the privacy impact of posting deeply personal information. Many Facebook users openly comment about issues of concern. That naturally includes students posting thoughts about fellow students and teachers or about supervisors at their part-time jobs. Attempts to block such activity are not only bound to fail, but they ultimately cut off decision makers, school officials, and community leaders from their communities In recent months, an Ottawa grocery chain fired several of its employees after company officials discovered negative comments on Facebook, while several Ontario schools have suspended students for posting "offensive" comments about school officials. While companies are obviously entitled to establish the ground rules for employee behaviour, it is hard to see how schools can justify suspending students for simply speaking their minds. It is certainly appropriate to take action against cyber-bullying, however students exercising legitimate free speech should not be punished simply because the speech occurs in a semi-private online forum rather than in a semi-private discussion on school grounds out of earshot of school officials. In fact, educators should seize these opportunities to teach students about both the benefits and drawbacks of social media, while encouraging them to use the tools in positive ways. Facing up to fears The Ontario government ban against Facebook is even more puzzling. Premier Dalton McGuinty indicated that the government does not see how it adds value to the workplace, yet the decision will only further isolate the government from the very public that it serves. Is there really no benefit to have government policy makers access and participate in the hundreds of groups discussing Ontario health care issues? Would it be so bad for elected officials to actually engage with their constituents in a social network environment? The attempts to block Facebook or punish users for stating their opinions fails to appreciate that social network sites are simply the internet generation's equivalent of the town hall, the school cafeteria, or the workplace water cooler - the place where people come together to exchange both ideas and idle gossip. Attempts to block such activity are not only bound to fail, but they ultimately cut off decision makers, school officials, and community leaders from their communities. The answer does not lie in banning Facebook or the other emerging social media sites, but rather in facing up to Facebook fears and learning to use these new tools to engage and educate. Michael Geist holds the Canada Research Chair in Internet and E-commerce Law at the University of Ottawa, Faculty of Law. He can be reached at mgeist@uottawa.ca or online at www.michaelgeist.ca. E-mail this to a friend THE MICHAEL GEIST COLUMN Push for open access to research US copyright lobby out-of-touch Vista gives a view of a new world Helping users help themselves History lessons for YouTube Internet privacy and Icann Switch off sought for TV treaty Free speech, libel and the net The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Google searches web's dark side Bandwidth leap for British forces Highest mobile call climb begins MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Vultures pick off human body farm Nasa unveils Hubble's successor Floyd play at Barrett tribute gig Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Two dead children were murdered Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Locals believe police are doing all they can to find Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future How will history judge Tony Blair's war record? Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/world/europe/6643855.stm	BBC NEWS | World | Europe | Software to reveal Stasi secrets Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Thursday, 10 May 2007, 16:52 GMT 17:52 UK E-mail this to a friend Software to reveal Stasi secrets The Stasi had thousands of records on prominent West Germans German scientists are piloting new software to try to reassemble secret documents shredded by East Germany's secret police before reunification. Some 16,250 sacks containing pieces of 45m documents were found and confiscated by authorities after the fall of the Berlin Wall in late 1989. Correspondents say the haul contained classified and compromising documents about Stasi informers and victims. Experts say they now hope to complete the task in four to five years. Reconstruction work began on the paper fragments 12 years ago. In that time 24 people have only been able to reassemble the contents of 323 sacks. The BBC's Steve Rosenburg in Berlin says it has been a desperately slow process which, according to some estimates, could take 600 years to complete. Now, however, computer software being employed by Berlin's Frauenhofer Institute for Production Systems and Design Technology is set to speed up the process. German scientists believe they can complete the puzzle in the space of a few years. The German government is helping to finance the 6.3m euro (£4.3m; $8.5m) project. It is hoped that restoring the shredded files will help reveal the last great secrets of the Stasi, our correspondent says. E-mail this to a friend Stasi spy chief Markus Wolf dies 09 Nov 06 | Europe Seven awards to German Stasi film 13 May 06 | Entertainment Stasi film breaks with nostalgia 18 Apr 06 | Europe Stasi material on Kohl released 24 Mar 05 | Europe Access to Kohl Stasi files curbed 23 Jun 04 | Europe The Stasi Records Office The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Serbian parties in coalition deal Last goodbye for Blair and Chirac Yukos final assets fetch $3.9bn MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Vultures pick off human body farm Nasa unveils Hubble's successor Floyd play at Barrett tribute gig Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Two dead children were murdered Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Locals believe police are doing all they can to find Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future How will history judge Tony Blair's war record? Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/wales/south_west/6642039.stm	BBC NEWS | Wales | South West Wales | MP3 players could boast sat-nav Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation BBC News in video and audio Your news when you want it Thursday, 10 May 2007, 12:45 GMT 13:45 UK E-mail this to a friend MP3 players could boast sat-nav MP3 players could give listeners a "nudge" towards areas of interest Computer scientists are hoping to add GPS satellite navigation technology to hand-held music devices like MP3s, to help guide pedestrians around cities. Walkers could programme a destination into a device and be directed there while listening to songs. If headed the right way, music would play from both headphones, but shifting volume to different ears could indicate a change in direction. Swansea and Glasgow universities have had funding for the three-year project. Researchers say the technology could be developed to allow users to personalise the system. If they were in an unfamiliar town or city and had an interest in art galleries, the device could give them 'a nudge' to alert them one was nearby. The nudge would either be a physical tap or vibration from the device The system's prototype was developed by Dr Matt Jones, a senior lecturer at Swansea University's department of computer science, while he was working in New Zealand. He has now had funding from the Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council to develop the idea further with colleagues in Scotland. Dr Jones said: "Normally, when we listen to music through headphones, we do so to shut the world out. This system allows the world to seep in when users let it. "We are particularly interested in redefining how people interact with computers, and how we can make computers more actively responsive to their needs. "So we're looking at how we can use the music people are listening to in order to prompt them to take notice of things that might be of interest to them. "For instance, if your handheld device knows that the user likes art galleries, it can give a 'nudge' when they're in the vicinity of a gallery." He added: "The nudge would either be a physical tap or vibration from the device, or it could be given audibly by changing the balance of the music being listened to. "If the user decides to follow the cues to see what the device thinks is of interest, the system will then guide them to the destination. "And if users ignore the hints, the device will stop nudging, until it comes across something else of potential interest." E-mail this to a friend News, views, travel and more from across the region Ban on MP3 transmitters is lifted 23 Nov 06 | Politics 22 Jan 07 | Magazine Students given free MP3 players 06 Sep 06 | Education Phones and MP3s fuel robbery rise 20 Jul 06 | Politics Swansea University: Computer Science Glasgow University: Computer Science Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites TOP SOUTH WEST WALES STORIES Top vet's visit to 'sacred' bull Rugby amputee thanks well-wishers Sat nav driver's car hit by train MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Vultures pick off human body farm Nasa unveils Hubble's successor Floyd play at Barrett tribute gig Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Two dead children were murdered Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Locals believe police are doing all they can to find Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future How will history judge Tony Blair's war record? Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://search.yahoo.com/mrss/	Media RSS Module - RSS 2.0 Module "Media RSS" Specification Version 1.1.1 An RSS module that supplements the 02/21/2005 - Major consolidation of all requested changes: [1.0.0] Added additional type of element to distinguish content of an adult nature. Modified to have a attribute for better module consistency. to allow specifying categorization scheme. for a human readable label. element for media binary hashing. to distinguish formatting of text. Improved descriptions of various elements and attributes. 08/22/2005 - Improved global syndication capabilities: [1.1.0] attributes to media:text and media:content. to give more flexibility to represent things other than people or companies. to explicitly determine what type of media is expressed. Added a "Best Practices" section to encourage use of the Feed History module, and Dublin Core's expiration capability. Add time code information to 10/22/2005 - Minor improvements: [1.1.1] Added capability for elements to appear at the to allow explicit global relationships to be expressed. The namespace for Media RSS is defined to be: "Media RSS" is a new RSS module that supplements the enclosure capabilities of RSS 2.0. RSS enclosures are already being used to syndicate audio files and images. Media RSS extends enclosures to handle other media types, such as short films or TV, as well as provide additional metadata with the media. Media RSS enables content publishers and bloggers to syndicate multimedia content such as TV and video clips, movies, images, and audio. is a sub-element of . It allows grouping of elements that are effectively the same content, yet different representations. For instance: the same song recorded in both the WAV and MP3 format. It's an optional element that must only be used for this purpose. is a sub-element of either . Media objects that are not the same content should not be included in the same element. The sequence of these items implies the order of presentation. While many of the attributes appear to be audio/video specific, this element can be used to publish any type of media. It contains 14 attributes, most of which are optional. should specify the direct url to the media object. If not included, a element must be specified. is the number of bytes of the media object. It is an optional attribute. is the standard MIME type of the object. It is an optional attribute. is the type of object (image | audio | video | document | executable). While this attribute can at times seem redundant if is supplied, it is included because it simplifies decision making on the reader side, as well as flushes out any ambiguities between MIME type and object type. It is an optional attribute. determines if this is the default object that should be used for the . There should only be one default object per . It is an optional attribute. determines if the object is a sample or the full version of the object, or even if it is a continuous stream (sample | full | nonstop). Default value is 'full'. It is an optional attribute. is the kilobits per second rate of media. It is an optional attribute. is the number of frames per second for the media object. It is an optional attribute. is the number of samples per second taken to create the media object. It is expressed in thousands of samples per second (kHz). It is an optional attribute. is number of audio channels in the media object. It is an optional attribute. is the number of seconds the media object plays. It is an optional attribute. is the height of the media object. It is an optional attribute. is the width of the media object. It is an optional attribute. is the primary language encapsulated in the media object. Language codes possible are detailed in RFC 3066. This attribute is used similar to the attribute detailed in the XML 1.0 Specification (Third Edition). It is an optional attribute. These optional attributes, along with the optional elements below, contain the primary metadata entries needed to index and organize media content. Additional supported attributes for describing images, audio, and video may be added in future revisions of this document. have no limitations on the number of times they can appear, the general nature of RSS should be preserved: an represents a "story". Simply stated, this is similar to the blog style of syndication. However, if one is using this module to strictly publish media, there should be one element for each media object/group. This is to allow for proper attribution for the origination of the media content through the element. It also allows the full benefit of the other RSS elements to be realized. The following elements are optional and may appear as sub-elements of When an element appears at a shallow level, such as , it means that the element should be applied to every media object within its scope. Duplicated elements appearing at deeper levels of the document tree have higher priority over other levels. For example, level elements are favored over level elements. The priority level is listed from strongest to weakest: [NOTE: This is deprecated, and has been replaced with the more flexible This allows the permissible audience to be declared. If this element is not included, it assumes that no restrictions are necessary. It has one optional attribute. r (cz 1 lz 1 nz 1 oz 1 vz 1) is the URI that identifies the rating scheme. It is an optional attribute. If this attribute is not included, the default scheme is urn:simple (adult | nonadult). The title of the particular media object. It has 1 optional attribute. The Judy's - The Moo Song specifies the type of text embedded. Possible values are either 'plain' or 'html'. Default value is 'plain'. All html must be entity-encoded. It is an optional attribute. Short description describing the media object typically a sentence in length. It has 1 optional attribute. This was some really bizarre band I listened to as a young lad. specifies the type of text embedded. Possible values are either 'plain' or 'html'. Default value is 'plain'. All html must be entity-encoded. It is an optional attribute. Highly relevant keywords describing the media object with typically a maximum of ten words. The keywords and phrases should be comma delimited. kitty, cat, big dog, yarn, fluffy Allows particular images to be used as representative images for the media object. If multiple thumbnails are included, and time coding is not at play, it is assumed that the images are in order of importance. It has 1 required attribute and 3 optional attributes. specifies the url of the thumbnail. It is a required attribute. specifies the height of the thumbnail. It is an optional attribute. specifies the width of the thumbnail. It is an optional attribute. specifies the time offset in relation to the media object. Typically this is used when creating multiple keyframes within a single video. The format for this attribute should be in the DSM-CC's Normal Play Time (NTP) as used in RTSP [ RFC 2326 3.6 Normal Play Time ]. It is an optional attribute. NTP has a second or subsecond resolution. It is specified as H:M:S.h (npt-hhmmss) or S.h (npt-sec), where H=hours, M=minutes, S=second and h=fractions of a second. A possible alternative to NTP would be SMPTE. It is believed that NTP is simpler and easier to use. Allows a taxonomy to be set that gives an indication of the type of media content, and its particular contents. It has 2 optional attributes. is the URI that identifies the categorization scheme. It is an optional attribute. If this attribute is not included, the default scheme is 'http://search.yahoo.com/mrss/category_schema'. is the human readable label that can be displayed in end user applications. It is an optional attribute. This is the hash of the binary media file. It can appear multiple times as long as each instance is a different . It has 1 optional attribute. indicates the algorithm used to create the hash. Possible values are 'md5' and 'sha-1'. Default value is 'md5'. It is an optional attribute. Allows the media object to be accessed through a web browser media player console. This element is required only if a direct media attribute is not specified in the element. It has 1 required attribute, and 2 optional attributes. is the url of the player console that plays the media. It is a required attribute. is the height of the browser window that the should be opened in. It is an optional attribute. is the width of the browser window that the should be opened in. It is an optional attribute. Notable entity and the contribution to the creation of the media object. Current entities can include people, companies, locations, etc. Specific entities can have multiple roles, and several entities can have the same role. These should appear as distinct elements. It has 2 optional attributes. role specifies the role the entity played. Must be lowercase. It is an optional attribute. is the URI that identifies the role scheme. It is an optional attribute. If this attribute is not included, the default scheme is 'urn:ebu'. See: European Broadcasting Union Role Codes. actor anchor person author choreographer composer conductor director editor graphic designer grip illustrator lyricist music arranger music group musician orchestra performer photographer producer reporter vocalist European Broadcasting Union Role Codes Copyright information for media object. It has 1 optional attribute. is the url for a terms of use page or additional copyright information. If the media is operating under a Creative Commons license, the Creative Commons module should be used instead. It is an optional attribute. Allows the inclusion of a text transcript, closed captioning, or lyrics of the media content. Many of these elements are permitted to provide a time series of text. In such cases, it is encouraged, but not required, that the elements be grouped by language and appear in time sequence order based on the time. Elements can have overlapping times. It has 4 optional attributes. Oh, say, can you see By the dawn's early light specifies the type of text embedded. Possible values are either 'plain' or 'html'. Default value is 'plain'. All html must be entity-encoded. It is an optional attribute. is the primary language encapsulated in the media object. Language codes possible are detailed in RFC 3066. This attribute is used similar to the xml:lang attribute detailed in the XML 1.0 Specification (Third Edition). It is an optional attribute. specifies the start time offset that the text starts being relevant to the media object. An example of this would be for closed captioning. It uses the NTP time code format (see: the time attribute used in ). It is an optional attribute. specifies the end time that the text is relevant. If this attribute is not provided, and a time is used, it is expected that the end time is either the end of the clip or the start of the next Allows restrictions to be placed on the aggregator rendering the media in the feed. Currently, restrictions are based on distributor (uri) and country codes. This element is purely informational and no obligation can be assumed or implied. Only one element of the same can be applied to a media object - all others will be ignored. Entities in this element should be space separated. To allow the producer to explicitly declare his/her intentions, two literals are reserved: 'all', 'none'. These literals can only be used once. This element has 1 required attribute, and 1 optional attribute (with strict requirements for its exclusion). indicates the type of relationship that the restriction represents (allow | deny). In the example above, the media object should only be syndicated in Australia and the United States. It is a required attribute. If the "allow" element is empty and the type is relationship is "allow", it is assumed that the empty list means "allow nobody" and the media should not be syndicated. A more explicit method would be: specifies the type of restriction (country | uri) that the media can be syndicated. It is an optional attribute; however can only be excluded when using one of the literal values "all" or "none". "country" allows restrictions to be placed based on country code. [ "uri" allows restrictions based on URI. Examples: urn:apple, http://images.google.com, urn:yahoo, etc. The following are encouraged "best practices" when using Media RSS: If your feed is not an "incremental" in the traditional RSS sense, but rather an entire snapshot of all media available, please take note of the element. This element when set to "false" correctly informs the RSS reader that the current feed replaces the previously fetched feed. If you prefer to syndicate media more along the lines of traditional RSS, this specification also allows you to daisy chain multiple feeds together to compose a history of media that is available on your site. Expirations Using Dublin Core To the best of your ability, media that is scheduled to expire after a given time should be duly noted through Dublin Core's A recently created movie, using the RSS 2.0 element and without the use of the Media RSS module. A movie review with a trailer, using a Creative Commons license. My Movie Review Site Movie Title: Is this a good movie? A music video with a link to a player window, and additional metadata about the video, including expiration date. Discussions of great videos The latest video from an artist Oh, say, can you see, by the dawn's early light Several different songs that relate to the same topic. Discussion on different songs These songs make me think about blah Same song with multiple files at different bitrates and encodings. (Bittorrent example as well) Songs galore at different bitrates Cool song by an artist Thank you to everyone who has contributed to this specification, and to all those that sent suggestions and corrections. The Yahoo! Group " " has been instrumental in helping transform the initial Media RSS proposal into a working specification. While there have been many helpful individuals from this community, special thanks go to Danny Ayers, Marc Canter, Lucas Gonze, Vadim Zaliva, Greg Smith, Robert Sayre, Suzan Foster, Erwin van Hunen, Greg Gershman, Jennifer Kolar, Bill Kearney, and Andreas Haugstrup Pedersen. On the Yahoo! team: David Hall, John Thrall, Eckart Walther, Jeremy Zawodny, Andy Volk, and Bradley Horowitz. On the Google team: David Marwood and Peter Chane. Copyright &copy; 2007 Yahoo! Inc. All rights reserved.
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/technology/6635027.stm	BBC NEWS | Technology | Open your laptops and begin Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Tuesday, 8 May 2007, 12:16 GMT 13:16 UK E-mail this to a friend Open your laptops and begin Perhaps it is time to let our children surf during exams, argues Bill Thompson Is it time to review the way exams are taken? It is exam time in schools around the UK. My son, aged 14, has SATs all week, while my daughter has GCSE papers from next Tuesday onwards. Some of her friends are locked in the art room for their practical exam today and tomorrow, others still have sore thumbs from last week's textiles practical. For the art exam, students can take in material they have prepared in advance, like sketches and ideas, but in general anything that might be considered to give an unfair advantage is forbidden. According to Chailey School in Sussex, this includes "calculator cases/ instruction leaflets, bags, personal TV/stereos, electronic or radio communication devices, including mobile telephones". Bringing these in counts as cheating, and if your mobile is turned on you will fail the whole course, not just one paper. This seems reasonable to those who have been through the exam system, but in fact the idea that you can assess someone's knowledge and ability by getting them to sit isolated in a room for three hours regurgitating facts or writing essays from scratch is a peculiar invention of the modern age. Computers are integral to most lessons in school The history of exams was recently explored on BBC Radio 4 in 'Turn over your papers...now!', an entertaining and witty look at the way written papers, essays and multiple choice tests replaced other forms of assessment. Presented by writer John O'Farrell, it reinforced my view that the way we currently do things has more to do with satisfying the needs of university admission officers and the administrators of the Victorian civil service than helping people show their talents and abilities to the best. And yet the government has recently announced a move away from coursework for GCSEs because they think it makes it too easy to cheat, and because it privileges those children whose parents offer help and support. It will be back to pass or fail exams for my son as he embarks on his GCSE Maths, unlike his coursework-laden sister. And although he will be allowed a calculator, he won't be able to use any of the other computational tools that are available. He may, of course, use a computer to actually sit the exam, but that's a separate matter. Taking multiple-choice tests on a computer is a well-established practice, and though we need to consider the same issues as we do with e-voting, like providing a paper record, it can be made to work. But he will not have a chance to demonstrate his research skills, or his ability to work with others, or his understanding of the core technology that supports so much of modern life, the internet. Today it would be unthinkable to restrict a reporter's access to the net When I began working at The Guardian newspaper in 1995 there was one internet-connected PC on each floor of the building, except in the online department where I worked. This was considered sufficient for the few occasions on which journalists would want to go there for research, because the Atex terminals had access to an array of online databases. Today it would be unthinkable to restrict a reporter's access to the net. Last week my friend Anne had some work done in her front garden, and the gardeners cut through her network cable. This was bad enough for her as a freelance writer, but her daughter - currently taking GCSE art - was distraught and could not be pacified, locked out of the sources she needed to prepare for the crucial practical. In the end, Ric, our local IT support expert, came through and patched the cable, but it was a close run thing. And it highlighted for me the way that the exam system fails to acknowledge this important aspect of our children's education. Giving grades for IT as a core skill is not nearly enough; we need to let them show what they can really do online. Yet school exams do nothing to assess ability in a world where access to computers, the internet and the tools they offer are so embedded in daily life that not being online is unimaginable. I don't think we should completely replace essay questions and three-hour exams. There will always be a need to test knowledge, to try to find out what someone actually knows. But there is an increasing need to find out how someone researches, how they use available resources and how they manage to filter, synthesise and edit the information available to them. Open book exams are already used around the world, letting students use specific reference materials as research aids. Perhaps it's time we considered open laptop exams too, at least for some papers. Bill Thompson is an independent journalist and regular commentator on the BBC World Service programme Digital Planet. E-mail this to a friend The evolution of a giant Watching art imitate life Concern as net hits data limits 'I was wrong about Steve Jobs' Who gains from Wikileaks? The political power of the network The mash-up future of the web 'Why I don't believe Steve Jobs' For want of a file, the net was lost Re-writing the rules of online ID Intellectual property row rages on Degrees 'unfair and misleading' 27 Apr 07 | Education Chailey School exam guidance The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Google searches web's dark side Bandwidth leap for British forces Highest mobile call climb begins MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Vultures pick off human body farm Nasa unveils Hubble's successor Floyd play at Barrett tribute gig Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Two dead children were murdered Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Locals believe police are doing all they can to find Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future How will history judge Tony Blair's war record? Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/uk_politics/6642339.stm	BBC NEWS | Politics | ID card cost rises above £5bn Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Thursday, 10 May 2007, 16:34 GMT 17:34 UK E-mail this to a friend ID card cost rises above £5bn Supporters say ID cards will boost national security. The official cost of the ID card scheme has risen by £400m to £5.31bn, the Home Office says. The figure was released as Tony Blair announced his departure, leading to claims from the opposition that the government was "burying bad news". The Tories also say that the actual rise in costs, when expressed in 2007/08 prices, is £640m. The Home Office say that figure is 'concocted' and the increase was due to staff and anti-fraud expenditure. Amid the row about the actual rise in the cost of the scheme, the Tories and Lib Dems also say that the Home Office broke the law by releasing the updated costings a month later than they should have. Under the Identity Card Act, the government must give an update on the costs of the scheme twice a year. The latest update was due on 9 April. The Home Office said 9 April had fallen during Parliament's Easter holiday and it had released the figures "as soon as we possibly could". The timing with Mr Blair's departure announcement had been coincidental, said a spokeswoman. The £5.31bn cost relates to expected expenditure between 2006 and 2016. Shadow Home Secretary David Davis said: "The public will see through this transparent and pathetic attempt to bury bad news. "It is also no surprise the government has had to revise their cost estimate up by so much. "The public should brace themselves for more increases every time this estimate is updated." Liberal Democrat home affairs spokesman Nick Clegg said: "It is bad enough that the government seeks to bury bad news behind the camouflage of Tony Blair's announcement. "Breaking the law to do so breaks new ground even for Tony Blair's Labour Party." He added: "The costs are now spiralling out of control. On the grounds of expense alone, the government should do us all a favour and abandon this great white elephant before it is too late." A Home Office spokesman said: "The costs report published today shows an actual increase of £40m per annum over ten years - of which 70% will in any case be spent on passports. "As the report sets out, the updated figures take into account extra staff to boost counter-fraud measures as the scheme is implemented." The Home Office added that extra costs were inevitable as British passports were upgraded to meet new international standards and the actual cost to the public of ID cards would not be affected by the latest figures. Liberty Director Shami Chakrabarti said: "The soaring costs and declining support for the grand ID card folly are increasingly inescapable. "Surely this dangerous and expensive idea must leave Number 10 with its author?" Phil Booth, of anti-identity card group NO2ID, added: "With each new analysis, the cost of the ID card scheme spirals." ID cards are not due to become compulsory until at least 2010 when all passport applicants will be issued with ID cards. E-mail this to a friend ID fingerprints plan under fire Giant ID computer plan scrapped ID cards to 'safeguard liberties' Blair goes on ID card offensive ID cards 'in Labour's manifesto' Who wants them, who doesn't - and how they might work What data will ID cards store? ID cards in other countries 'I've got a biometric ID card' Do you support ID cards? Department for Work and Pensions DWP: Report released under Freedom of Information Act The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Labour deputy hopefuls woo MPs SNP and Greens sign working deal MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Vultures pick off human body farm Nasa unveils Hubble's successor Floyd play at Barrett tribute gig Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Two dead children were murdered Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Locals believe police are doing all they can to find Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future How will history judge Tony Blair's war record? Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/sci/tech/6644697.stm	BBC NEWS | Science/Nature | Galileo firms miss key deadline Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Thursday, 10 May 2007, 22:25 GMT 23:25 UK E-mail this to a friend Galileo firms miss key deadline The Galileo spacecraft would be launched in batches The private consortium asked to run Europe's satellite navigation system, Galileo, has missed a key EU deadline for moving the project forward. The European Commission (EC) said the companies had made "insufficient progress", resulting in unacceptable delays and risks for public finances. This is likely to mean European taxpayers stepping in to cover an advance payment for construction costs. The EC is expected to present new plans to overhaul the project on 16 May. These will be sent for approval by the EU's transport ministers in June. The consortium comprises leading aerospace and telecom concerns: EADS, Thales, Inmarsat, Alcatel-Lucent, Finmeccanica, AENA, Hispasat, and TeleOp. The Commission set a 10 May deadline for them to come forward with a single company structure to run Galileo, a chief executive and common position from which to negotiate with EU representatives over the future of the project. On Thursday, the Commission announced that the target had not been met to its satisfaction. Michele Cercone, spokesman for the EC's directorate general for transport, said the Commission now intended to propose "different scenarios to put Galileo on the right track again". Galileo's planned network of 30 satellites will beam radio signals to receiving devices on the ground, helping users pinpoint their locations. The system's technologies are designed to bring greater accuracy and reliability to navigation and timing signals delivered from space. A European Commission and European Space Agency project 30 satellites to be launched in batches by end of 2011-12 Will work alongside US GPS and Russian Glonass systems Promises real-time positioning down to less than a metre Guaranteed under all but most extreme circumstances Suitable for safety-critical roles where lives depend on service Europe lofts Galileo satellite Q&A: Europe's Galileo project Galileo puts UK on map The original intention behind Galileo was that taxpayers in the EU would inject more than one billion euros (£0.7bn) into the early development of the project. The deployment phase - the launch of the satellites and the construction of ground stations - was expected to cost at least two billion more, with two-thirds of the investment being borne by the private sector. The latter was also expected to pick up all the running costs in the long term. The first demonstrator spacecraft, Giove-A, is already in orbit. A second, Giove-B, which has had some technical problems, should be in orbit by the year's end. The contract for the first four satellites proper in the final constellation was awarded at the end of 2004, but the time has now come to order the remaining 26. It should be the private concession making this spacecraft order - but with no progress on its formal establishment, it seems certain that European taxpayers will now have to shoulder a greater burden of the construction costs if Galileo is to stay on track. Mr Cercone said this option would be better for Europe's taxpayers in the long run. He likened the alternative options to the difference between leasing a car and buying one. "When you lease a car you pay less at the start, but it turns out more expensive in the end. When you buy a car for cash, you have to come up with the money sooner, but overall the car will cost less," he told a press briefing in Brussels. "If you apply this example to Galileo, it is less expensive to take on the entire construction of the infrastructure than it would be to guarantee for 100% a private loan at market value, as is the plan of the consortium." Under consortium proposals, public money would be used to guarantee the risks and debts of the project. But Mr Cercone said using public money to cover construction costs offered the best value for money and would protect taxpayers. Galileo was supposed to have started launching its 30 satellites by 2008. However, that date was postponed to 2011/12 due to previous disagreements between EU governments on how to pay for the system. E-mail this to a friend VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS Galileo versus US satellite navigation system Galileo system 'in a deep crisis' 08 May 07 | Science/Nature Galileo companies given deadline 22 Mar 07 | Science/Nature Galileo sat-nav in decisive phase 14 Mar 07 | Science/Nature Europe secures extra Galileo cash 31 Aug 06 | Science/Nature Boost to Galileo sat-nav system 25 Aug 06 | Science/Nature Europe launches Galileo satellite 28 Dec 05 | Science/Nature Navigating future for road charges 29 Dec 05 | Science/Nature European Satellite Navigation Industries Galileo Masters (UK Pages) The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Asian markets push illegal ivory Aboriginal remains fight resolved Red squirrel dies from deadly pox MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Vultures pick off human body farm Nasa unveils Hubble's successor Floyd play at Barrett tribute gig Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Two dead children were murdered Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Locals believe police are doing all they can to find Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future How will history judge Tony Blair's war record? Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/technology/6639417.stm	BBC NEWS | Technology | Facing up to Facebook fears Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Wednesday, 9 May 2007, 13:54 GMT 14:54 UK E-mail this to a friend Facing up to Facebook fears Internet law professor Michael Geist says attempts to block social media sites such as Facebook are misguided. Facebook has seen rapid growth Facebook, the enormously popular social media website, has attracted a remarkable amount of attention in recent weeks. On the heels of student suspensions for posting negative comments about school officials on Facebook, and the integral role the social media site played for student expression during the horrific events at Virginia Tech, the Province of Ontario in Canada last week announced that it was banning access to the site for thousands of bureaucrats and elected officials. While the merits of Facebook are open to debate - some love it, others hate it, and many simply do not understand what the fuss is about - there should be no debating the fact that many of these policy responses are unnecessary, knee-jerk reactions to an emerging social phenomenon that is poorly understood. Facebook launched in February 2004 as a social network site for Harvard University. The site allowed users to chat, post photos and comments, as well as connect with fellow students with common interests through online groups. The site quickly grew, first to other universities and later to high schools. By last summer, it was used by more than 30,000 educational institutions in the US, Canada, and other English-speaking countries, with roughly eight million users. Last September, Facebook opened its virtual doors to the general public by permitting registrations from people in hundreds of geographic areas. The decision, which created some apprehension among the Facebook community, caused the site to explode in popularity. Facebook is used amongst groups of friends Today, there are 21 million Facebook users worldwide and the site is adding 100,000 new users each week. The site has achieved remarkable success in Britain, where it was recently ranked as the twentieth most visited website in the country, up twenty-fold from the prior year. While the number of UK Facebook users was estimated at 200,000 last September, by March 2007 that number had grown to more than 1.3 million registered users. In fact, more than 40 U.K. universities have signed up to Facebook, leading to some criticism that the site "institutionalises gossip". Although most people associate Facebook with social activities, the site can be very useful in mobilising interest around political and policy issues. For example, six weeks ago, Amber MacArthur, a Canadian television reporter, launched a new group called Canadians for Net Neutrality. Today the group has more than 1,100 participants, sharing ideas and concerns about whether Canadian Internet service providers are treating content and applications in an equitable manner. The recent backlash against Facebook has generally on centred around two concerns - derogatory comments and workplace productivity - ironically missing the real sources of concern such as the privacy impact of posting deeply personal information. Many Facebook users openly comment about issues of concern. That naturally includes students posting thoughts about fellow students and teachers or about supervisors at their part-time jobs. Attempts to block such activity are not only bound to fail, but they ultimately cut off decision makers, school officials, and community leaders from their communities In recent months, an Ottawa grocery chain fired several of its employees after company officials discovered negative comments on Facebook, while several Ontario schools have suspended students for posting "offensive" comments about school officials. While companies are obviously entitled to establish the ground rules for employee behaviour, it is hard to see how schools can justify suspending students for simply speaking their minds. It is certainly appropriate to take action against cyber-bullying, however students exercising legitimate free speech should not be punished simply because the speech occurs in a semi-private online forum rather than in a semi-private discussion on school grounds out of earshot of school officials. In fact, educators should seize these opportunities to teach students about both the benefits and drawbacks of social media, while encouraging them to use the tools in positive ways. Facing up to fears The Ontario government ban against Facebook is even more puzzling. Premier Dalton McGuinty indicated that the government does not see how it adds value to the workplace, yet the decision will only further isolate the government from the very public that it serves. Is there really no benefit to have government policy makers access and participate in the hundreds of groups discussing Ontario health care issues? Would it be so bad for elected officials to actually engage with their constituents in a social network environment? The attempts to block Facebook or punish users for stating their opinions fails to appreciate that social network sites are simply the internet generation's equivalent of the town hall, the school cafeteria, or the workplace water cooler - the place where people come together to exchange both ideas and idle gossip. Attempts to block such activity are not only bound to fail, but they ultimately cut off decision makers, school officials, and community leaders from their communities. The answer does not lie in banning Facebook or the other emerging social media sites, but rather in facing up to Facebook fears and learning to use these new tools to engage and educate. Michael Geist holds the Canada Research Chair in Internet and E-commerce Law at the University of Ottawa, Faculty of Law. He can be reached at mgeist@uottawa.ca or online at www.michaelgeist.ca. E-mail this to a friend THE MICHAEL GEIST COLUMN Push for open access to research US copyright lobby out-of-touch Vista gives a view of a new world Helping users help themselves History lessons for YouTube Internet privacy and Icann Switch off sought for TV treaty Free speech, libel and the net The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Google searches web's dark side Bandwidth leap for British forces Highest mobile call climb begins MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Vultures pick off human body farm Nasa unveils Hubble's successor Floyd play at Barrett tribute gig Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Two dead children were murdered Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Locals believe police are doing all they can to find Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future How will history judge Tony Blair's war record? Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/technology/6639977.stm	BBC NEWS | Technology | Sounds bring Google Earth to life Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Thursday, 10 May 2007, 07:37 GMT 08:37 UK E-mail this to a friend Sounds bring Google Earth to life Google Earth offers satellite images of many parts of the world As well as homing in on visual feasts around the globe, users of Google Earth may soon be able to listen to the sounds that accompany them. A Californian company has created software that can layer relevant recorded sounds over locations in Google Earth, New Scientist reports. Wild Sanctuary has over 3,500 hours of soundscapes from all over the world. The firm is in talks with Google, although no official agreement has yet been made. Its director, Bernie Krause said: "A picture tells a thousand words, but a sound tells a thousand pictures." Dr Krause has spent the last 40 years collecting sounds, and his recordings include more than 15,000 animal noises, and sounds from a huge array of habitats, including cities, deserts, mountains and the marine environment. It is the largest library in existence of natural sound, he said. He said the idea would be to zoom-in on a particular area and then have the option to listen to the accompanying sound. "It could be a real beneficial add-on," he said. The software is to be presented at the Where 2.0 conference in San Jose, California on 29 May. Mr Krause said up to two dozen sounds would be show-cased at first, but many more would be added later. If the project is successful, he would also like to use Google Earth show how sounds change with time. He said: "People will be able to get a sense of before and after. "For example, people are talking about how selective logging is an appropriate way of not harming the environment. "But we have evidence that from the sound perspective, selective logging has a profound effect on the natural world. The pictures of before and after look exactly the same, but the sound is completely different." E-mail this to a friend Google Earth turns spotlight on Darfur 11 Apr 07 | Africa Nasa and Google form cosmic union 19 Dec 06 | Technology Google Earth prompts Indian fears 05 Feb 07 | Technology Mobiles ring with sounds of the wild 07 Jul 03 | Technology The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Google searches web's dark side Bandwidth leap for British forces Highest mobile call climb begins MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Vultures pick off human body farm Nasa unveils Hubble's successor Floyd play at Barrett tribute gig Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Two dead children were murdered Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Locals believe police are doing all they can to find Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future How will history judge Tony Blair's war record? Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/technology/6643621.stm	BBC NEWS | Technology | Highest mobile call climb begins Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 09:12 GMT 10:12 UK E-mail this to a friend Highest mobile call climb begins Mr Baber has been in the Himalayas since mid-April A British climber is in the closing stages of an attempt to set a world record for the highest mobile call. Rod Baber is making final preparations to scale Mount Everest and make the call from its north ridge. Following weeks of acclimatisation, Mr Baber is now at base camp recuperating and checking equipment prior to beginning the actual ascent. The expedition will begin its final push on 15 May and aims to reach the summit about eight days later. Mr Baber reached base camp at the foot of Everest in mid-April and since then has been trekking up the mountain to get used to living at high altitude. "It took us three days before we could walk more than 50 steps without running out of breath," he told the BBC News website from base camp in the Himalayas. In the last few weeks the members of the expedition climbing Everest with Mr Baber have reached altitudes of 7,500 metres - the height at which most people start to need oxygen to continue. "We've done some of the most physically demanding sections of the route," he said. The trekking has meant that four members of the expedition have been forced to quit as altitude sickness has left them unable to cope. Now the remaining members of the team, organised by the HimEx climbing group, is recuperating prior to the attempt on the summit. Mr Baber said he had already lost 11kg in weight and was likely to lose five more by the time the attempt was done. Making a mobile call from the top of Everest has become possible as a base station installed in nearby China has line-of-sight to the north ridge of the mountain. Phone reception in the Himalayas has improved as the Chinese army is also at the Everest base camp making preparations to take the Olympic torch to the summit. Mr Baber said the expedition had a "very good" chance of reaching the summit if the weather stayed calm. "But," he said, "it's when Everest lets you climb it, not the other way around." E-mail this to a friend Everest mobile call effort begins 02 Apr 07 | Technology Everest climb for Olympic torch 26 Apr 07 | Asia-Pacific Doctors start Everest medical tests 20 Apr 07 | Health 'Indoor Everest' record is beaten 12 Nov 06 | Oxfordshire Concern over Everest death rate 25 Aug 06 | Health Medical tests at the top of the world 13 Mar 07 | Health The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Google searches web's dark side Bandwidth leap for British forces Highest mobile call climb begins MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Vultures pick off human body farm Nasa unveils Hubble's successor Floyd play at Barrett tribute gig Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Two dead children were murdered Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Locals believe police are doing all they can to find Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future How will history judge Tony Blair's war record? Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/technology/default.stm	BBC NEWS | Technology Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Radio 4's Six O'Clock News Friday, 11 May 2007, 13:31 GMT 14:31 UK Google searches web's dark side One in 10 web pages scrutinised by Google contains malicious code that could infect a user's PC. Malicious code rise driven by web Tips to help you stay safe online Bandwidth leap for British forces UK forces in Afghanistan and Iraq start using their upgraded Skynet satellite communications system. Highest mobile call climb begins A British climber is making final preparations for an attempt to make a mobile phone call from Everest. Nasa unveils Hubble's successor Joost reveals five new investors Galileo firms miss key deadline 'Guessing' robots find their way ID card cost rises above £5bn ALSO IN THE NEWS A wind tunnel and a dash of honey reveal the secrets of bat flight What Lara did next Tomb Raider creators talk about revamping the iconic game figure The site where music fans buy new acts studio time - for profits The US military takes its Iraq campaign to the YouTube website VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS Mind games: Brain controls video game Galileo struggles to compete Bats' secret to flying China climate change warning More Video / Audio News Watch the latest edition of Click MP3 players could boast sat-nav Software to reveal Stasi secrets Sounds bring Google Earth to life Mobile TV predicted to be a hit Second Life 'child abuse' claim Spore game 'delayed until 2008' Facing up to Facebook fears Open your laptops and begin Sounds bring Google Earth to life Second Life 'child abuse' claim Linux evolves for mobile devices IPTV for deaf people takes off Snowflakes promise faster chips The rise and rise of the hyper-connected generation Law professor Michael Geist on why social site bans are wrong The chatter and debate on the most incisive sites ELSEWHERE ON THE BBC Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/sci/tech/6645987.stm	BBC NEWS | Science/Nature | Bandwidth leap for British forces Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 11:37 GMT 12:37 UK E-mail this to a friend Bandwidth leap for British forces Skynet 5 is already supporting operations in Afghanistan UK forces in Afghanistan and Iraq have started using a new satellite system that will see a dramatic improvement in their communications capability. They are now sending voice, images and other data over the Skynet 5A platform. The spacecraft, which was launched in March, is part of a £3.6bn project to upgrade the super-fast connections between command centres. "It's making a clear difference already," Brigadier Simon Shadbolt at the Ministry of Defence told BBC News. "In Afghanistan, where we've been using the system probably more than in Iraq, our troops have seen a noticeable increase in capability." Skynet 5A was launched from Kourou in French Guiana on 11 March. It is the first in what will eventually be a three-spacecraft constellation providing satcoms support to the Army, Royal Navy and RAF, wherever they might be operating across the globe. There was a huge sigh of relief when Skynet 5A went into orbit Malcolm Peto, Paradigm Secure Communications The spacecraft match the sophistication of the very latest civilian platforms used to pass TV, phone and internet traffic - but are "hardened" for military use. They incorporate novel antenna technology that will resist attempts to hijack or "jam" the platforms. Click here to see how the system will be deployed Skynet 5A together with its sister platforms, 5B and 5C (an in-orbit spare), provide two-and-a-half times the bandwidth capacity of the previous system. Over the course of the next few years, they will gradually take over the traffic currently passed through four Skynet 4 spacecraft. And it is expected Skynet 5 will experience heavy demand. Skynet 5A has been tested and pressed into service Information is now key to successful modern military operations. Good examples are the growth in the use of intelligence imagery and the rise of remote-controlled weapons. Unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) produce large volumes of still and moving pictures that need to be sent over networks for analysis and attack planning. Skynet will be particularly useful when the UK takes delivery of Predator B drones for use in Afghanistan. "Skynet gives us capacity - a two-and-a-half times capability enhancement; it's assured - commanders want to know they will get through each time they press the send button; and it's also resilient against computer-based threats," said Brigadier Shadbolt. The Ministry of Defence does not own the Skynet system; the military merely buys the services run over it from a company called Paradigm Secure Communications. This arrangement - the most expensive Private Finance Initiative (PFI) signed by the MoD - allows for spare bandwidth on the new satellites to be sold to "friendly" forces, earning money not just for Paradigm but for the defence department as well. Information is now key to successful modern military operations Paradigm is already providing services to Nato, France, Germany, Canada, Portugal and the Netherlands. It is actively seeking new business in the US, Australia and the Middle East. "There was a huge sigh of relief when Skynet 5A went into orbit because a huge lump of risk was retired. It was a job well done," said Malcolm Peto, managing director of Paradigm Secure Communications. "We're now looking forward to the launch of 5B towards the end of this year, and 5C around the middle of next year; full operational service will come in 2008." Ground control segments for the new system have been upgraded; and ships, planes and land vehicles are being equipped to make the best use of the upgraded Skynet. THE SKYNET 5 MILITARY SATELLITE COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM The satellites are 'hardened' against interference. A special receive antenna (1) can resist attempts at jamming Each spacecraft has four steerable antennas (2) that can concentrate bandwidth on to particular regions The system gives global coverage (3), providing 2.5 times the capacity afforded by the previous system Each spacecraft (4) is a 3x4x4.5m box and weighs just under 5 tonnes; the solar wings once unfurled measure 34m tip to tip Improved technologies, including a solar 'sail' (5), lengthen the platforms' operational lives to at least 15 years Click here to return E-mail this to a friend VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS European rocket powers to record 04 May 07 | Science/Nature British Skynet satellite launched 12 Mar 07 | Science/Nature MoD looks to spirit of Robot Wars 28 Nov 06 | UK Ariane sends satellites to orbit 08 Dec 06 | Science/Nature The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Asian markets push illegal ivory Aboriginal remains fight resolved Red squirrel dies from deadly pox MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Vultures pick off human body farm Nasa unveils Hubble's successor Floyd play at Barrett tribute gig Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Two dead children were murdered Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Locals believe police are doing all they can to find Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future How will history judge Tony Blair's war record? Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/sci/tech/6645987.stm	BBC NEWS | Science/Nature | Bandwidth leap for British forces Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 11:37 GMT 12:37 UK E-mail this to a friend Bandwidth leap for British forces Skynet 5 is already supporting operations in Afghanistan UK forces in Afghanistan and Iraq have started using a new satellite system that will see a dramatic improvement in their communications capability. They are now sending voice, images and other data over the Skynet 5A platform. The spacecraft, which was launched in March, is part of a £3.6bn project to upgrade the super-fast connections between command centres. "It's making a clear difference already," Brigadier Simon Shadbolt at the Ministry of Defence told BBC News. "In Afghanistan, where we've been using the system probably more than in Iraq, our troops have seen a noticeable increase in capability." Skynet 5A was launched from Kourou in French Guiana on 11 March. It is the first in what will eventually be a three-spacecraft constellation providing satcoms support to the Army, Royal Navy and RAF, wherever they might be operating across the globe. There was a huge sigh of relief when Skynet 5A went into orbit Malcolm Peto, Paradigm Secure Communications The spacecraft match the sophistication of the very latest civilian platforms used to pass TV, phone and internet traffic - but are "hardened" for military use. They incorporate novel antenna technology that will resist attempts to hijack or "jam" the platforms. Click here to see how the system will be deployed Skynet 5A together with its sister platforms, 5B and 5C (an in-orbit spare), provide two-and-a-half times the bandwidth capacity of the previous system. Over the course of the next few years, they will gradually take over the traffic currently passed through four Skynet 4 spacecraft. And it is expected Skynet 5 will experience heavy demand. Skynet 5A has been tested and pressed into service Information is now key to successful modern military operations. Good examples are the growth in the use of intelligence imagery and the rise of remote-controlled weapons. Unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) produce large volumes of still and moving pictures that need to be sent over networks for analysis and attack planning. Skynet will be particularly useful when the UK takes delivery of Predator B drones for use in Afghanistan. "Skynet gives us capacity - a two-and-a-half times capability enhancement; it's assured - commanders want to know they will get through each time they press the send button; and it's also resilient against computer-based threats," said Brigadier Shadbolt. The Ministry of Defence does not own the Skynet system; the military merely buys the services run over it from a company called Paradigm Secure Communications. This arrangement - the most expensive Private Finance Initiative (PFI) signed by the MoD - allows for spare bandwidth on the new satellites to be sold to "friendly" forces, earning money not just for Paradigm but for the defence department as well. Information is now key to successful modern military operations Paradigm is already providing services to Nato, France, Germany, Canada, Portugal and the Netherlands. It is actively seeking new business in the US, Australia and the Middle East. "There was a huge sigh of relief when Skynet 5A went into orbit because a huge lump of risk was retired. It was a job well done," said Malcolm Peto, managing director of Paradigm Secure Communications. "We're now looking forward to the launch of 5B towards the end of this year, and 5C around the middle of next year; full operational service will come in 2008." Ground control segments for the new system have been upgraded; and ships, planes and land vehicles are being equipped to make the best use of the upgraded Skynet. THE SKYNET 5 MILITARY SATELLITE COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM The satellites are 'hardened' against interference. A special receive antenna (1) can resist attempts at jamming Each spacecraft has four steerable antennas (2) that can concentrate bandwidth on to particular regions The system gives global coverage (3), providing 2.5 times the capacity afforded by the previous system Each spacecraft (4) is a 3x4x4.5m box and weighs just under 5 tonnes; the solar wings once unfurled measure 34m tip to tip Improved technologies, including a solar 'sail' (5), lengthen the platforms' operational lives to at least 15 years Click here to return E-mail this to a friend VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS European rocket powers to record 04 May 07 | Science/Nature British Skynet satellite launched 12 Mar 07 | Science/Nature MoD looks to spirit of Robot Wars 28 Nov 06 | UK Ariane sends satellites to orbit 08 Dec 06 | Science/Nature The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Asian markets push illegal ivory Aboriginal remains fight resolved Red squirrel dies from deadly pox MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Vultures pick off human body farm Nasa unveils Hubble's successor Floyd play at Barrett tribute gig Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Two dead children were murdered Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Locals believe police are doing all they can to find Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future How will history judge Tony Blair's war record? Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://www.bbc.co.uk/syndication/	BBC Headlines for your site Put the latest headlines on your website, free of charge. Whether you are an experienced webmaster, or running a website for friends and family, adding a BBC News, BBC Sport, or CBBC Headline Box is simple with our four-step process, which you can complete online. Are you eligible to sign-up? The BBC Headline Boxes are available to all public access (no intranets), UK-based sites, subject to certain criteria. Click to read the criteria. If you then wish to apply, click the 'Sign up here' button. BBC News makes most of its news sections avalable in two XML formats - RSS and BBC News XML. If you would like to discuss either of these options with a Business Development manager, please complete the form below. Please select from the options below Please enter any additional information: Please enter your e-mail address: I would like to report a problem I would like to discuss RSS/XML Privacy & Cookies Policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/technology/6639249.stm	BBC NEWS | Technology | Mobile TV predicted to be a hit Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Wednesday, 9 May 2007, 13:59 GMT 14:59 UK E-mail this to a friend Mobile TV predicted to be a hit There are many competing services available on mobiles Mobile TV in action TV could overtake gaming and music as the consumer's favoured application for mobile phones, according to research. Services in Japan, South Korea and Italy are attracting millions, confounding critics who said people would not watch TV on a small device. But consumers remain confused by what is on offer, as competing service offer different content and quality. For the UK, a shortage of spectrum needed for mobile TV means adoption of services might have to wait until 2012. Research firm Screen Digest forecasts that mobile TV will put gaming and music in the shade. It predicted that there will be 140 million global subscribers generating revenue of £3.1bn by 2011. "There has been a lot of cynicism about mobile TV and the big unanswered question has been whether people would watch it. For us that has been answered," said Dave MacQueen, senior mobile analyst with Screen Digest. A slow-down in mobile gaming and the fact that music via mobiles is unlikely to be a money-spinner for operators as people continue to 'side-load' music from their PCs, makes TV the best option for operators to make money, thinks Mr MacQueen. As data services fail to make huge revenues and with regulatory and competitive pressures meaning the money people spend on voice and messaging is falling, operators need to make mobile TV a success, he said. In Japan and South Korea there are now 5.8m people watching TV on their mobile phones, and even more watching TV on other hand-held devices and via in-car systems. In Italy there are 500,000 subscribers to newly-launched mobile TV services such as that run by Vodafone in conjunction with Sky Italia. The Vodafone service offers consumers the choice of 17 channels and can be paid for either monthly or is offered free for people that sign up to contracts. For David McQueen, principal analyst with research firm Informa, mobile TV offers operators the chance to draw people away from increasingly popular pay-as-you-go services to the more profitable contract services. The spectrum allocation issue is unique to the UK and it means the UK is behind in terms of mobile TV There are a variety of ways to deliver TV to mobile phones and individual countries are adopting different technologies. For example Vodafone's service in the UK is delivered via 3G which has a maximum capacity of around 15 users per 2km radius. This means it would not be able to support mass market uptake, although it is ideally suited for offering 'catch-up' TV services such as that offered by 3. By contrast, so-called broadcast TV has infinite capacity but cannot offer catch-up services, although there are now handsets coming on the market which are capable of recording TV. Dave MacQueen believes that consumers are going to be most interested in watching simulcast TV, where the programming on mobile devices mirrors that of conventional TV. This brings its own problems because peak viewing on conventional TV does not coincide with how people consume TV via their mobiles - mainly in short bursts early in the morning and on the way home from work. It all makes for a confusing picture for consumers, say market watchers, and it gets even more complicated in the UK where true broadcast TV to mobiles will have to wait until spectrum is freed up in 2012. "The spectrum allocation issue is unique to the UK and it means the UK is behind in terms of mobile TV," said Mr McQueen. E-mail this to a friend Mobile TV warned to standardise 16 Mar 07 | Technology Personalised adverts on mobile TV 14 Dec 06 | Technology Mobile TV sports viewing is on the move 19 Nov 06 | Business Will mobile TV make moving viewing? 29 Sep 06 | Entertainment Mobile TV scores in Asia 22 Jun 06 | Technology The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Google searches web's dark side Bandwidth leap for British forces Highest mobile call climb begins MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Vultures pick off human body farm Nasa unveils Hubble's successor Floyd play at Barrett tribute gig Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Two dead children were murdered Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Locals believe police are doing all they can to find Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future How will history judge Tony Blair's war record? Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/technology/6643621.stm	BBC NEWS | Technology | Highest mobile call climb begins Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 09:12 GMT 10:12 UK E-mail this to a friend Highest mobile call climb begins Mr Baber has been in the Himalayas since mid-April A British climber is in the closing stages of an attempt to set a world record for the highest mobile call. Rod Baber is making final preparations to scale Mount Everest and make the call from its north ridge. Following weeks of acclimatisation, Mr Baber is now at base camp recuperating and checking equipment prior to beginning the actual ascent. The expedition will begin its final push on 15 May and aims to reach the summit about eight days later. Mr Baber reached base camp at the foot of Everest in mid-April and since then has been trekking up the mountain to get used to living at high altitude. "It took us three days before we could walk more than 50 steps without running out of breath," he told the BBC News website from base camp in the Himalayas. In the last few weeks the members of the expedition climbing Everest with Mr Baber have reached altitudes of 7,500 metres - the height at which most people start to need oxygen to continue. "We've done some of the most physically demanding sections of the route," he said. The trekking has meant that four members of the expedition have been forced to quit as altitude sickness has left them unable to cope. Now the remaining members of the team, organised by the HimEx climbing group, is recuperating prior to the attempt on the summit. Mr Baber said he had already lost 11kg in weight and was likely to lose five more by the time the attempt was done. Making a mobile call from the top of Everest has become possible as a base station installed in nearby China has line-of-sight to the north ridge of the mountain. Phone reception in the Himalayas has improved as the Chinese army is also at the Everest base camp making preparations to take the Olympic torch to the summit. Mr Baber said the expedition had a "very good" chance of reaching the summit if the weather stayed calm. "But," he said, "it's when Everest lets you climb it, not the other way around." E-mail this to a friend Everest mobile call effort begins 02 Apr 07 | Technology Everest climb for Olympic torch 26 Apr 07 | Asia-Pacific Doctors start Everest medical tests 20 Apr 07 | Health 'Indoor Everest' record is beaten 12 Nov 06 | Oxfordshire Concern over Everest death rate 25 Aug 06 | Health Medical tests at the top of the world 13 Mar 07 | Health The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Google searches web's dark side Bandwidth leap for British forces Highest mobile call climb begins MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Vultures pick off human body farm Nasa unveils Hubble's successor Floyd play at Barrett tribute gig Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Two dead children were murdered Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Locals believe police are doing all they can to find Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future How will history judge Tony Blair's war record? Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/technology/6639977.stm	BBC NEWS | Technology | Sounds bring Google Earth to life Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Thursday, 10 May 2007, 07:37 GMT 08:37 UK E-mail this to a friend Sounds bring Google Earth to life Google Earth offers satellite images of many parts of the world As well as homing in on visual feasts around the globe, users of Google Earth may soon be able to listen to the sounds that accompany them. A Californian company has created software that can layer relevant recorded sounds over locations in Google Earth, New Scientist reports. Wild Sanctuary has over 3,500 hours of soundscapes from all over the world. The firm is in talks with Google, although no official agreement has yet been made. Its director, Bernie Krause said: "A picture tells a thousand words, but a sound tells a thousand pictures." Dr Krause has spent the last 40 years collecting sounds, and his recordings include more than 15,000 animal noises, and sounds from a huge array of habitats, including cities, deserts, mountains and the marine environment. It is the largest library in existence of natural sound, he said. He said the idea would be to zoom-in on a particular area and then have the option to listen to the accompanying sound. "It could be a real beneficial add-on," he said. The software is to be presented at the Where 2.0 conference in San Jose, California on 29 May. Mr Krause said up to two dozen sounds would be show-cased at first, but many more would be added later. If the project is successful, he would also like to use Google Earth show how sounds change with time. He said: "People will be able to get a sense of before and after. "For example, people are talking about how selective logging is an appropriate way of not harming the environment. "But we have evidence that from the sound perspective, selective logging has a profound effect on the natural world. The pictures of before and after look exactly the same, but the sound is completely different." E-mail this to a friend Google Earth turns spotlight on Darfur 11 Apr 07 | Africa Nasa and Google form cosmic union 19 Dec 06 | Technology Google Earth prompts Indian fears 05 Feb 07 | Technology Mobiles ring with sounds of the wild 07 Jul 03 | Technology The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Google searches web's dark side Bandwidth leap for British forces Highest mobile call climb begins MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Vultures pick off human body farm Nasa unveils Hubble's successor Floyd play at Barrett tribute gig Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Two dead children were murdered Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Locals believe police are doing all they can to find Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future How will history judge Tony Blair's war record? Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/business/6645703.stm	BBC NEWS | Business | Joost reveals five new investors Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 08:35 GMT 09:35 UK E-mail this to a friend Joost reveals five new investors Joost has 150 channels of online content Joost, the on-demand video service from the founders of Skype, has raised $45m (£22.8m) from five investors including the broadcasters CBS and Viacom. Janus Friis and Niklas Zennstroem set up Joost in January 2006 to offer broadband users full-screen, high-quality video on their computers. CBS and Viacom are already content providers for the service. The other investors are Index Ventures, Sequoia Capital and Li Ka-shing, the chairman of Hutchison Whampoa. Index Ventures is a European venture capital firm, while Sequoia Capital is described as having been the first investor and business partner of companies making up 10% of the value of the Nasdaq hi-tech index. Mr Friis and Mr Zennstroem were also behind the music site Kazaa, which was unpopular with the music industry because people used it to download music without paying for it. There are not expected to be any such problems with Joost, which has signed deals with content providers such as Viacom, which is providing content from MTV, Nickelodeon, Paramount and Comedy Central. Online video viewing has taken off as broadband connections have become more popular, but there is some concern that people with monthly download limits on their connections may have to pay more if they use Joost. E-mail this to a friend Joost opens online video service 01 May 07 | Business CBS to launch online TV network 12 Apr 07 | Business Viacom in video deal with Joost 20 Feb 07 | Technology The Skype roadmap: Trial and error 26 Jan 07 | Business Skype founders move into net TV 16 Jan 07 | Technology The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Inflation 'pushing up pay deals' People 'pay less into pensions' Postal workers to vote on strikes MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Vultures pick off human body farm Nasa unveils Hubble's successor Floyd play at Barrett tribute gig Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Two dead children were murdered Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Locals believe police are doing all they can to find Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future How will history judge Tony Blair's war record? Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/sci/tech/6644697.stm	BBC NEWS | Science/Nature | Galileo firms miss key deadline Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Thursday, 10 May 2007, 22:25 GMT 23:25 UK E-mail this to a friend Galileo firms miss key deadline The Galileo spacecraft would be launched in batches The private consortium asked to run Europe's satellite navigation system, Galileo, has missed a key EU deadline for moving the project forward. The European Commission (EC) said the companies had made "insufficient progress", resulting in unacceptable delays and risks for public finances. This is likely to mean European taxpayers stepping in to cover an advance payment for construction costs. The EC is expected to present new plans to overhaul the project on 16 May. These will be sent for approval by the EU's transport ministers in June. The consortium comprises leading aerospace and telecom concerns: EADS, Thales, Inmarsat, Alcatel-Lucent, Finmeccanica, AENA, Hispasat, and TeleOp. The Commission set a 10 May deadline for them to come forward with a single company structure to run Galileo, a chief executive and common position from which to negotiate with EU representatives over the future of the project. On Thursday, the Commission announced that the target had not been met to its satisfaction. Michele Cercone, spokesman for the EC's directorate general for transport, said the Commission now intended to propose "different scenarios to put Galileo on the right track again". Galileo's planned network of 30 satellites will beam radio signals to receiving devices on the ground, helping users pinpoint their locations. The system's technologies are designed to bring greater accuracy and reliability to navigation and timing signals delivered from space. A European Commission and European Space Agency project 30 satellites to be launched in batches by end of 2011-12 Will work alongside US GPS and Russian Glonass systems Promises real-time positioning down to less than a metre Guaranteed under all but most extreme circumstances Suitable for safety-critical roles where lives depend on service Europe lofts Galileo satellite Q&A: Europe's Galileo project Galileo puts UK on map The original intention behind Galileo was that taxpayers in the EU would inject more than one billion euros (£0.7bn) into the early development of the project. The deployment phase - the launch of the satellites and the construction of ground stations - was expected to cost at least two billion more, with two-thirds of the investment being borne by the private sector. The latter was also expected to pick up all the running costs in the long term. The first demonstrator spacecraft, Giove-A, is already in orbit. A second, Giove-B, which has had some technical problems, should be in orbit by the year's end. The contract for the first four satellites proper in the final constellation was awarded at the end of 2004, but the time has now come to order the remaining 26. It should be the private concession making this spacecraft order - but with no progress on its formal establishment, it seems certain that European taxpayers will now have to shoulder a greater burden of the construction costs if Galileo is to stay on track. Mr Cercone said this option would be better for Europe's taxpayers in the long run. He likened the alternative options to the difference between leasing a car and buying one. "When you lease a car you pay less at the start, but it turns out more expensive in the end. When you buy a car for cash, you have to come up with the money sooner, but overall the car will cost less," he told a press briefing in Brussels. "If you apply this example to Galileo, it is less expensive to take on the entire construction of the infrastructure than it would be to guarantee for 100% a private loan at market value, as is the plan of the consortium." Under consortium proposals, public money would be used to guarantee the risks and debts of the project. But Mr Cercone said using public money to cover construction costs offered the best value for money and would protect taxpayers. Galileo was supposed to have started launching its 30 satellites by 2008. However, that date was postponed to 2011/12 due to previous disagreements between EU governments on how to pay for the system. E-mail this to a friend VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS Galileo versus US satellite navigation system Galileo system 'in a deep crisis' 08 May 07 | Science/Nature Galileo companies given deadline 22 Mar 07 | Science/Nature Galileo sat-nav in decisive phase 14 Mar 07 | Science/Nature Europe secures extra Galileo cash 31 Aug 06 | Science/Nature Boost to Galileo sat-nav system 25 Aug 06 | Science/Nature Europe launches Galileo satellite 28 Dec 05 | Science/Nature Navigating future for road charges 29 Dec 05 | Science/Nature European Satellite Navigation Industries Galileo Masters (UK Pages) The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Asian markets push illegal ivory Aboriginal remains fight resolved Red squirrel dies from deadly pox MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Vultures pick off human body farm Nasa unveils Hubble's successor Floyd play at Barrett tribute gig Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Two dead children were murdered Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Locals believe police are doing all they can to find Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future How will history judge Tony Blair's war record? Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/technology/6645895.stm	BBC NEWS | Technology | Google searches web's dark side Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 11:37 GMT 12:37 UK E-mail this to a friend Google searches web's dark side Malicious programs are installed by visits to a booby-trapped site One in 10 web pages scrutinised by search giant Google contained malicious code that could infect a user's PC. Researchers from the firm surveyed billions of sites, subjecting 4.5 million pages to "in-depth analysis". About 450,000 were capable of launching so-called "drive-by downloads", sites that install malicious code, such as spyware, without a user's knowledge. A further 700,000 pages were thought to contain code that could compromise a user's computer, the team report. To address the problem, the researchers say the company has "started an effort to identify all web pages on the internet that could be malicious". Drive-by downloads are an increasingly common way to infect a computer or steal sensitive information. They usually consist of malicious programs that automatically install when a potential victim visits a booby-trapped website. "To entice users to install malware, adversaries employ social engineering," wrote Google researcher Niels Provos and his colleagues in a paper titled The Ghost In The Browser. Finding all the web-based infection vectors is a significant challenge and requires almost complete knowledge of the web "The user is presented with links that promise access to 'interesting' pages with explicit pornographic content, copyrighted software or media. A common example are sites that display thumbnails to adult videos." The vast majority exploit vulnerabilities in Microsoft's Internet Explorer browser to install themselves. Some downloads, such as those that alter bookmarks, install unwanted toolbars or change the start page of a browser, are an annoyance. But increasingly, criminals are using drive-bys to install keyloggers that steal login and password information. Other pieces of malicious code hijack a computer turning it into a "bot", a remotely controlled PC. Drive-by downloads represent a shift away from traditional methods of infecting a computer, such as spam and email attachments. As well as characterising the scale of the problem on the net, the Google study analysed the main methods by which criminals inject malicious code on to innocent web pages. Spam e-mails are a common way to infect a computer It found that the code was often contained in those parts of the website not designed or controlled by the website owner, such as banner adverts and widgets. Widgets are small programs that may, for example, display a calendar on a webpage or a web traffic counter. These are often downloaded form third party sites. The rise of web 2.0 and user-generated content gave criminals other channels, or vectors, of attack, it found. For example, postings in blogs and forums that contain links to images or other content could unwittingly infect a user. The study also found that gangs were able to hijack web servers, effectively taking over and infecting all of the web pages hosted on the computer. In a test, the researchers' computer was infected with 50 different pieces of malware by visiting a web page hosted on a hijacked server. The firm is now in the process of mapping the malware threat. Google, part of the StopBadware coalition, already warns users if they are about to visit a potentially harmful website, displaying a message that reads "this site may harm your computer" next to the search results. "Marking pages with a label allows users to avoid exposure to such sites and results in fewer users being infected," the researchers wrote. However, the task will not be easy, they say. "Finding all the web-based infection vectors is a significant challenge and requires almost complete knowledge of the web as a whole," they wrote. E-mail this to a friend VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS How viruses and worms attack computers Malicious code rise driven by web 25 Apr 07 | Technology Tips to help you stay safe online 07 Oct 06 | Technology Hi-tech crime: A glossary 05 Oct 06 | UK Lords offer new angle on e-crime 24 Apr 07 | Technology Google research paper (PDF) The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Google searches web's dark side Bandwidth leap for British forces Highest mobile call climb begins MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Vultures pick off human body farm Nasa unveils Hubble's successor Floyd play at Barrett tribute gig Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Two dead children were murdered Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Locals believe police are doing all they can to find Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future How will history judge Tony Blair's war record? Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/business/6645703.stm	BBC NEWS | Business | Joost reveals five new investors Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 08:35 GMT 09:35 UK E-mail this to a friend Joost reveals five new investors Joost has 150 channels of online content Joost, the on-demand video service from the founders of Skype, has raised $45m (£22.8m) from five investors including the broadcasters CBS and Viacom. Janus Friis and Niklas Zennstroem set up Joost in January 2006 to offer broadband users full-screen, high-quality video on their computers. CBS and Viacom are already content providers for the service. The other investors are Index Ventures, Sequoia Capital and Li Ka-shing, the chairman of Hutchison Whampoa. Index Ventures is a European venture capital firm, while Sequoia Capital is described as having been the first investor and business partner of companies making up 10% of the value of the Nasdaq hi-tech index. Mr Friis and Mr Zennstroem were also behind the music site Kazaa, which was unpopular with the music industry because people used it to download music without paying for it. There are not expected to be any such problems with Joost, which has signed deals with content providers such as Viacom, which is providing content from MTV, Nickelodeon, Paramount and Comedy Central. Online video viewing has taken off as broadband connections have become more popular, but there is some concern that people with monthly download limits on their connections may have to pay more if they use Joost. E-mail this to a friend Joost opens online video service 01 May 07 | Business CBS to launch online TV network 12 Apr 07 | Business Viacom in video deal with Joost 20 Feb 07 | Technology The Skype roadmap: Trial and error 26 Jan 07 | Business Skype founders move into net TV 16 Jan 07 | Technology The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Inflation 'pushing up pay deals' People 'pay less into pensions' Postal workers to vote on strikes MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Vultures pick off human body farm Nasa unveils Hubble's successor Floyd play at Barrett tribute gig Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Two dead children were murdered Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Locals believe police are doing all they can to find Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future How will history judge Tony Blair's war record? Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/world/americas/6645179.stm	BBC NEWS | World | Americas | Nasa unveils Hubble's successor Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 00:00 GMT 01:00 UK E-mail this to a friend Nasa unveils Hubble's successor The model of the JWST is on display in Washington DC. The US space agency Nasa has unveiled a model of a space telescope that scientists say will be able to see to the farthest reaches of the Universe. The James Webb Space Telescope (JWST) is intended to replace the ageing Hubble telescope. It will be larger than its predecessor, sit farther from Earth and have a giant mirror to enable it to see more. Officials said the JWST - named after a former Nasa administrator - was on course for launch in June 2013. The full-scale model is being displayed outside the Smithsonian National Air and Space Museum in the US capital, Washington DC. It was recently shown off in Seattle at the American Astronomical Society meeting. The $4.5bn (£2.3bn) telescope will take up a position some 1.5 million km (930,000 miles) from Earth. It will measure 24m (80ft) long by 12m (40ft) high and incorporate a hexagonal mirror 6.5m (21.3ft) in diameter, almost three times the size of Hubble's. Hubble, launched in 1990, has sent back pictures of our solar system, distant stars, and remote fledgling galaxies formed not long after the Big Bang. But scientists say the JWST will enable them to look deeper into space and even further back at the origins of the Universe. "Clearly we need a much bigger telescope to go back much further in time to see the very birth of the Universe," said Edward Weiler, director of Nasa's Goddard Space Flight Centre. Martin Mohan of Northrop Grumman, the contractor building the telescope, said that the team was making excellent progress. "There's engineering to do, but invention is done, more than six years ahead of launch," he said. When ready, the JWST will be launched by a European Ariane 5 rocket. It is expected to have a 10-year lifespan. Until then, the 17-year-old Hubble telescope will continue to do its work. Nasa plans to send astronauts on the space shuttle to service it in 2008. THE JAMES WEBB SPACE TELESCOPE JWST is named after James E Webb, Nasa Administrator during the Apollo lunar exploration era; he served from 1961 to 1968 It will be placed 1.5m km from Earth, at Lagrange Point 2, an area of gravitational balance that keeps it in a Sun-Earth line The telescope will be shaded from sunlight by a shield, enabling it to stay cold, increasing its sensitivity to infrared radiation Three principal instruments will gather images of the Universe in the infrared region of the spectrum These will yield new information about how stars and galaxies first formed a few hundred million years after the Big Bang E-mail this to a friend Telescope mirror nears completion 08 Feb 07 | Science/Nature First stars in telescope's sights 12 Jan 07 | Science/Nature Large camera delights astronomers 10 Nov 03 | Science/Nature The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Pope creates Brazil's first saint UK police face no action on shooting Nasa unveils Hubble's successor MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Vultures pick off human body farm Nasa unveils Hubble's successor Floyd play at Barrett tribute gig Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Two dead children were murdered Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Locals believe police are doing all they can to find Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future How will history judge Tony Blair's war record? Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/technology/6638771.stm	BBC NEWS | Technology | Spore game 'delayed until 2008' Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Wednesday, 9 May 2007, 11:47 GMT 12:47 UK E-mail this to a friend Spore game 'delayed until 2008' Spore lets players create and control their own creatures Gamers are being forced to wait to get their hands on Spore - the next creation by gaming legend Will Wright. Publisher Electronic Arts has announced that the title will now be delayed until 2008. The ambitious title lets players create and control creatures from their cellular beginnings through to when they conquer space. Although no official release for Spore has been given by EA, it was expected to be available for Christmas 2007. The news about Spore came during a quarterly earnings report from EA during which it issued a warning about future profits. The company said it could no longer depend on profits from Spore in the financial year that ends in March 2008. This means that Spore is unlikely to be on shop shelves until later in 2008. The game was first announced in 2005 and since then has generated enormous interest. The creation of Will Wright, the brains behind such iconic games as SimCity and The Sims, the title aimed to give players unprecedented freedom to mould their creations. As well as letting players guide their creations through sentience to mastery of the stars, it planned to let the different civilisations created by players meet and interact via the net. EA said the depressed profits for the next financial year were also a result of the investments it had made in online gaming. During the quarter that ended on 31 March, EA lost $25m (£12.5m) on revenues of $641m (£322m). E-mail this to a friend User-generated future for gaming 19 May 06 | Click Sims creator takes on evolution 26 May 05 | Technology New consoles promise big problems 15 Mar 05 | Technology Students designing Eden web games 06 May 07 | Cornwall World of Warcraft game 'delayed' 26 Oct 06 | Technology Lethal guinea pig kills virtual people 12 May 00 | Sci/Tech Simulating life, love and the Universe 17 Sep 04 | Technology The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Google searches web's dark side Bandwidth leap for British forces Highest mobile call climb begins MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Vultures pick off human body farm Guinea soldiers suspend protest Drinking at home 'cuts bingeing' Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Two dead children were murdered Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Locals believe police are doing all they can to find Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future How will history judge Tony Blair's war record? Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/technology/6638209.stm	BBC NEWS | Technology | 'Guessing' robots find their way Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Thursday, 10 May 2007, 07:26 GMT 08:26 UK E-mail this to a friend 'Guessing' robots find their way The robots use educated "guesswork" to find their way around Robots that use "guesswork" to navigate through unfamiliar surroundings are being developed by US researchers. The mobile machines create maps of areas they have already explored and then use this information to predict what unknown environments will be like. Trials in office buildings showed that the robots were able to find their way around, New Scientist reported. Making robots that can navigate without prior knowledge of their surroundings was a huge challenge, the team said. It works well in indoor environments Most mobile robots do this using a technique called SLAM (simultaneous localisation and mapping), whereby they build up a map of their unknown environment, using various sensors, whilst keeping track of their current position at the same time. But this technique is slow because a robot must explore a great deal of terrain to know its precise location. It is also prone to errors. So the team from Purdue University, in Indiana, has developed a new approach. The robots create a 2D map of the area they are exploring, but when they come to an unknown area, they check back through this information to see if it seems similar to any areas that have already explored. They do this using an algorithm - a step-by-step problem solving procedure. Professor George Lee who carried out the research, said: "The robot gets to a new area and thinks: 'Have I seen these sorts of things before?' Then it goes back and looks at its stored data. "It might then think: 'Hey, this is very, very similar to something I've seen before, I don't need to explore that room or corner.' And this saves time for it to explore other areas." He said it was similar to the human navigational process, where we build up a "mental map" of our surroundings by recognising familiar sights. The scientists first tested the algorithm using virtual mazes and offices. Their computer models revealed that the robots could navigate successfully while exploring a third less of their environment than robots that simply used SLAM. Then tests carried out using real robots inside a university office building showed that the new navigation technique was also faster and less prone to errors than SLAM. However, the new method did have some limitations, Professor Lee said. "Indoors, in places like office buildings, it works well; outdoors, where the scene isn't as repetitive, the result is not that good." Self-navigating robots could have many applications, Professor Lee told the BBC News Website. The US defence department is currently focusing on self-driving automobiles. Professor Lee's research was funded by the National Science Foundation and was published in the journal IEEE Transactions on Robotics. E-mail this to a friend Robot rally cars face tough race 31 Oct 06 | Technology Roboshark to hunt tourists 31 Dec 04 | Science/Nature Robots get bookish in libraries 21 Jul 04 | Technology Robotic bollards to take control 28 Apr 04 | Science/Nature Honda's humanoid robot hits UK 16 Feb 04 | Technology IEEE Transactions on Robotics. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Google searches web's dark side Bandwidth leap for British forces Highest mobile call climb begins MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Vultures pick off human body farm Guinea soldiers suspend protest Drinking at home 'cuts bingeing' Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Two dead children were murdered Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Locals believe police are doing all they can to find Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future How will history judge Tony Blair's war record? Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
