http://www.komotv.com/news/entertainment/7460657.html	Years after singles were killed off, digital tracks now dominate | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Entertainment Years after singles were killed off, digital tracks now dominate Story Published: May 11, 2007 at 7:44 AM PDT Story Updated: May 11, 2007 at 7:44 AM PDT NEW YORK (AP) - It sounds like a horror movie: a beloved friend is callously exterminated, then reincarnated in a different form to wreak havoc on the killer. That's the nightmare currently facing the music industry. Almost a decade after virtually eliminating 45s and cassette singles, thereby forcing fans to spend more money on whole albums, the digital single is largely responsible for the industry's woes. Consumers no longer need to buy an album if they want that cool jam they heard on the radio - and in growing numbers, they're choosing 99-cent downloads over $15 CDs. Some worry this trend is worsening the quality of albums as a cohesive musical work, and that label executives are more and more interested in quick hits than lasting music or artists. While the vast majority of music consumers still buy CD albums, they are buying less of them, while digital tracks are exploding: According to Nielsen SoundScan, sales of physical CDs this year have declined 20 percent from the same point in 2006, from 112 million to 89 million. Digital tracks are up to 288 million from 242 million at the same period last year. And that's not counting the millions of singles that are illegally downloaded. "Now, we're in a very difference place in terms of the single business," Jim Donio, president of National Association of Recording Merchandisers, said in an interview. "The single business is alive and well, and it's in the form of track downloads." The same cannot be said, however, for albums. Even counting albums that are downloaded along with physical CDs sold, album sales are down 10 percent from the same period last year, according to Nielsen SoundScan, continuing a decline that has been growing for several years. The industry's hard times are evident in recent label consolidations, widespread layoffs, reduction in budgets and an overall air of belt-tightening. In 1996, music companies shipped more than 1.1 billion units - all physical product - for a value of $12.5 billion, according to the Recording Industry Association of America. Ten years later, despite a decline in physical product sold, they industry has "shipped" approximately 1.6 billion units - but its value is down by a billion dollars, to $11.5 billion. "There's probably a fair amount of purchases that would have been albums but are now individual track sales instead," said Geoff Mayfield, director of charts at Billboard magazine. And at 99 cents or so, singles bring in much less profit than albums (which is why iTunes has been pressured by record companies to raise their prices). Other signs show of the singles-driven market: One of the most consistent album chart-toppers is the blockbuster "Now That's What I Call Music!" series, which features a compilation of the hottest tracks of the season and routinely debuts at No. 1. And of course there is the enormous popularity of music download services like iTunes. Recently, iTunes introduce its "Complete the Album" feature, an enticement which gives credit for songs purchased from an album toward purchasing the rest of it. The question remains whether consumers are as interested in completing the albums as they used to. Ciara hopes so. The 21-year-old's latest platinum album, "Ciara: The Evolution," on La Face/Jive Records (a unit of Sony BMG Music Entertainment, a joint venture between Sony Corp. and Bertelsmann AG) wasn't designed to provide just hits, but as an entire experience about her development into a woman, complete with interludes between the tracks. "For me growing up, there was nothing like listening to an album that you could literally sit down and listen to from the beginning to the end," she said. "It can't just be about singles. That's the purpose of an album, it's almost like a story within itself." Avril Lavigne, 22, who's latest album "The Best Damn Thing" on RCA (also a part of Sony BMG) debuted at No. 1, is also still in love with the album: "I'm so all about going to the store and buy a CD." "(But) times are changing," she added. Someday "people aren't going to do records, they're just going to do singles, probably." That would have been hard to believe just a few years ago, given that the single - which gave birth to the recording industry and dominated it for decades - was virtually phased out at a time of huge industry profits. While there are still physical singles in stores, the numbers are so minute that Nielsen SoundScan doesn't even track them. "We tried to stop selling a commercial single because people were making great, great records and albums were selling like hotcakes," says longtime music industry executive Steve Rifkind, founder Street Records Corporation, home to platinum singer/producer Akon, and Loud.com. But removing the option of purchasing a single may not have helped the album much, either - and may have actually boosted the original illegal downloading services like Napster, says Mayfield. "The notion that someone would jump to an album-length purchase because they couldn't find the one song they wanted available was a naive one," he said. Rifkind acknowledges that "we are definitely in a singles market," - but blames the problem on a lack of creativity and "lazy" executives. "People are going after one hit. They are not really caring what the album sounds like ... They are not into artist development anymore. If us as an industry went and started developing talent again, and not worrying about one hit, it would be more than a singles-driven business again." In a recent interview with The Associated Press, Jay-Z, the superstar rapper and president of Def Jam Records, also blamed the quality of the music for the current climate. "We're making disposable music. You can't make disposable music again and again and again and again and not expect anything to happen. We have these huge radio records ... and then won't sell any records," he said. "If you're making just songs, they'll listen to it in the clubs, that's great, they'll listen to it in their car, that's beautiful. Will they buy it? No." Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Passenger killed on Interstate 5 by loose truck wheels Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/entertainment	KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Entertainment Fans turn out to greet local 'Idol' finalist Blake Lewis returned to Seattle on Friday, playing a concert before more than a thousand fans. He was joined onstage by Seattle's own Sir Mix-A-Lot, who sang his hit 'Baby Got Back' over what many in the crowd came to see: Blake's beat-boxing. Survival of a major 'Lost' character in question The survival of a major "Lost" character was left in doubt this week in an episode that shot adrenaline into the plot of the ABC series but failed to give it a needed ratings boost. MPAA makes smoking a bigger factor in assigning film ratings Smoking will be a bigger factor in determining film ratings, the Motion Picture Association of America said Thursday, but critics said the move does not go far enough to discourage teens from taking up the habit. Years after singles were killed off, digital tracks now dominate 'Ocean's Thirteen' stars using film to call attention to Darfur tragedy Burns to add contributions of Hispanic veterans to World War II documentary Paris Hilton: 'I'm ready to face the consequences' 'American Idol' down to the final three After record $9.9 million eBay bid, 'Dukes of Hazzard' car buyer fails to pay Michael Moore faces U.S. Treasury investigation over Cuba trip Fight breaks out during Boston Pops opening night concert Billy Ray Cyrus booted from 'Dancing With the Stars' Schwarzenegger hasn't reviewed Paris Hilton fan petition urging pardon Industry struggles to keep advertisers as figures show fewer people watching TV Rage virus festers in lame sequel '28 Weeks Later' A peek into TV's annual frenzy of pilot season Big bidders expected to boost prices of Grateful Dead memorabilia Brit fashion stylist Isabella Blow dies George Michael pleads guilty to driving while unfit due to drugs Paris Hilton rehires publicist she dumped after jail sentence Judge suspends David Hasselhoff's child visitation rights ABC announces end date for 'Lost' Ty Pennington arrested for DUI Paris Hilton's jail time stint likely to add to her celebrity Timberlake and Diaz reunite for cameras at 'Shrek' premiere 'Spider-Man 3' shatters box-office records with $148 million Ceremony for Don Ho draws thousands in Hawaii At Jazz Fest the final acts mean tradition, sadness and promise Thousands turn out for memorial to Hawaiian crooner Don Ho 'The General' fetches $10 million bid `Spider-Man 3' snares audiences with record $59 million first day Paris Hilton sentenced to 45 days in jail Friend says Katie Holmes is not a prisoner in her marriage Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Passenger killed on Interstate 5 by loose truck wheels Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/entertainment/7440061.html	Paris Hilton: 'I'm ready to face the consequences' | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Entertainment Paris Hilton: 'I'm ready to face the consequences' Story Published: May 10, 2007 at 7:48 AM PDT Story Updated: May 10, 2007 at 7:48 AM PDT LOS ANGELES (AP) - Five days after she was sentenced to jail, Paris Hilton says she understands the seriousness of driving under the influence and that she is not "above the law." "I am ready to face the consequences of violating probation," Hilton said in a statement released Wednesday by her new attorney, DUI specialist Richard Hutton. "I do not expect to be treated better than anyone else who violated probation. However, my hope is that I will not be treated worse." The 26-year-old socialite was represented by attorney Howard Weitzman during her probation-violation hearing Friday. A receptionist at Hutton's Pasadena office declined to say when Hilton retained his services. Hutton did not return repeated calls for comment. Hilton said she released the statement because "I feel the need to correct what I believe are misperceptions about me." "I absolutely realize how serious driving under the influence is," she said. "I could not live with myself if anyone was injured or killed while I was driving while impaired. Clearly, no one should - no matter how slightly." The notorious party girl, who parlayed her pampered lifestyle into a reality TV show and a pop CD, was sentenced to 45 days in county jail for violating the terms of her probation in an alcohol-related reckless driving case. A judge ordered her to report to the women's jail in suburban Lynwood by June 5, adding that she will not be allowed any work release, furloughs, use of an alternative jail or electronic monitoring instead of time behind bars. Hilton's original legal team, headed by Weitzman, filed a notice with the court on Friday indicating their intent to appeal the decision. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Passenger killed on Interstate 5 by loose truck wheels Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/entertainment/7460582.html	Burns to add contributions of Hispanic veterans to World War II documentary | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Entertainment Burns to add contributions of Hispanic veterans to World War II documentary Story Published: May 11, 2007 at 7:40 AM PDT Story Updated: May 11, 2007 at 7:40 AM PDT WASHINGTON (AP) - Documentary maker Ken Burns said Thursday he will edit his upcoming PBS series about World War II to add stories about Hispanic soldiers after protests that they had been excluded. A day after meeting with Hispanic advocacy groups, Burns said he had collected interviews with Hispanic veterans that he considered powerful and would incorporate them, along with the veterans' personal documents. "The War," a 14-hour series, is scheduled to air in September. "The role of Hispanic-American veterans in WWII is one that lends itself to the universality of this film and merits being included in my film," Burns said in a statement. "It is adding another layer of storytelling that will only enrich what we already have." Burns was traveling to Paris on Thursday for the Cannes Film Festival, where he planned to show his film, said his publicist Joe DePlasco. Burns discussed his plan for revisions in New York on Wednesday with representatives from the American GI Forum, a Hispanic veterans group, and the Hispanic Association of Corporate Responsibility. Burns initially resisted changes to the completed documentary. Last month, after protests by Hispanic groups, Burns brought aboard a Hispanic documentarian, Hector Galan, and said he would fold in stories of Hispanic veterans during breaks in the series or after the end of an installment. Hispanic groups said that amounted to treating Hispanic veterans as an afterthought. Galan helped Burns find the veterans who will be added to the film, said Dayton Duncan, a partner with Burns at Florentine Films. "Our voices and narratives are going to be included. It's not going to be an add-on or addendum. It will have an impact on our veterans," said Antonio Gil Morales of the American GI Forum. Burns' film, made over six years, tells the story of World War II through people from four communities: Waterbury, Conn.; Mobile, Ala.; Sacramento, Calif.; and Luverne, Minn. Hispanic groups began protesting the documentary after Maggie Rivas-Rodgriguez, a University of Texas at Austin journalism professor who has recorded oral histories of Hispanic veterans, learned they were not in Burns' series. Hispanic members of Congress had recently taken their concerns about Burns' series to its corporate sponsors. Rivas-Rodriguez said she learned of Burns' decision through his announcement Thursday and was unaware of the New York meeting. "We have not signed off on anything," she said. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Passenger killed on Interstate 5 by loose truck wheels Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/entertainment/7439966.html	Michael Moore faces U.S. Treasury investigation over Cuba trip | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Entertainment Michael Moore faces U.S. Treasury investigation over Cuba trip Director Michael Moore poses for a portrait Oct. 9, 2002, in Los Angeles. Story Published: May 10, 2007 at 7:43 AM PDT Story Updated: May 10, 2007 at 4:24 PM PDT LOS ANGELES (AP) - Academy Award-winning filmmaker Michael Moore is under investigation by the U.S. Treasury Department for taking ailing Sept. 11 rescue workers to Cuba for a segment in his upcoming health-care documentary "Sicko," The Associated Press has learned. The investigation provides another contentious lead-in for a provocative film by Moore, a fierce critic of President Bush. In the past, Moore's adversaries have fanned publicity that helped the filmmaker create a new brand of opinionated blockbuster documentary. "Sicko" promises to take the health-care industry to task the way Moore confronted America's passion for guns in "Bowling for Columbine" and skewered Bush over his handling of Sept. 11 in "Fahrenheit 9/11." The Treasury Department's Office of Foreign Assets Control notified Moore in a letter dated May 2 that it was conducting a civil investigation for possible violations of the U.S. trade embargo restricting travel to Cuba. A copy of the letter was obtained Tuesday by the AP. "This office has no record that a specific license was issued authorizing you to engage in travel-related transactions involving Cuba," Dale Thompson, OFAC chief of general investigations and field operations, wrote in the letter to Moore. In February, Moore took about 10 ailing workers from the Ground Zero rescue effort in Manhattan for treatment in Cuba, said a person working with the filmmaker on the release of "Sicko." The person requested anonymity because Moore's attorneys had not yet determined how to respond. Moore, who scolded Bush over the Iraq war during the 2003 Oscar telecast, received the letter Monday, the person said. "Sicko" premieres May 19 at the Cannes Film Festival and debuts in U.S. theaters June 29. Moore declined to comment, said spokeswoman Lisa Cohen. After receiving the letter, Moore arranged to place a copy of the film in a "safe house" outside the country to protect it from government interference, said the person working on the release of the film. Treasury officials declined to answer questions about the letter. "We don't comment on enforcement actions," said department spokeswoman Molly Millerwise. The letter noted that Moore applied Oct. 12, 2006, for permission to go to Cuba "but no determination had been made by OFAC." Moore sought permission to travel there under a provision for full-time journalists, the letter said. According to the letter, Moore was given 20 business days to provide OFAC with such information as the date of travel and point of departure; the reason for the Cuba trip and his itinerary there; and the names and addresses of those who accompanied him, along with their reasons for going. Potential penalties for violating the embargo were not indicated. In 2003, the New York Yankees paid the government $75,000 to settle a dispute that it conducted business in Cuba in violation of the embargo. No specifics were released about that case. "Sicko" is Moore's followup to 2004's "Fahrenheit 9/11," a $100 million hit criticizing the Bush administration over Sept. 11. Moore's "Bowling for Columbine" won the 2002 Oscar for best documentary. A dissection of the U.S. health-care system, "Sicko" was inspired by a segment on Moore's TV show "The Awful Truth," in which he staged a mock funeral outside a health-maintenance organization that had declined a pancreas transplant for a diabetic man. The HMO later relented. At last September's Toronto International Film Festival, Moore previewed footage shot for "Sicko," presenting stories of personal health-care nightmares. One scene showed a woman who was denied payment for an ambulance ride after a head-on collision because it was not preapproved. Moore's opponents have accused him of distorting the facts, and his Cuba trip provoked criticism from conservatives including former Republican Sen. Fred Thompson, who assailed the filmmaker in a blog at National Review Online. "I have no expectation that Moore is going to tell the truth about Cuba or health care," wrote Thompson, the subject of speculation about a possible presidential run. "I defend his right to do what he does, but Moore's talent for clever falsehoods has been too well documented." The timing of the investigation is reminiscent of the firestorm that preceded the Cannes debut of "Fahrenheit 9/11," which won the festival's top prize in 2004. The Walt Disney Co. refused to let subsidiary Miramax release the film because of its political content, prompting Miramax bosses Harvey and Bob Weinstein to release "Fahrenheit 9/11" on their own. The Weinsteins later left Miramax to form the Weinstein Co., which is releasing "Sicko." They declined to comment on the Treasury investigation, said company spokeswoman Sarah Levinson Rothman. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Passenger killed on Interstate 5 by loose truck wheels Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/entertainment/7460672.html	MPAA makes smoking a bigger factor in assigning film ratings | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Entertainment MPAA makes smoking a bigger factor in assigning film ratings Story Published: May 11, 2007 at 7:47 AM PDT Story Updated: May 11, 2007 at 7:47 AM PDT LOS ANGELES (AP) - Smoking will be a bigger factor in determining film ratings, the Motion Picture Association of America said Thursday, but critics said the move does not go far enough to discourage teens from taking up the habit. MPAA Chairman Dan Glickman said his group's ratings board, which previously had considered underage smoking in assigning film ratings, now will take into account smoking by adults, as well. That adds smoking to a list of such factors as sex, violence and language in determining the MPAA's G, PG, PG-13, R and NC-17 ratings. Film raters will consider the pervasiveness of tobacco use, whether it glamorizes smoking and the context in which smoking appears, as in movies set in the past when smoking was more common. Some critics of Hollywood's depictions of tobacco in films have urged that movies that show smoking be assigned an R rating, which would restrict those younger than 17 from seeing them. "I'm glad it's finally an issue they're taking up, but what they're proposing does not go far enough and is not going to make a difference," said Kori Titus, spokeswoman for Breathe California, which opposes film images of tobacco use that might encourage young people to start smoking. Glickman said a mandatory R rating for smoking would not "further the specific goal of providing information to parents on this issue." Smoking in movies with a G, PG or PG-13 rating has been on the decline, and the "percentage of films that included even a fleeting glimpse of smoking" declined from 60 percent to 52 percent between July 2004 and July 2006," Glickman said. Of those films, three-fourths received an R rating for other reasons, he said. "That means there's not a great amount of films in the unrestricted category as it stands," said Joan Graves, who heads the ratings board. "We're not saying we're ignoring the issue. We're trying the best way possible according to what we've learned from parents to give them information about what's in a film." Titus said smoking in films had declined in recent years but remains more prevalent than MPAA figures indicate. Descriptions on sex, violence and language that accompany movie ratings now will include such phrases as "glamorized smoking" or "pervasive smoking," Glickman said. If rated today, a film such as 2005's "Good Night, and Good Luck," about chain-smoking newsman Edward R. Murrow, would have carried a "pervasive smoking" tag but probably would have retained its PG rating because of its historical context in the 1950s, Graves said. Titus said film raters should be as tough on smoking as they are on bad language to minimize the effects of on-screen smoking on children, including her own 5-year-old daughter. "I don't want her using that language, but last time I checked, she's probably not going to die from that," Titus said. "If she starts smoking from these images she sees in movies, chances are she's probably going to die early from that." While Titus' group wants tougher ratings restrictions, the MPAA released statements of support for its plan from John Seffrin, chief executive officer of the American Cancer Society, U.S. Sen. Joe Biden and filmmaker Rob Reiner, among others. "By placing smoking on a par with considerations of violence and sex, the rating board has acknowledged the public-health dangers to children associated with glamorized images of a toxic and lethal addiction to tobacco," Barry Bloom, dean of the Harvard School of Public Health, said in a statement. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Passenger killed on Interstate 5 by loose truck wheels Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/entertainment/7460607.html	'Ocean's Thirteen' stars using film to call attention to Darfur tragedy | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Entertainment 'Ocean's Thirteen' stars using film to call attention to Darfur tragedy Story Published: May 11, 2007 at 7:42 AM PDT Story Updated: May 11, 2007 at 7:42 AM PDT LOS ANGELES (AP) - George Clooney, Brad Pitt and other stars of "Ocean's Thirteen" have agreed to use the lighthearted caper film to call attention to a more serious cause - the genocide in Sudan's western Darfur region. Clooney, Pitt, Matt Damon and Don Cheadle along with producer Jerry Weintraub are using events surrounding the movie's premiere next month to promote their Web site, www.notonourwatchproject.org., which is partnering with the International Rescue Committee to raise funds to aid the hundreds of thousands of people uprooted by the Darfur conflict. "All the guys have been to the Sudan this year. They saw this huge genocide and nobody doing anything about it," Weintraub said in an interview Thursday. "Clooney got attention earlier, but it faded." "What we are trying to do here is bring our celebrity to raise money and bring a spotlight on Sudan again. We decided to dedicate ourselves to this. The thing I am most proud of by far is that these events will benefit a cause that is very important to me and my colleagues." There will be benefit screenings of "Ocean's Thirteen," a Warner Bros. Pictures release, to raise funds for Not On Our Watch and the IRC, including a special June 6 screening at the CineVegas Film Festival in Las Vegas, where Weintraub will receive a special Vanguard Producer Award celebrating his half-century in show business. Other events surrounding the film's June 8 nationwide release include the May 24 fundraising debut in Cannes, France, and the June 5 North American premiere at Grauman's Chinese Theatre, where Clooney and the other stars will leave their footprints in the wet cement outside the Hollywood tourist spot. In "Ocean's Thirteen," directed by Steven Soderbergh, Clooney reprises his role as Danny Ocean, who reassembles his crew of master criminals to take revenge on a hated Las Vegas businessman and casino owner played by Al Pacino. The 69-year-old Weintraub plans to visit the Darfur region later this year. "It's not a pleasant place to go," he said. "They don't need another tourist like me going there. I can do a lot more good here raising money. But I will go. We are all very good friends so when one does something we all get onboard." At least 200,000 people have died and 2.5 million have been chased from their homes since 2003 when ethnic African rebels in Darfur rose up against the Arab-dominated central government. The Sudanese government is accused of retaliating by arming local nomadic tribes and unleashing militias known as the janjaweed - a charge the government denies. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Passenger killed on Interstate 5 by loose truck wheels Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/entertainment/7440001.html	After record $9.9 million eBay bid, 'Dukes of Hazzard' car buyer fails to pay | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Entertainment After record $9.9 million eBay bid, 'Dukes of Hazzard' car buyer fails to pay Actor John Schneider of the Dukes of Hazzard looks at a replica of the "General Lee", in this file photo from June 11, 2005. Story Published: May 10, 2007 at 7:45 AM PDT Story Updated: May 10, 2007 at 4:20 PM PDT SAN FRANCISCO (AP) - A nearly $10 million eBay bid for a car made famous by "The Dukes of Hazzard" seems to have vanished faster than the Duke boys escaping from the sheriff. The General Lee's owner - actor John Schneider, who played the blond heartthrob Bo Duke in the 1980s television series - is upset that the $9,900,500 winning bid appears to be a hoax. The bid set an eBay record last week. Schneider plans to list his 1969 Dodge Charger with a bricks-and-mortar auction firm that strictly screens buyers, and may file a lawsuit against the bidder, said Allen Stockman, who runs the star's Agoura Hills estate and has sold scripts, memorabilia and other items on eBay for three years. "If this guy was just doing it as a prank or to ruin someone else's chances, he deserves to be hit in the pocketbook," said Stockman, who gave the winning bidder a negative rating in eBay's feedback forum. Schneider, 47, was at a promotion in Las Vegas and could not be reached for comment. The winning bidder - identified on his eBay home page as William Fisher, or "fishbashr1" - did not return e-mails and did not answer the phone listed for his house in Laguna Hills. Schneider's plight is the most recent fraudulent bidding episode at eBay. In December, a Montreal man listed a 40-year-old acetate of "The Velvet Underground & Nico" by Andy Warhol. Bidding began at 99 cents, but after 10 days, 253 bids and numerous articles about the item in the media, the winning bid was $155,401. Within hours, the bid was determined to be a hoax and the item was relisted. In March, bids on a gas grill said to be owned by Red Sox slugger Manny Ramirez reached $99,999,999, the highest bid the Web site was technically capable of listing. EBay pulled the listing after the company couldn't verify the grill was owned by Ramirez. EBay spokeswoman Catherine England said the company doesn't keep track of how many winning bidders renege. "There are all sorts of reasons a transaction may fall through, and we have a claims process for both buyer and seller," England said. When bidding escalated on the General Lee, a customer service agent called Stockman and recommended that he only accept pre-qualified bidders who could prove that they had secured financing. But Stockman said he didn't have the time for credit or background checks. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Passenger killed on Interstate 5 by loose truck wheels Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/entertainment/7460787.html	Survival of a major 'Lost' character in question | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Entertainment Survival of a major 'Lost' character in question Story Published: May 11, 2007 at 7:51 AM PDT Story Updated: May 11, 2007 at 7:51 AM PDT LOS ANGELES (AP) - The survival of a major "Lost" character was left in doubt this week in an episode that shot adrenaline into the plot of the ABC series but failed to give it a needed ratings boost. The Wednesday episode in which Locke (Terry O'Quinn) was shot, perhaps fatally, by Ben (Michael Emerson), the leader of "the Others," drew 12.1 million viewers. That's about the same sized audience the show has been attracting in recent weeks. That compares to the 22 million-plus "Lost" drew at its peak last season, its second. Still, the drama about plane-crash survivors on a mysterious island has been winning its 10 p.m. EDT time slot among the young adult viewers prized by advertisers. "Lost" also is building its audience within the hour, demonstrating that viewers who tune in like what they see. In this week's pivotal episode, the audience got a history lesson about Ben's troubled childhood and a clash between two island factions. Given Locke's importance to the show, the odds seem to be in his favor. But the producers have never been queasy about killing off characters who survived the crash but not the show's complex plot twists. ABC's recent announcement that the show will conclude in the 2009-10 season also might have fans wondering if Locke's shooting is a shocking early start to the show's ultimate resolution. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Passenger killed on Interstate 5 by loose truck wheels Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/entertainment/7429451.html	'American Idol' down to the final three | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Entertainment 'American Idol' down to the final three Story Published: May 9, 2007 at 7:47 PM PDT Story Updated: May 9, 2007 at 7:47 PM PDT NEW YORK (AP) - A kiss from Simon Cowell turned out to be a kiss goodbye. A week after so impressing the cantankerous Cowell that he kissed her, LaKisha Jones was eliminated Wednesday on ''American Idol.'' The Fox talent show is down to its final three contestants. A nervous Jones seemed to have an ominous feeling Wednesday. Host Ryan Seacrest noticed she was talking to herself during one of the commercial breaks, and she admitted to overanalyzing things. Performances of Barry Gibb songs the night before led to a particularly brutal week of Cowell criticism. ''No kiss tonight, baby,'' Cowell had said to Jones. He was even tougher on Blake Lewis, calling one of his takes ''absolutely terrible.'' But asked to choose whether Lewis or Jones would be going home Wednesday, Cowell correctly predicted the results from the 45 million votes. Jones, 27, grew up in Flint, Mich., and is the mother of a toddler. She began singing at age 5, has a passion for gospel but was formally trained in classical music. Tears streamed down her face as she said goodbye - but she stayed long enough to get a career kick-start from ''American Idol.'' Lewis, 25 and the only man left in the competition, overcame Cowell's attack. The fashion police may not forgive his choice of a t-shirt with a painted-on bowtie Wednesday. Lewis is from Bothell, Wash. He'll compete against 17-year-old Jordin Sparks of Glendale, Ariz., the youngest performer left, and Melinda Doolittle, 29, of Brentwood, Tenn. Doolittle, already a professional backup singer, was the first one given entrance into the group of three. Cowell had already predicted the night before that her performance had been enough to keep her in. Gibb, the former Bee Gee, sang his own ''To Love Somebody'' on Wednesday's show, which was padded with marketing opportunities. There was even a lengthy tie-in to an action movie that isn't debuting until next month, complete with a visit from Jessica Alba. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Passenger killed on Interstate 5 by loose truck wheels Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/entertainment/7439926.html	Fight breaks out during Boston Pops opening night concert | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Entertainment Fight breaks out during Boston Pops opening night concert Story Published: May 10, 2007 at 7:41 AM PDT Story Updated: May 10, 2007 at 8:14 AM PDT BOSTON (AP) - Something else popped at the Boston Pops opening night concert - a fight broke out in the audience at Symphony Hall. Television video of the fight Wednesday night showed two men struggling in the balcony - one with his shirt pulled off - as several people stood around them and the orchestra and singer-songwriter Ben Folds performed a medley from the movie "Gigi". Conductor Keith Lockhart briefly halted the performance while the men were escorted out. Witnesses said they heard a scream from the balcony, and the sound of chairs falling, then a second scream as the fight escalated. "The first time there was a scream, Keith looked up that way but he kept going," audience member June MacIndoe told Boston's WHDH-TV. "Then about a minute and a half later ... there was a big scream and you could hear chairs falling over and you could see them up there, fists going." At that point, Lockhart stopped the performance for a couple of minutes, she said. "He just stood there, you know, quiet." Boston police spokesman David Estrada said police officers on security detail at the hall escorted the men off the property, and no charges were filed. No injuries were reported, he said. A Boston Symphony spokeswoman did not return a call for comment. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Passenger killed on Interstate 5 by loose truck wheels Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/entertainment/7460657.html	Years after singles were killed off, digital tracks now dominate | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Entertainment Years after singles were killed off, digital tracks now dominate Story Published: May 11, 2007 at 7:44 AM PDT Story Updated: May 11, 2007 at 7:44 AM PDT NEW YORK (AP) - It sounds like a horror movie: a beloved friend is callously exterminated, then reincarnated in a different form to wreak havoc on the killer. That's the nightmare currently facing the music industry. Almost a decade after virtually eliminating 45s and cassette singles, thereby forcing fans to spend more money on whole albums, the digital single is largely responsible for the industry's woes. Consumers no longer need to buy an album if they want that cool jam they heard on the radio - and in growing numbers, they're choosing 99-cent downloads over $15 CDs. Some worry this trend is worsening the quality of albums as a cohesive musical work, and that label executives are more and more interested in quick hits than lasting music or artists. While the vast majority of music consumers still buy CD albums, they are buying less of them, while digital tracks are exploding: According to Nielsen SoundScan, sales of physical CDs this year have declined 20 percent from the same point in 2006, from 112 million to 89 million. Digital tracks are up to 288 million from 242 million at the same period last year. And that's not counting the millions of singles that are illegally downloaded. "Now, we're in a very difference place in terms of the single business," Jim Donio, president of National Association of Recording Merchandisers, said in an interview. "The single business is alive and well, and it's in the form of track downloads." The same cannot be said, however, for albums. Even counting albums that are downloaded along with physical CDs sold, album sales are down 10 percent from the same period last year, according to Nielsen SoundScan, continuing a decline that has been growing for several years. The industry's hard times are evident in recent label consolidations, widespread layoffs, reduction in budgets and an overall air of belt-tightening. In 1996, music companies shipped more than 1.1 billion units - all physical product - for a value of $12.5 billion, according to the Recording Industry Association of America. Ten years later, despite a decline in physical product sold, they industry has "shipped" approximately 1.6 billion units - but its value is down by a billion dollars, to $11.5 billion. "There's probably a fair amount of purchases that would have been albums but are now individual track sales instead," said Geoff Mayfield, director of charts at Billboard magazine. And at 99 cents or so, singles bring in much less profit than albums (which is why iTunes has been pressured by record companies to raise their prices). Other signs show of the singles-driven market: One of the most consistent album chart-toppers is the blockbuster "Now That's What I Call Music!" series, which features a compilation of the hottest tracks of the season and routinely debuts at No. 1. And of course there is the enormous popularity of music download services like iTunes. Recently, iTunes introduce its "Complete the Album" feature, an enticement which gives credit for songs purchased from an album toward purchasing the rest of it. The question remains whether consumers are as interested in completing the albums as they used to. Ciara hopes so. The 21-year-old's latest platinum album, "Ciara: The Evolution," on La Face/Jive Records (a unit of Sony BMG Music Entertainment, a joint venture between Sony Corp. and Bertelsmann AG) wasn't designed to provide just hits, but as an entire experience about her development into a woman, complete with interludes between the tracks. "For me growing up, there was nothing like listening to an album that you could literally sit down and listen to from the beginning to the end," she said. "It can't just be about singles. That's the purpose of an album, it's almost like a story within itself." Avril Lavigne, 22, who's latest album "The Best Damn Thing" on RCA (also a part of Sony BMG) debuted at No. 1, is also still in love with the album: "I'm so all about going to the store and buy a CD." "(But) times are changing," she added. Someday "people aren't going to do records, they're just going to do singles, probably." That would have been hard to believe just a few years ago, given that the single - which gave birth to the recording industry and dominated it for decades - was virtually phased out at a time of huge industry profits. While there are still physical singles in stores, the numbers are so minute that Nielsen SoundScan doesn't even track them. "We tried to stop selling a commercial single because people were making great, great records and albums were selling like hotcakes," says longtime music industry executive Steve Rifkind, founder Street Records Corporation, home to platinum singer/producer Akon, and Loud.com. But removing the option of purchasing a single may not have helped the album much, either - and may have actually boosted the original illegal downloading services like Napster, says Mayfield. "The notion that someone would jump to an album-length purchase because they couldn't find the one song they wanted available was a naive one," he said. Rifkind acknowledges that "we are definitely in a singles market," - but blames the problem on a lack of creativity and "lazy" executives. "People are going after one hit. They are not really caring what the album sounds like ... They are not into artist development anymore. If us as an industry went and started developing talent again, and not worrying about one hit, it would be more than a singles-driven business again." In a recent interview with The Associated Press, Jay-Z, the superstar rapper and president of Def Jam Records, also blamed the quality of the music for the current climate. "We're making disposable music. You can't make disposable music again and again and again and again and not expect anything to happen. We have these huge radio records ... and then won't sell any records," he said. "If you're making just songs, they'll listen to it in the clubs, that's great, they'll listen to it in their car, that's beautiful. Will they buy it? No." Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Passenger killed on Interstate 5 by loose truck wheels Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/entertainment	KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Entertainment Fans turn out to greet local 'Idol' finalist Blake Lewis returned to Seattle on Friday, playing a concert before more than a thousand fans. He was joined onstage by Seattle's own Sir Mix-A-Lot, who sang his hit 'Baby Got Back' over what many in the crowd came to see: Blake's beat-boxing. Survival of a major 'Lost' character in question The survival of a major "Lost" character was left in doubt this week in an episode that shot adrenaline into the plot of the ABC series but failed to give it a needed ratings boost. MPAA makes smoking a bigger factor in assigning film ratings Smoking will be a bigger factor in determining film ratings, the Motion Picture Association of America said Thursday, but critics said the move does not go far enough to discourage teens from taking up the habit. Years after singles were killed off, digital tracks now dominate 'Ocean's Thirteen' stars using film to call attention to Darfur tragedy Burns to add contributions of Hispanic veterans to World War II documentary Paris Hilton: 'I'm ready to face the consequences' 'American Idol' down to the final three After record $9.9 million eBay bid, 'Dukes of Hazzard' car buyer fails to pay Michael Moore faces U.S. Treasury investigation over Cuba trip Fight breaks out during Boston Pops opening night concert Billy Ray Cyrus booted from 'Dancing With the Stars' Schwarzenegger hasn't reviewed Paris Hilton fan petition urging pardon Industry struggles to keep advertisers as figures show fewer people watching TV Rage virus festers in lame sequel '28 Weeks Later' A peek into TV's annual frenzy of pilot season Big bidders expected to boost prices of Grateful Dead memorabilia Brit fashion stylist Isabella Blow dies George Michael pleads guilty to driving while unfit due to drugs Paris Hilton rehires publicist she dumped after jail sentence Judge suspends David Hasselhoff's child visitation rights ABC announces end date for 'Lost' Ty Pennington arrested for DUI Paris Hilton's jail time stint likely to add to her celebrity Timberlake and Diaz reunite for cameras at 'Shrek' premiere 'Spider-Man 3' shatters box-office records with $148 million Ceremony for Don Ho draws thousands in Hawaii At Jazz Fest the final acts mean tradition, sadness and promise Thousands turn out for memorial to Hawaiian crooner Don Ho 'The General' fetches $10 million bid `Spider-Man 3' snares audiences with record $59 million first day Paris Hilton sentenced to 45 days in jail Friend says Katie Holmes is not a prisoner in her marriage Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Passenger killed on Interstate 5 by loose truck wheels Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/entertainment/7440061.html	Paris Hilton: 'I'm ready to face the consequences' | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Entertainment Paris Hilton: 'I'm ready to face the consequences' Story Published: May 10, 2007 at 7:48 AM PDT Story Updated: May 10, 2007 at 7:48 AM PDT LOS ANGELES (AP) - Five days after she was sentenced to jail, Paris Hilton says she understands the seriousness of driving under the influence and that she is not "above the law." "I am ready to face the consequences of violating probation," Hilton said in a statement released Wednesday by her new attorney, DUI specialist Richard Hutton. "I do not expect to be treated better than anyone else who violated probation. However, my hope is that I will not be treated worse." The 26-year-old socialite was represented by attorney Howard Weitzman during her probation-violation hearing Friday. A receptionist at Hutton's Pasadena office declined to say when Hilton retained his services. Hutton did not return repeated calls for comment. Hilton said she released the statement because "I feel the need to correct what I believe are misperceptions about me." "I absolutely realize how serious driving under the influence is," she said. "I could not live with myself if anyone was injured or killed while I was driving while impaired. Clearly, no one should - no matter how slightly." The notorious party girl, who parlayed her pampered lifestyle into a reality TV show and a pop CD, was sentenced to 45 days in county jail for violating the terms of her probation in an alcohol-related reckless driving case. A judge ordered her to report to the women's jail in suburban Lynwood by June 5, adding that she will not be allowed any work release, furloughs, use of an alternative jail or electronic monitoring instead of time behind bars. Hilton's original legal team, headed by Weitzman, filed a notice with the court on Friday indicating their intent to appeal the decision. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Passenger killed on Interstate 5 by loose truck wheels Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/entertainment/7460582.html	Burns to add contributions of Hispanic veterans to World War II documentary | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Entertainment Burns to add contributions of Hispanic veterans to World War II documentary Story Published: May 11, 2007 at 7:40 AM PDT Story Updated: May 11, 2007 at 7:40 AM PDT WASHINGTON (AP) - Documentary maker Ken Burns said Thursday he will edit his upcoming PBS series about World War II to add stories about Hispanic soldiers after protests that they had been excluded. A day after meeting with Hispanic advocacy groups, Burns said he had collected interviews with Hispanic veterans that he considered powerful and would incorporate them, along with the veterans' personal documents. "The War," a 14-hour series, is scheduled to air in September. "The role of Hispanic-American veterans in WWII is one that lends itself to the universality of this film and merits being included in my film," Burns said in a statement. "It is adding another layer of storytelling that will only enrich what we already have." Burns was traveling to Paris on Thursday for the Cannes Film Festival, where he planned to show his film, said his publicist Joe DePlasco. Burns discussed his plan for revisions in New York on Wednesday with representatives from the American GI Forum, a Hispanic veterans group, and the Hispanic Association of Corporate Responsibility. Burns initially resisted changes to the completed documentary. Last month, after protests by Hispanic groups, Burns brought aboard a Hispanic documentarian, Hector Galan, and said he would fold in stories of Hispanic veterans during breaks in the series or after the end of an installment. Hispanic groups said that amounted to treating Hispanic veterans as an afterthought. Galan helped Burns find the veterans who will be added to the film, said Dayton Duncan, a partner with Burns at Florentine Films. "Our voices and narratives are going to be included. It's not going to be an add-on or addendum. It will have an impact on our veterans," said Antonio Gil Morales of the American GI Forum. Burns' film, made over six years, tells the story of World War II through people from four communities: Waterbury, Conn.; Mobile, Ala.; Sacramento, Calif.; and Luverne, Minn. Hispanic groups began protesting the documentary after Maggie Rivas-Rodgriguez, a University of Texas at Austin journalism professor who has recorded oral histories of Hispanic veterans, learned they were not in Burns' series. Hispanic members of Congress had recently taken their concerns about Burns' series to its corporate sponsors. Rivas-Rodriguez said she learned of Burns' decision through his announcement Thursday and was unaware of the New York meeting. "We have not signed off on anything," she said. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Passenger killed on Interstate 5 by loose truck wheels Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/entertainment/7439966.html	Michael Moore faces U.S. Treasury investigation over Cuba trip | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Entertainment Michael Moore faces U.S. Treasury investigation over Cuba trip Director Michael Moore poses for a portrait Oct. 9, 2002, in Los Angeles. Story Published: May 10, 2007 at 7:43 AM PDT Story Updated: May 10, 2007 at 4:24 PM PDT LOS ANGELES (AP) - Academy Award-winning filmmaker Michael Moore is under investigation by the U.S. Treasury Department for taking ailing Sept. 11 rescue workers to Cuba for a segment in his upcoming health-care documentary "Sicko," The Associated Press has learned. The investigation provides another contentious lead-in for a provocative film by Moore, a fierce critic of President Bush. In the past, Moore's adversaries have fanned publicity that helped the filmmaker create a new brand of opinionated blockbuster documentary. "Sicko" promises to take the health-care industry to task the way Moore confronted America's passion for guns in "Bowling for Columbine" and skewered Bush over his handling of Sept. 11 in "Fahrenheit 9/11." The Treasury Department's Office of Foreign Assets Control notified Moore in a letter dated May 2 that it was conducting a civil investigation for possible violations of the U.S. trade embargo restricting travel to Cuba. A copy of the letter was obtained Tuesday by the AP. "This office has no record that a specific license was issued authorizing you to engage in travel-related transactions involving Cuba," Dale Thompson, OFAC chief of general investigations and field operations, wrote in the letter to Moore. In February, Moore took about 10 ailing workers from the Ground Zero rescue effort in Manhattan for treatment in Cuba, said a person working with the filmmaker on the release of "Sicko." The person requested anonymity because Moore's attorneys had not yet determined how to respond. Moore, who scolded Bush over the Iraq war during the 2003 Oscar telecast, received the letter Monday, the person said. "Sicko" premieres May 19 at the Cannes Film Festival and debuts in U.S. theaters June 29. Moore declined to comment, said spokeswoman Lisa Cohen. After receiving the letter, Moore arranged to place a copy of the film in a "safe house" outside the country to protect it from government interference, said the person working on the release of the film. Treasury officials declined to answer questions about the letter. "We don't comment on enforcement actions," said department spokeswoman Molly Millerwise. The letter noted that Moore applied Oct. 12, 2006, for permission to go to Cuba "but no determination had been made by OFAC." Moore sought permission to travel there under a provision for full-time journalists, the letter said. According to the letter, Moore was given 20 business days to provide OFAC with such information as the date of travel and point of departure; the reason for the Cuba trip and his itinerary there; and the names and addresses of those who accompanied him, along with their reasons for going. Potential penalties for violating the embargo were not indicated. In 2003, the New York Yankees paid the government $75,000 to settle a dispute that it conducted business in Cuba in violation of the embargo. No specifics were released about that case. "Sicko" is Moore's followup to 2004's "Fahrenheit 9/11," a $100 million hit criticizing the Bush administration over Sept. 11. Moore's "Bowling for Columbine" won the 2002 Oscar for best documentary. A dissection of the U.S. health-care system, "Sicko" was inspired by a segment on Moore's TV show "The Awful Truth," in which he staged a mock funeral outside a health-maintenance organization that had declined a pancreas transplant for a diabetic man. The HMO later relented. At last September's Toronto International Film Festival, Moore previewed footage shot for "Sicko," presenting stories of personal health-care nightmares. One scene showed a woman who was denied payment for an ambulance ride after a head-on collision because it was not preapproved. Moore's opponents have accused him of distorting the facts, and his Cuba trip provoked criticism from conservatives including former Republican Sen. Fred Thompson, who assailed the filmmaker in a blog at National Review Online. "I have no expectation that Moore is going to tell the truth about Cuba or health care," wrote Thompson, the subject of speculation about a possible presidential run. "I defend his right to do what he does, but Moore's talent for clever falsehoods has been too well documented." The timing of the investigation is reminiscent of the firestorm that preceded the Cannes debut of "Fahrenheit 9/11," which won the festival's top prize in 2004. The Walt Disney Co. refused to let subsidiary Miramax release the film because of its political content, prompting Miramax bosses Harvey and Bob Weinstein to release "Fahrenheit 9/11" on their own. The Weinsteins later left Miramax to form the Weinstein Co., which is releasing "Sicko." They declined to comment on the Treasury investigation, said company spokeswoman Sarah Levinson Rothman. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Passenger killed on Interstate 5 by loose truck wheels Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/entertainment/7460672.html	MPAA makes smoking a bigger factor in assigning film ratings | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Entertainment MPAA makes smoking a bigger factor in assigning film ratings Story Published: May 11, 2007 at 7:47 AM PDT Story Updated: May 11, 2007 at 7:47 AM PDT LOS ANGELES (AP) - Smoking will be a bigger factor in determining film ratings, the Motion Picture Association of America said Thursday, but critics said the move does not go far enough to discourage teens from taking up the habit. MPAA Chairman Dan Glickman said his group's ratings board, which previously had considered underage smoking in assigning film ratings, now will take into account smoking by adults, as well. That adds smoking to a list of such factors as sex, violence and language in determining the MPAA's G, PG, PG-13, R and NC-17 ratings. Film raters will consider the pervasiveness of tobacco use, whether it glamorizes smoking and the context in which smoking appears, as in movies set in the past when smoking was more common. Some critics of Hollywood's depictions of tobacco in films have urged that movies that show smoking be assigned an R rating, which would restrict those younger than 17 from seeing them. "I'm glad it's finally an issue they're taking up, but what they're proposing does not go far enough and is not going to make a difference," said Kori Titus, spokeswoman for Breathe California, which opposes film images of tobacco use that might encourage young people to start smoking. Glickman said a mandatory R rating for smoking would not "further the specific goal of providing information to parents on this issue." Smoking in movies with a G, PG or PG-13 rating has been on the decline, and the "percentage of films that included even a fleeting glimpse of smoking" declined from 60 percent to 52 percent between July 2004 and July 2006," Glickman said. Of those films, three-fourths received an R rating for other reasons, he said. "That means there's not a great amount of films in the unrestricted category as it stands," said Joan Graves, who heads the ratings board. "We're not saying we're ignoring the issue. We're trying the best way possible according to what we've learned from parents to give them information about what's in a film." Titus said smoking in films had declined in recent years but remains more prevalent than MPAA figures indicate. Descriptions on sex, violence and language that accompany movie ratings now will include such phrases as "glamorized smoking" or "pervasive smoking," Glickman said. If rated today, a film such as 2005's "Good Night, and Good Luck," about chain-smoking newsman Edward R. Murrow, would have carried a "pervasive smoking" tag but probably would have retained its PG rating because of its historical context in the 1950s, Graves said. Titus said film raters should be as tough on smoking as they are on bad language to minimize the effects of on-screen smoking on children, including her own 5-year-old daughter. "I don't want her using that language, but last time I checked, she's probably not going to die from that," Titus said. "If she starts smoking from these images she sees in movies, chances are she's probably going to die early from that." While Titus' group wants tougher ratings restrictions, the MPAA released statements of support for its plan from John Seffrin, chief executive officer of the American Cancer Society, U.S. Sen. Joe Biden and filmmaker Rob Reiner, among others. "By placing smoking on a par with considerations of violence and sex, the rating board has acknowledged the public-health dangers to children associated with glamorized images of a toxic and lethal addiction to tobacco," Barry Bloom, dean of the Harvard School of Public Health, said in a statement. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Passenger killed on Interstate 5 by loose truck wheels Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/entertainment/7460607.html	'Ocean's Thirteen' stars using film to call attention to Darfur tragedy | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Entertainment 'Ocean's Thirteen' stars using film to call attention to Darfur tragedy Story Published: May 11, 2007 at 7:42 AM PDT Story Updated: May 11, 2007 at 7:42 AM PDT LOS ANGELES (AP) - George Clooney, Brad Pitt and other stars of "Ocean's Thirteen" have agreed to use the lighthearted caper film to call attention to a more serious cause - the genocide in Sudan's western Darfur region. Clooney, Pitt, Matt Damon and Don Cheadle along with producer Jerry Weintraub are using events surrounding the movie's premiere next month to promote their Web site, www.notonourwatchproject.org., which is partnering with the International Rescue Committee to raise funds to aid the hundreds of thousands of people uprooted by the Darfur conflict. "All the guys have been to the Sudan this year. They saw this huge genocide and nobody doing anything about it," Weintraub said in an interview Thursday. "Clooney got attention earlier, but it faded." "What we are trying to do here is bring our celebrity to raise money and bring a spotlight on Sudan again. We decided to dedicate ourselves to this. The thing I am most proud of by far is that these events will benefit a cause that is very important to me and my colleagues." There will be benefit screenings of "Ocean's Thirteen," a Warner Bros. Pictures release, to raise funds for Not On Our Watch and the IRC, including a special June 6 screening at the CineVegas Film Festival in Las Vegas, where Weintraub will receive a special Vanguard Producer Award celebrating his half-century in show business. Other events surrounding the film's June 8 nationwide release include the May 24 fundraising debut in Cannes, France, and the June 5 North American premiere at Grauman's Chinese Theatre, where Clooney and the other stars will leave their footprints in the wet cement outside the Hollywood tourist spot. In "Ocean's Thirteen," directed by Steven Soderbergh, Clooney reprises his role as Danny Ocean, who reassembles his crew of master criminals to take revenge on a hated Las Vegas businessman and casino owner played by Al Pacino. The 69-year-old Weintraub plans to visit the Darfur region later this year. "It's not a pleasant place to go," he said. "They don't need another tourist like me going there. I can do a lot more good here raising money. But I will go. We are all very good friends so when one does something we all get onboard." At least 200,000 people have died and 2.5 million have been chased from their homes since 2003 when ethnic African rebels in Darfur rose up against the Arab-dominated central government. The Sudanese government is accused of retaliating by arming local nomadic tribes and unleashing militias known as the janjaweed - a charge the government denies. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Passenger killed on Interstate 5 by loose truck wheels Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/entertainment/7468752.html	Fans turn out to greet local 'Idol' finalist | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Entertainment Fans turn out to greet local 'Idol' finalist American Idol finalist Blake Lewis performs in concert on Friday, May 11, 2007 at Westlake Center in Seattle. Story Published: May 11, 2007 at 3:29 PM PDT Story Updated: May 11, 2007 at 3:47 PM PDT SEATTLE (AP) - Baby got back, and Seattle got Blake. "American Idol" finalist Blake Lewis returned to Seattle on Friday, playing a free concert before more than a thousand fans at Westlake Park, where he was joined onstage by Seattle's own Sir Mix-A-Lot. Mix-A-Lot sang his hit "Baby Got Back" over what many in the crowd came to see: Blake's beat-boxing. "Every time you watch 'American Idol,' you see people that can sing, and that's it," Mix-A-Lot said to wild applause. "This cat got real talent. ... He's the new king of Sea-town, baby." Lewis, 25, is one of three remaining contestants on Fox's wildly popular singing contest, and his homecoming plans included a parade in his suburban hometown of Bothell and the national anthem at the Mariners-Yankees game Friday night. He looked out on the crowd in the warm midday sunshine and said: "I'm speechless. Thank you guys for all the support." But Lewis directed most of his onstage banter at urging his fans to support local music, giving repeated shout-outs to rising Seattle hip-hop stars Blue Scholars and Common Market. "A lot's changed since I saw you last," Common Market's RA Scion said to him before unleashing a torrent of lyrics over Lewis' beat-boxing. Many in the crowd, populated largely by truant teenage girls, screamed and waved signs that read "Blaker Girls" or "We (heart) Blake." Blaire Ginnever, a 14-year-old eighth-grader, said she was skipping her lunch period and Spanish class at Villa Academy in Seattle. "Blake es muy bueno," she said. Her favorite part? "The beat-boxing - it's just, like, unique and nobody else can do it on the show." Ginnever's mom, Marilyn, was also in the crowd, and said she didn't mind that her daughter was missing school. "It's the end of the year, and this is big for Seattle," she said. "We follow the show. It's kind of a family event, and rooting for a hometown boy makes it special." City Councilwoman Jean Godden, who is old enough to remember a significant chunk of Seattle's musical history, read a proclamation declaring Friday "Blake Lewis Day" and placing the "reknowned beat-box musician" in a local tradition that includes Jimi Hendrix, Quincy Jones, Ann and Nancy Wilson, Nirvana, Modest Mouse and Death Cab for Cutie. Lauren Barberena, 26, said she had never watched "American Idol," but she bounced with the music and held her cell phone high in the air as Lewis, backed by local trio Ari Sawkadoria, sang Keane's "Somewhere Only We Know." "My friend's 11-year-old daughter asked me to call her," she said. "If it's good music, it's good music." Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Passenger killed on Interstate 5 by loose truck wheels Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/entertainment/7440001.html	After record $9.9 million eBay bid, 'Dukes of Hazzard' car buyer fails to pay | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Entertainment After record $9.9 million eBay bid, 'Dukes of Hazzard' car buyer fails to pay Actor John Schneider of the Dukes of Hazzard looks at a replica of the "General Lee", in this file photo from June 11, 2005. Story Published: May 10, 2007 at 7:45 AM PDT Story Updated: May 10, 2007 at 4:20 PM PDT SAN FRANCISCO (AP) - A nearly $10 million eBay bid for a car made famous by "The Dukes of Hazzard" seems to have vanished faster than the Duke boys escaping from the sheriff. The General Lee's owner - actor John Schneider, who played the blond heartthrob Bo Duke in the 1980s television series - is upset that the $9,900,500 winning bid appears to be a hoax. The bid set an eBay record last week. Schneider plans to list his 1969 Dodge Charger with a bricks-and-mortar auction firm that strictly screens buyers, and may file a lawsuit against the bidder, said Allen Stockman, who runs the star's Agoura Hills estate and has sold scripts, memorabilia and other items on eBay for three years. "If this guy was just doing it as a prank or to ruin someone else's chances, he deserves to be hit in the pocketbook," said Stockman, who gave the winning bidder a negative rating in eBay's feedback forum. Schneider, 47, was at a promotion in Las Vegas and could not be reached for comment. The winning bidder - identified on his eBay home page as William Fisher, or "fishbashr1" - did not return e-mails and did not answer the phone listed for his house in Laguna Hills. Schneider's plight is the most recent fraudulent bidding episode at eBay. In December, a Montreal man listed a 40-year-old acetate of "The Velvet Underground & Nico" by Andy Warhol. Bidding began at 99 cents, but after 10 days, 253 bids and numerous articles about the item in the media, the winning bid was $155,401. Within hours, the bid was determined to be a hoax and the item was relisted. In March, bids on a gas grill said to be owned by Red Sox slugger Manny Ramirez reached $99,999,999, the highest bid the Web site was technically capable of listing. EBay pulled the listing after the company couldn't verify the grill was owned by Ramirez. EBay spokeswoman Catherine England said the company doesn't keep track of how many winning bidders renege. "There are all sorts of reasons a transaction may fall through, and we have a claims process for both buyer and seller," England said. When bidding escalated on the General Lee, a customer service agent called Stockman and recommended that he only accept pre-qualified bidders who could prove that they had secured financing. But Stockman said he didn't have the time for credit or background checks. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Passenger killed on Interstate 5 by loose truck wheels Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/entertainment/7460787.html	Survival of a major 'Lost' character in question | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Entertainment Survival of a major 'Lost' character in question Story Published: May 11, 2007 at 7:51 AM PDT Story Updated: May 11, 2007 at 7:51 AM PDT LOS ANGELES (AP) - The survival of a major "Lost" character was left in doubt this week in an episode that shot adrenaline into the plot of the ABC series but failed to give it a needed ratings boost. The Wednesday episode in which Locke (Terry O'Quinn) was shot, perhaps fatally, by Ben (Michael Emerson), the leader of "the Others," drew 12.1 million viewers. That's about the same sized audience the show has been attracting in recent weeks. That compares to the 22 million-plus "Lost" drew at its peak last season, its second. Still, the drama about plane-crash survivors on a mysterious island has been winning its 10 p.m. EDT time slot among the young adult viewers prized by advertisers. "Lost" also is building its audience within the hour, demonstrating that viewers who tune in like what they see. In this week's pivotal episode, the audience got a history lesson about Ben's troubled childhood and a clash between two island factions. Given Locke's importance to the show, the odds seem to be in his favor. But the producers have never been queasy about killing off characters who survived the crash but not the show's complex plot twists. ABC's recent announcement that the show will conclude in the 2009-10 season also might have fans wondering if Locke's shooting is a shocking early start to the show's ultimate resolution. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Passenger killed on Interstate 5 by loose truck wheels Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/entertainment/7429451.html	'American Idol' down to the final three | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Entertainment 'American Idol' down to the final three Story Published: May 9, 2007 at 7:47 PM PDT Story Updated: May 9, 2007 at 7:47 PM PDT NEW YORK (AP) - A kiss from Simon Cowell turned out to be a kiss goodbye. A week after so impressing the cantankerous Cowell that he kissed her, LaKisha Jones was eliminated Wednesday on ''American Idol.'' The Fox talent show is down to its final three contestants. A nervous Jones seemed to have an ominous feeling Wednesday. Host Ryan Seacrest noticed she was talking to herself during one of the commercial breaks, and she admitted to overanalyzing things. Performances of Barry Gibb songs the night before led to a particularly brutal week of Cowell criticism. ''No kiss tonight, baby,'' Cowell had said to Jones. He was even tougher on Blake Lewis, calling one of his takes ''absolutely terrible.'' But asked to choose whether Lewis or Jones would be going home Wednesday, Cowell correctly predicted the results from the 45 million votes. Jones, 27, grew up in Flint, Mich., and is the mother of a toddler. She began singing at age 5, has a passion for gospel but was formally trained in classical music. Tears streamed down her face as she said goodbye - but she stayed long enough to get a career kick-start from ''American Idol.'' Lewis, 25 and the only man left in the competition, overcame Cowell's attack. The fashion police may not forgive his choice of a t-shirt with a painted-on bowtie Wednesday. Lewis is from Bothell, Wash. He'll compete against 17-year-old Jordin Sparks of Glendale, Ariz., the youngest performer left, and Melinda Doolittle, 29, of Brentwood, Tenn. Doolittle, already a professional backup singer, was the first one given entrance into the group of three. Cowell had already predicted the night before that her performance had been enough to keep her in. Gibb, the former Bee Gee, sang his own ''To Love Somebody'' on Wednesday's show, which was padded with marketing opportunities. There was even a lengthy tie-in to an action movie that isn't debuting until next month, complete with a visit from Jessica Alba. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Passenger killed on Interstate 5 by loose truck wheels Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/entertainment/7460657.html	Years after singles were killed off, digital tracks now dominate | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Entertainment Years after singles were killed off, digital tracks now dominate Story Published: May 11, 2007 at 7:44 AM PDT Story Updated: May 11, 2007 at 7:44 AM PDT NEW YORK (AP) - It sounds like a horror movie: a beloved friend is callously exterminated, then reincarnated in a different form to wreak havoc on the killer. That's the nightmare currently facing the music industry. Almost a decade after virtually eliminating 45s and cassette singles, thereby forcing fans to spend more money on whole albums, the digital single is largely responsible for the industry's woes. Consumers no longer need to buy an album if they want that cool jam they heard on the radio - and in growing numbers, they're choosing 99-cent downloads over $15 CDs. Some worry this trend is worsening the quality of albums as a cohesive musical work, and that label executives are more and more interested in quick hits than lasting music or artists. While the vast majority of music consumers still buy CD albums, they are buying less of them, while digital tracks are exploding: According to Nielsen SoundScan, sales of physical CDs this year have declined 20 percent from the same point in 2006, from 112 million to 89 million. Digital tracks are up to 288 million from 242 million at the same period last year. And that's not counting the millions of singles that are illegally downloaded. "Now, we're in a very difference place in terms of the single business," Jim Donio, president of National Association of Recording Merchandisers, said in an interview. "The single business is alive and well, and it's in the form of track downloads." The same cannot be said, however, for albums. Even counting albums that are downloaded along with physical CDs sold, album sales are down 10 percent from the same period last year, according to Nielsen SoundScan, continuing a decline that has been growing for several years. The industry's hard times are evident in recent label consolidations, widespread layoffs, reduction in budgets and an overall air of belt-tightening. In 1996, music companies shipped more than 1.1 billion units - all physical product - for a value of $12.5 billion, according to the Recording Industry Association of America. Ten years later, despite a decline in physical product sold, they industry has "shipped" approximately 1.6 billion units - but its value is down by a billion dollars, to $11.5 billion. "There's probably a fair amount of purchases that would have been albums but are now individual track sales instead," said Geoff Mayfield, director of charts at Billboard magazine. And at 99 cents or so, singles bring in much less profit than albums (which is why iTunes has been pressured by record companies to raise their prices). Other signs show of the singles-driven market: One of the most consistent album chart-toppers is the blockbuster "Now That's What I Call Music!" series, which features a compilation of the hottest tracks of the season and routinely debuts at No. 1. And of course there is the enormous popularity of music download services like iTunes. Recently, iTunes introduce its "Complete the Album" feature, an enticement which gives credit for songs purchased from an album toward purchasing the rest of it. The question remains whether consumers are as interested in completing the albums as they used to. Ciara hopes so. The 21-year-old's latest platinum album, "Ciara: The Evolution," on La Face/Jive Records (a unit of Sony BMG Music Entertainment, a joint venture between Sony Corp. and Bertelsmann AG) wasn't designed to provide just hits, but as an entire experience about her development into a woman, complete with interludes between the tracks. "For me growing up, there was nothing like listening to an album that you could literally sit down and listen to from the beginning to the end," she said. "It can't just be about singles. That's the purpose of an album, it's almost like a story within itself." Avril Lavigne, 22, who's latest album "The Best Damn Thing" on RCA (also a part of Sony BMG) debuted at No. 1, is also still in love with the album: "I'm so all about going to the store and buy a CD." "(But) times are changing," she added. Someday "people aren't going to do records, they're just going to do singles, probably." That would have been hard to believe just a few years ago, given that the single - which gave birth to the recording industry and dominated it for decades - was virtually phased out at a time of huge industry profits. While there are still physical singles in stores, the numbers are so minute that Nielsen SoundScan doesn't even track them. "We tried to stop selling a commercial single because people were making great, great records and albums were selling like hotcakes," says longtime music industry executive Steve Rifkind, founder Street Records Corporation, home to platinum singer/producer Akon, and Loud.com. But removing the option of purchasing a single may not have helped the album much, either - and may have actually boosted the original illegal downloading services like Napster, says Mayfield. "The notion that someone would jump to an album-length purchase because they couldn't find the one song they wanted available was a naive one," he said. Rifkind acknowledges that "we are definitely in a singles market," - but blames the problem on a lack of creativity and "lazy" executives. "People are going after one hit. They are not really caring what the album sounds like ... They are not into artist development anymore. If us as an industry went and started developing talent again, and not worrying about one hit, it would be more than a singles-driven business again." In a recent interview with The Associated Press, Jay-Z, the superstar rapper and president of Def Jam Records, also blamed the quality of the music for the current climate. "We're making disposable music. You can't make disposable music again and again and again and again and not expect anything to happen. We have these huge radio records ... and then won't sell any records," he said. "If you're making just songs, they'll listen to it in the clubs, that's great, they'll listen to it in their car, that's beautiful. Will they buy it? No." Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Man killed by loose truck wheels on Interstate 5 Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Fans turn out to greet local 'Idol' finalist Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/entertainment/7460657.html	Years after singles were killed off, digital tracks now dominate | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Entertainment Years after singles were killed off, digital tracks now dominate Story Published: May 11, 2007 at 7:44 AM PDT Story Updated: May 11, 2007 at 7:44 AM PDT NEW YORK (AP) - It sounds like a horror movie: a beloved friend is callously exterminated, then reincarnated in a different form to wreak havoc on the killer. That's the nightmare currently facing the music industry. Almost a decade after virtually eliminating 45s and cassette singles, thereby forcing fans to spend more money on whole albums, the digital single is largely responsible for the industry's woes. Consumers no longer need to buy an album if they want that cool jam they heard on the radio - and in growing numbers, they're choosing 99-cent downloads over $15 CDs. Some worry this trend is worsening the quality of albums as a cohesive musical work, and that label executives are more and more interested in quick hits than lasting music or artists. While the vast majority of music consumers still buy CD albums, they are buying less of them, while digital tracks are exploding: According to Nielsen SoundScan, sales of physical CDs this year have declined 20 percent from the same point in 2006, from 112 million to 89 million. Digital tracks are up to 288 million from 242 million at the same period last year. And that's not counting the millions of singles that are illegally downloaded. "Now, we're in a very difference place in terms of the single business," Jim Donio, president of National Association of Recording Merchandisers, said in an interview. "The single business is alive and well, and it's in the form of track downloads." The same cannot be said, however, for albums. Even counting albums that are downloaded along with physical CDs sold, album sales are down 10 percent from the same period last year, according to Nielsen SoundScan, continuing a decline that has been growing for several years. The industry's hard times are evident in recent label consolidations, widespread layoffs, reduction in budgets and an overall air of belt-tightening. In 1996, music companies shipped more than 1.1 billion units - all physical product - for a value of $12.5 billion, according to the Recording Industry Association of America. Ten years later, despite a decline in physical product sold, they industry has "shipped" approximately 1.6 billion units - but its value is down by a billion dollars, to $11.5 billion. "There's probably a fair amount of purchases that would have been albums but are now individual track sales instead," said Geoff Mayfield, director of charts at Billboard magazine. And at 99 cents or so, singles bring in much less profit than albums (which is why iTunes has been pressured by record companies to raise their prices). Other signs show of the singles-driven market: One of the most consistent album chart-toppers is the blockbuster "Now That's What I Call Music!" series, which features a compilation of the hottest tracks of the season and routinely debuts at No. 1. And of course there is the enormous popularity of music download services like iTunes. Recently, iTunes introduce its "Complete the Album" feature, an enticement which gives credit for songs purchased from an album toward purchasing the rest of it. The question remains whether consumers are as interested in completing the albums as they used to. Ciara hopes so. The 21-year-old's latest platinum album, "Ciara: The Evolution," on La Face/Jive Records (a unit of Sony BMG Music Entertainment, a joint venture between Sony Corp. and Bertelsmann AG) wasn't designed to provide just hits, but as an entire experience about her development into a woman, complete with interludes between the tracks. "For me growing up, there was nothing like listening to an album that you could literally sit down and listen to from the beginning to the end," she said. "It can't just be about singles. That's the purpose of an album, it's almost like a story within itself." Avril Lavigne, 22, who's latest album "The Best Damn Thing" on RCA (also a part of Sony BMG) debuted at No. 1, is also still in love with the album: "I'm so all about going to the store and buy a CD." "(But) times are changing," she added. Someday "people aren't going to do records, they're just going to do singles, probably." That would have been hard to believe just a few years ago, given that the single - which gave birth to the recording industry and dominated it for decades - was virtually phased out at a time of huge industry profits. While there are still physical singles in stores, the numbers are so minute that Nielsen SoundScan doesn't even track them. "We tried to stop selling a commercial single because people were making great, great records and albums were selling like hotcakes," says longtime music industry executive Steve Rifkind, founder Street Records Corporation, home to platinum singer/producer Akon, and Loud.com. But removing the option of purchasing a single may not have helped the album much, either - and may have actually boosted the original illegal downloading services like Napster, says Mayfield. "The notion that someone would jump to an album-length purchase because they couldn't find the one song they wanted available was a naive one," he said. Rifkind acknowledges that "we are definitely in a singles market," - but blames the problem on a lack of creativity and "lazy" executives. "People are going after one hit. They are not really caring what the album sounds like ... They are not into artist development anymore. If us as an industry went and started developing talent again, and not worrying about one hit, it would be more than a singles-driven business again." In a recent interview with The Associated Press, Jay-Z, the superstar rapper and president of Def Jam Records, also blamed the quality of the music for the current climate. "We're making disposable music. You can't make disposable music again and again and again and again and not expect anything to happen. We have these huge radio records ... and then won't sell any records," he said. "If you're making just songs, they'll listen to it in the clubs, that's great, they'll listen to it in their car, that's beautiful. Will they buy it? No." Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Man killed by loose truck wheels on Interstate 5 Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Fans turn out to greet local 'Idol' finalist Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/entertainment	KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Entertainment Fans turn out to greet local 'Idol' finalist Blake Lewis returned to Seattle on Friday, playing a concert before more than a thousand fans. He was joined onstage by Seattle's own Sir Mix-A-Lot, who sang his hit 'Baby Got Back' over what many in the crowd came to see: Blake's beat-boxing. Survival of a major 'Lost' character in question The survival of a major "Lost" character was left in doubt this week in an episode that shot adrenaline into the plot of the ABC series but failed to give it a needed ratings boost. MPAA makes smoking a bigger factor in assigning film ratings Smoking will be a bigger factor in determining film ratings, the Motion Picture Association of America said Thursday, but critics said the move does not go far enough to discourage teens from taking up the habit. Years after singles were killed off, digital tracks now dominate 'Ocean's Thirteen' stars using film to call attention to Darfur tragedy Burns to add contributions of Hispanic veterans to World War II documentary Paris Hilton: 'I'm ready to face the consequences' 'American Idol' down to the final three After record $9.9 million eBay bid, 'Dukes of Hazzard' car buyer fails to pay Michael Moore faces U.S. Treasury investigation over Cuba trip Fight breaks out during Boston Pops opening night concert Billy Ray Cyrus booted from 'Dancing With the Stars' Schwarzenegger hasn't reviewed Paris Hilton fan petition urging pardon Industry struggles to keep advertisers as figures show fewer people watching TV Rage virus festers in lame sequel '28 Weeks Later' A peek into TV's annual frenzy of pilot season Big bidders expected to boost prices of Grateful Dead memorabilia Brit fashion stylist Isabella Blow dies George Michael pleads guilty to driving while unfit due to drugs Paris Hilton rehires publicist she dumped after jail sentence Judge suspends David Hasselhoff's child visitation rights ABC announces end date for 'Lost' Ty Pennington arrested for DUI Paris Hilton's jail time stint likely to add to her celebrity Timberlake and Diaz reunite for cameras at 'Shrek' premiere 'Spider-Man 3' shatters box-office records with $148 million Ceremony for Don Ho draws thousands in Hawaii At Jazz Fest the final acts mean tradition, sadness and promise Thousands turn out for memorial to Hawaiian crooner Don Ho 'The General' fetches $10 million bid `Spider-Man 3' snares audiences with record $59 million first day Paris Hilton sentenced to 45 days in jail Friend says Katie Holmes is not a prisoner in her marriage Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Man killed by loose truck wheels on Interstate 5 Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Fans turn out to greet local 'Idol' finalist Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/entertainment	KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Entertainment Fans turn out to greet local 'Idol' finalist Blake Lewis returned to Seattle on Friday, playing a concert before more than a thousand fans. He was joined onstage by Seattle's own Sir Mix-A-Lot, who sang his hit 'Baby Got Back' over what many in the crowd came to see: Blake's beat-boxing. Survival of a major 'Lost' character in question The survival of a major "Lost" character was left in doubt this week in an episode that shot adrenaline into the plot of the ABC series but failed to give it a needed ratings boost. MPAA makes smoking a bigger factor in assigning film ratings Smoking will be a bigger factor in determining film ratings, the Motion Picture Association of America said Thursday, but critics said the move does not go far enough to discourage teens from taking up the habit. Years after singles were killed off, digital tracks now dominate 'Ocean's Thirteen' stars using film to call attention to Darfur tragedy Burns to add contributions of Hispanic veterans to World War II documentary Paris Hilton: 'I'm ready to face the consequences' 'American Idol' down to the final three After record $9.9 million eBay bid, 'Dukes of Hazzard' car buyer fails to pay Michael Moore faces U.S. Treasury investigation over Cuba trip Fight breaks out during Boston Pops opening night concert Billy Ray Cyrus booted from 'Dancing With the Stars' Schwarzenegger hasn't reviewed Paris Hilton fan petition urging pardon Industry struggles to keep advertisers as figures show fewer people watching TV Rage virus festers in lame sequel '28 Weeks Later' A peek into TV's annual frenzy of pilot season Big bidders expected to boost prices of Grateful Dead memorabilia Brit fashion stylist Isabella Blow dies George Michael pleads guilty to driving while unfit due to drugs Paris Hilton rehires publicist she dumped after jail sentence Judge suspends David Hasselhoff's child visitation rights ABC announces end date for 'Lost' Ty Pennington arrested for DUI Paris Hilton's jail time stint likely to add to her celebrity Timberlake and Diaz reunite for cameras at 'Shrek' premiere 'Spider-Man 3' shatters box-office records with $148 million Ceremony for Don Ho draws thousands in Hawaii At Jazz Fest the final acts mean tradition, sadness and promise Thousands turn out for memorial to Hawaiian crooner Don Ho 'The General' fetches $10 million bid `Spider-Man 3' snares audiences with record $59 million first day Paris Hilton sentenced to 45 days in jail Friend says Katie Holmes is not a prisoner in her marriage Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Man killed by loose truck wheels on Interstate 5 Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Fans turn out to greet local 'Idol' finalist Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/entertainment/7440061.html	Paris Hilton: 'I'm ready to face the consequences' | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Entertainment Paris Hilton: 'I'm ready to face the consequences' Story Published: May 10, 2007 at 7:48 AM PDT Story Updated: May 10, 2007 at 7:48 AM PDT LOS ANGELES (AP) - Five days after she was sentenced to jail, Paris Hilton says she understands the seriousness of driving under the influence and that she is not "above the law." "I am ready to face the consequences of violating probation," Hilton said in a statement released Wednesday by her new attorney, DUI specialist Richard Hutton. "I do not expect to be treated better than anyone else who violated probation. However, my hope is that I will not be treated worse." The 26-year-old socialite was represented by attorney Howard Weitzman during her probation-violation hearing Friday. A receptionist at Hutton's Pasadena office declined to say when Hilton retained his services. Hutton did not return repeated calls for comment. Hilton said she released the statement because "I feel the need to correct what I believe are misperceptions about me." "I absolutely realize how serious driving under the influence is," she said. "I could not live with myself if anyone was injured or killed while I was driving while impaired. Clearly, no one should - no matter how slightly." The notorious party girl, who parlayed her pampered lifestyle into a reality TV show and a pop CD, was sentenced to 45 days in county jail for violating the terms of her probation in an alcohol-related reckless driving case. A judge ordered her to report to the women's jail in suburban Lynwood by June 5, adding that she will not be allowed any work release, furloughs, use of an alternative jail or electronic monitoring instead of time behind bars. Hilton's original legal team, headed by Weitzman, filed a notice with the court on Friday indicating their intent to appeal the decision. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Man killed by loose truck wheels on Interstate 5 Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Fans turn out to greet local 'Idol' finalist Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/entertainment/7440061.html	Paris Hilton: 'I'm ready to face the consequences' | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Entertainment Paris Hilton: 'I'm ready to face the consequences' Story Published: May 10, 2007 at 7:48 AM PDT Story Updated: May 10, 2007 at 7:48 AM PDT LOS ANGELES (AP) - Five days after she was sentenced to jail, Paris Hilton says she understands the seriousness of driving under the influence and that she is not "above the law." "I am ready to face the consequences of violating probation," Hilton said in a statement released Wednesday by her new attorney, DUI specialist Richard Hutton. "I do not expect to be treated better than anyone else who violated probation. However, my hope is that I will not be treated worse." The 26-year-old socialite was represented by attorney Howard Weitzman during her probation-violation hearing Friday. A receptionist at Hutton's Pasadena office declined to say when Hilton retained his services. Hutton did not return repeated calls for comment. Hilton said she released the statement because "I feel the need to correct what I believe are misperceptions about me." "I absolutely realize how serious driving under the influence is," she said. "I could not live with myself if anyone was injured or killed while I was driving while impaired. Clearly, no one should - no matter how slightly." The notorious party girl, who parlayed her pampered lifestyle into a reality TV show and a pop CD, was sentenced to 45 days in county jail for violating the terms of her probation in an alcohol-related reckless driving case. A judge ordered her to report to the women's jail in suburban Lynwood by June 5, adding that she will not be allowed any work release, furloughs, use of an alternative jail or electronic monitoring instead of time behind bars. Hilton's original legal team, headed by Weitzman, filed a notice with the court on Friday indicating their intent to appeal the decision. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Man killed by loose truck wheels on Interstate 5 Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Fans turn out to greet local 'Idol' finalist Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/entertainment/7460582.html	Burns to add contributions of Hispanic veterans to World War II documentary | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Entertainment Burns to add contributions of Hispanic veterans to World War II documentary Story Published: May 11, 2007 at 7:40 AM PDT Story Updated: May 11, 2007 at 7:40 AM PDT WASHINGTON (AP) - Documentary maker Ken Burns said Thursday he will edit his upcoming PBS series about World War II to add stories about Hispanic soldiers after protests that they had been excluded. A day after meeting with Hispanic advocacy groups, Burns said he had collected interviews with Hispanic veterans that he considered powerful and would incorporate them, along with the veterans' personal documents. "The War," a 14-hour series, is scheduled to air in September. "The role of Hispanic-American veterans in WWII is one that lends itself to the universality of this film and merits being included in my film," Burns said in a statement. "It is adding another layer of storytelling that will only enrich what we already have." Burns was traveling to Paris on Thursday for the Cannes Film Festival, where he planned to show his film, said his publicist Joe DePlasco. Burns discussed his plan for revisions in New York on Wednesday with representatives from the American GI Forum, a Hispanic veterans group, and the Hispanic Association of Corporate Responsibility. Burns initially resisted changes to the completed documentary. Last month, after protests by Hispanic groups, Burns brought aboard a Hispanic documentarian, Hector Galan, and said he would fold in stories of Hispanic veterans during breaks in the series or after the end of an installment. Hispanic groups said that amounted to treating Hispanic veterans as an afterthought. Galan helped Burns find the veterans who will be added to the film, said Dayton Duncan, a partner with Burns at Florentine Films. "Our voices and narratives are going to be included. It's not going to be an add-on or addendum. It will have an impact on our veterans," said Antonio Gil Morales of the American GI Forum. Burns' film, made over six years, tells the story of World War II through people from four communities: Waterbury, Conn.; Mobile, Ala.; Sacramento, Calif.; and Luverne, Minn. Hispanic groups began protesting the documentary after Maggie Rivas-Rodgriguez, a University of Texas at Austin journalism professor who has recorded oral histories of Hispanic veterans, learned they were not in Burns' series. Hispanic members of Congress had recently taken their concerns about Burns' series to its corporate sponsors. Rivas-Rodriguez said she learned of Burns' decision through his announcement Thursday and was unaware of the New York meeting. "We have not signed off on anything," she said. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Man killed by loose truck wheels on Interstate 5 Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Fans turn out to greet local 'Idol' finalist Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/entertainment/7460582.html	Burns to add contributions of Hispanic veterans to World War II documentary | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Entertainment Burns to add contributions of Hispanic veterans to World War II documentary Story Published: May 11, 2007 at 7:40 AM PDT Story Updated: May 11, 2007 at 7:40 AM PDT WASHINGTON (AP) - Documentary maker Ken Burns said Thursday he will edit his upcoming PBS series about World War II to add stories about Hispanic soldiers after protests that they had been excluded. A day after meeting with Hispanic advocacy groups, Burns said he had collected interviews with Hispanic veterans that he considered powerful and would incorporate them, along with the veterans' personal documents. "The War," a 14-hour series, is scheduled to air in September. "The role of Hispanic-American veterans in WWII is one that lends itself to the universality of this film and merits being included in my film," Burns said in a statement. "It is adding another layer of storytelling that will only enrich what we already have." Burns was traveling to Paris on Thursday for the Cannes Film Festival, where he planned to show his film, said his publicist Joe DePlasco. Burns discussed his plan for revisions in New York on Wednesday with representatives from the American GI Forum, a Hispanic veterans group, and the Hispanic Association of Corporate Responsibility. Burns initially resisted changes to the completed documentary. Last month, after protests by Hispanic groups, Burns brought aboard a Hispanic documentarian, Hector Galan, and said he would fold in stories of Hispanic veterans during breaks in the series or after the end of an installment. Hispanic groups said that amounted to treating Hispanic veterans as an afterthought. Galan helped Burns find the veterans who will be added to the film, said Dayton Duncan, a partner with Burns at Florentine Films. "Our voices and narratives are going to be included. It's not going to be an add-on or addendum. It will have an impact on our veterans," said Antonio Gil Morales of the American GI Forum. Burns' film, made over six years, tells the story of World War II through people from four communities: Waterbury, Conn.; Mobile, Ala.; Sacramento, Calif.; and Luverne, Minn. Hispanic groups began protesting the documentary after Maggie Rivas-Rodgriguez, a University of Texas at Austin journalism professor who has recorded oral histories of Hispanic veterans, learned they were not in Burns' series. Hispanic members of Congress had recently taken their concerns about Burns' series to its corporate sponsors. Rivas-Rodriguez said she learned of Burns' decision through his announcement Thursday and was unaware of the New York meeting. "We have not signed off on anything," she said. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Man killed by loose truck wheels on Interstate 5 Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Fans turn out to greet local 'Idol' finalist Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/entertainment/7439966.html	Michael Moore faces U.S. Treasury investigation over Cuba trip | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Entertainment Michael Moore faces U.S. Treasury investigation over Cuba trip Director Michael Moore poses for a portrait Oct. 9, 2002, in Los Angeles. Story Published: May 10, 2007 at 7:43 AM PDT Story Updated: May 10, 2007 at 4:24 PM PDT LOS ANGELES (AP) - Academy Award-winning filmmaker Michael Moore is under investigation by the U.S. Treasury Department for taking ailing Sept. 11 rescue workers to Cuba for a segment in his upcoming health-care documentary "Sicko," The Associated Press has learned. The investigation provides another contentious lead-in for a provocative film by Moore, a fierce critic of President Bush. In the past, Moore's adversaries have fanned publicity that helped the filmmaker create a new brand of opinionated blockbuster documentary. "Sicko" promises to take the health-care industry to task the way Moore confronted America's passion for guns in "Bowling for Columbine" and skewered Bush over his handling of Sept. 11 in "Fahrenheit 9/11." The Treasury Department's Office of Foreign Assets Control notified Moore in a letter dated May 2 that it was conducting a civil investigation for possible violations of the U.S. trade embargo restricting travel to Cuba. A copy of the letter was obtained Tuesday by the AP. "This office has no record that a specific license was issued authorizing you to engage in travel-related transactions involving Cuba," Dale Thompson, OFAC chief of general investigations and field operations, wrote in the letter to Moore. In February, Moore took about 10 ailing workers from the Ground Zero rescue effort in Manhattan for treatment in Cuba, said a person working with the filmmaker on the release of "Sicko." The person requested anonymity because Moore's attorneys had not yet determined how to respond. Moore, who scolded Bush over the Iraq war during the 2003 Oscar telecast, received the letter Monday, the person said. "Sicko" premieres May 19 at the Cannes Film Festival and debuts in U.S. theaters June 29. Moore declined to comment, said spokeswoman Lisa Cohen. After receiving the letter, Moore arranged to place a copy of the film in a "safe house" outside the country to protect it from government interference, said the person working on the release of the film. Treasury officials declined to answer questions about the letter. "We don't comment on enforcement actions," said department spokeswoman Molly Millerwise. The letter noted that Moore applied Oct. 12, 2006, for permission to go to Cuba "but no determination had been made by OFAC." Moore sought permission to travel there under a provision for full-time journalists, the letter said. According to the letter, Moore was given 20 business days to provide OFAC with such information as the date of travel and point of departure; the reason for the Cuba trip and his itinerary there; and the names and addresses of those who accompanied him, along with their reasons for going. Potential penalties for violating the embargo were not indicated. In 2003, the New York Yankees paid the government $75,000 to settle a dispute that it conducted business in Cuba in violation of the embargo. No specifics were released about that case. "Sicko" is Moore's followup to 2004's "Fahrenheit 9/11," a $100 million hit criticizing the Bush administration over Sept. 11. Moore's "Bowling for Columbine" won the 2002 Oscar for best documentary. A dissection of the U.S. health-care system, "Sicko" was inspired by a segment on Moore's TV show "The Awful Truth," in which he staged a mock funeral outside a health-maintenance organization that had declined a pancreas transplant for a diabetic man. The HMO later relented. At last September's Toronto International Film Festival, Moore previewed footage shot for "Sicko," presenting stories of personal health-care nightmares. One scene showed a woman who was denied payment for an ambulance ride after a head-on collision because it was not preapproved. Moore's opponents have accused him of distorting the facts, and his Cuba trip provoked criticism from conservatives including former Republican Sen. Fred Thompson, who assailed the filmmaker in a blog at National Review Online. "I have no expectation that Moore is going to tell the truth about Cuba or health care," wrote Thompson, the subject of speculation about a possible presidential run. "I defend his right to do what he does, but Moore's talent for clever falsehoods has been too well documented." The timing of the investigation is reminiscent of the firestorm that preceded the Cannes debut of "Fahrenheit 9/11," which won the festival's top prize in 2004. The Walt Disney Co. refused to let subsidiary Miramax release the film because of its political content, prompting Miramax bosses Harvey and Bob Weinstein to release "Fahrenheit 9/11" on their own. The Weinsteins later left Miramax to form the Weinstein Co., which is releasing "Sicko." They declined to comment on the Treasury investigation, said company spokeswoman Sarah Levinson Rothman. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Man killed by loose truck wheels on Interstate 5 Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Fans turn out to greet local 'Idol' finalist Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/entertainment/7439966.html	Michael Moore faces U.S. Treasury investigation over Cuba trip | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Entertainment Michael Moore faces U.S. Treasury investigation over Cuba trip Director Michael Moore poses for a portrait Oct. 9, 2002, in Los Angeles. Story Published: May 10, 2007 at 7:43 AM PDT Story Updated: May 10, 2007 at 4:24 PM PDT LOS ANGELES (AP) - Academy Award-winning filmmaker Michael Moore is under investigation by the U.S. Treasury Department for taking ailing Sept. 11 rescue workers to Cuba for a segment in his upcoming health-care documentary "Sicko," The Associated Press has learned. The investigation provides another contentious lead-in for a provocative film by Moore, a fierce critic of President Bush. In the past, Moore's adversaries have fanned publicity that helped the filmmaker create a new brand of opinionated blockbuster documentary. "Sicko" promises to take the health-care industry to task the way Moore confronted America's passion for guns in "Bowling for Columbine" and skewered Bush over his handling of Sept. 11 in "Fahrenheit 9/11." The Treasury Department's Office of Foreign Assets Control notified Moore in a letter dated May 2 that it was conducting a civil investigation for possible violations of the U.S. trade embargo restricting travel to Cuba. A copy of the letter was obtained Tuesday by the AP. "This office has no record that a specific license was issued authorizing you to engage in travel-related transactions involving Cuba," Dale Thompson, OFAC chief of general investigations and field operations, wrote in the letter to Moore. In February, Moore took about 10 ailing workers from the Ground Zero rescue effort in Manhattan for treatment in Cuba, said a person working with the filmmaker on the release of "Sicko." The person requested anonymity because Moore's attorneys had not yet determined how to respond. Moore, who scolded Bush over the Iraq war during the 2003 Oscar telecast, received the letter Monday, the person said. "Sicko" premieres May 19 at the Cannes Film Festival and debuts in U.S. theaters June 29. Moore declined to comment, said spokeswoman Lisa Cohen. After receiving the letter, Moore arranged to place a copy of the film in a "safe house" outside the country to protect it from government interference, said the person working on the release of the film. Treasury officials declined to answer questions about the letter. "We don't comment on enforcement actions," said department spokeswoman Molly Millerwise. The letter noted that Moore applied Oct. 12, 2006, for permission to go to Cuba "but no determination had been made by OFAC." Moore sought permission to travel there under a provision for full-time journalists, the letter said. According to the letter, Moore was given 20 business days to provide OFAC with such information as the date of travel and point of departure; the reason for the Cuba trip and his itinerary there; and the names and addresses of those who accompanied him, along with their reasons for going. Potential penalties for violating the embargo were not indicated. In 2003, the New York Yankees paid the government $75,000 to settle a dispute that it conducted business in Cuba in violation of the embargo. No specifics were released about that case. "Sicko" is Moore's followup to 2004's "Fahrenheit 9/11," a $100 million hit criticizing the Bush administration over Sept. 11. Moore's "Bowling for Columbine" won the 2002 Oscar for best documentary. A dissection of the U.S. health-care system, "Sicko" was inspired by a segment on Moore's TV show "The Awful Truth," in which he staged a mock funeral outside a health-maintenance organization that had declined a pancreas transplant for a diabetic man. The HMO later relented. At last September's Toronto International Film Festival, Moore previewed footage shot for "Sicko," presenting stories of personal health-care nightmares. One scene showed a woman who was denied payment for an ambulance ride after a head-on collision because it was not preapproved. Moore's opponents have accused him of distorting the facts, and his Cuba trip provoked criticism from conservatives including former Republican Sen. Fred Thompson, who assailed the filmmaker in a blog at National Review Online. "I have no expectation that Moore is going to tell the truth about Cuba or health care," wrote Thompson, the subject of speculation about a possible presidential run. "I defend his right to do what he does, but Moore's talent for clever falsehoods has been too well documented." The timing of the investigation is reminiscent of the firestorm that preceded the Cannes debut of "Fahrenheit 9/11," which won the festival's top prize in 2004. The Walt Disney Co. refused to let subsidiary Miramax release the film because of its political content, prompting Miramax bosses Harvey and Bob Weinstein to release "Fahrenheit 9/11" on their own. The Weinsteins later left Miramax to form the Weinstein Co., which is releasing "Sicko." They declined to comment on the Treasury investigation, said company spokeswoman Sarah Levinson Rothman. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Man killed by loose truck wheels on Interstate 5 Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Fans turn out to greet local 'Idol' finalist Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/entertainment/7460607.html	'Ocean's Thirteen' stars using film to call attention to Darfur tragedy | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Entertainment 'Ocean's Thirteen' stars using film to call attention to Darfur tragedy Story Published: May 11, 2007 at 7:42 AM PDT Story Updated: May 11, 2007 at 7:42 AM PDT LOS ANGELES (AP) - George Clooney, Brad Pitt and other stars of "Ocean's Thirteen" have agreed to use the lighthearted caper film to call attention to a more serious cause - the genocide in Sudan's western Darfur region. Clooney, Pitt, Matt Damon and Don Cheadle along with producer Jerry Weintraub are using events surrounding the movie's premiere next month to promote their Web site, www.notonourwatchproject.org., which is partnering with the International Rescue Committee to raise funds to aid the hundreds of thousands of people uprooted by the Darfur conflict. "All the guys have been to the Sudan this year. They saw this huge genocide and nobody doing anything about it," Weintraub said in an interview Thursday. "Clooney got attention earlier, but it faded." "What we are trying to do here is bring our celebrity to raise money and bring a spotlight on Sudan again. We decided to dedicate ourselves to this. The thing I am most proud of by far is that these events will benefit a cause that is very important to me and my colleagues." There will be benefit screenings of "Ocean's Thirteen," a Warner Bros. Pictures release, to raise funds for Not On Our Watch and the IRC, including a special June 6 screening at the CineVegas Film Festival in Las Vegas, where Weintraub will receive a special Vanguard Producer Award celebrating his half-century in show business. Other events surrounding the film's June 8 nationwide release include the May 24 fundraising debut in Cannes, France, and the June 5 North American premiere at Grauman's Chinese Theatre, where Clooney and the other stars will leave their footprints in the wet cement outside the Hollywood tourist spot. In "Ocean's Thirteen," directed by Steven Soderbergh, Clooney reprises his role as Danny Ocean, who reassembles his crew of master criminals to take revenge on a hated Las Vegas businessman and casino owner played by Al Pacino. The 69-year-old Weintraub plans to visit the Darfur region later this year. "It's not a pleasant place to go," he said. "They don't need another tourist like me going there. I can do a lot more good here raising money. But I will go. We are all very good friends so when one does something we all get onboard." At least 200,000 people have died and 2.5 million have been chased from their homes since 2003 when ethnic African rebels in Darfur rose up against the Arab-dominated central government. The Sudanese government is accused of retaliating by arming local nomadic tribes and unleashing militias known as the janjaweed - a charge the government denies. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Man killed by loose truck wheels on Interstate 5 Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Fans turn out to greet local 'Idol' finalist Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/entertainment/7460607.html	'Ocean's Thirteen' stars using film to call attention to Darfur tragedy | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Entertainment 'Ocean's Thirteen' stars using film to call attention to Darfur tragedy Story Published: May 11, 2007 at 7:42 AM PDT Story Updated: May 11, 2007 at 7:42 AM PDT LOS ANGELES (AP) - George Clooney, Brad Pitt and other stars of "Ocean's Thirteen" have agreed to use the lighthearted caper film to call attention to a more serious cause - the genocide in Sudan's western Darfur region. Clooney, Pitt, Matt Damon and Don Cheadle along with producer Jerry Weintraub are using events surrounding the movie's premiere next month to promote their Web site, www.notonourwatchproject.org., which is partnering with the International Rescue Committee to raise funds to aid the hundreds of thousands of people uprooted by the Darfur conflict. "All the guys have been to the Sudan this year. They saw this huge genocide and nobody doing anything about it," Weintraub said in an interview Thursday. "Clooney got attention earlier, but it faded." "What we are trying to do here is bring our celebrity to raise money and bring a spotlight on Sudan again. We decided to dedicate ourselves to this. The thing I am most proud of by far is that these events will benefit a cause that is very important to me and my colleagues." There will be benefit screenings of "Ocean's Thirteen," a Warner Bros. Pictures release, to raise funds for Not On Our Watch and the IRC, including a special June 6 screening at the CineVegas Film Festival in Las Vegas, where Weintraub will receive a special Vanguard Producer Award celebrating his half-century in show business. Other events surrounding the film's June 8 nationwide release include the May 24 fundraising debut in Cannes, France, and the June 5 North American premiere at Grauman's Chinese Theatre, where Clooney and the other stars will leave their footprints in the wet cement outside the Hollywood tourist spot. In "Ocean's Thirteen," directed by Steven Soderbergh, Clooney reprises his role as Danny Ocean, who reassembles his crew of master criminals to take revenge on a hated Las Vegas businessman and casino owner played by Al Pacino. The 69-year-old Weintraub plans to visit the Darfur region later this year. "It's not a pleasant place to go," he said. "They don't need another tourist like me going there. I can do a lot more good here raising money. But I will go. We are all very good friends so when one does something we all get onboard." At least 200,000 people have died and 2.5 million have been chased from their homes since 2003 when ethnic African rebels in Darfur rose up against the Arab-dominated central government. The Sudanese government is accused of retaliating by arming local nomadic tribes and unleashing militias known as the janjaweed - a charge the government denies. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Man killed by loose truck wheels on Interstate 5 Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Fans turn out to greet local 'Idol' finalist Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/entertainment/7468752.html	Fans turn out to greet local 'Idol' finalist | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Entertainment Fans turn out to greet local 'Idol' finalist American Idol finalist Blake Lewis performs in concert on Friday, May 11, 2007 at Westlake Center in Seattle. Story Published: May 11, 2007 at 3:29 PM PDT Story Updated: May 11, 2007 at 4:49 PM PDT SEATTLE (AP) - Baby got back, and Seattle got Blake. "American Idol" finalist Blake Lewis returned to Seattle on Friday, playing a free concert before more than a thousand fans at Westlake Park, where he was joined onstage by Seattle's own Sir Mix-A-Lot. Mix-A-Lot sang his hit "Baby Got Back" over what many in the crowd came to see: Blake's beat-boxing. "Every time you watch 'American Idol,' you see people that can sing, and that's it," Mix-A-Lot said to wild applause. "This cat got real talent. ... He's the new king of Sea-town, baby." Lewis, 25, is one of three remaining contestants on Fox's wildly popular singing contest, and his homecoming plans included a parade in his suburban hometown of Bothell and the national anthem at the Mariners-Yankees game Friday night. He looked out on the crowd in the warm midday sunshine and said: "I'm speechless. Thank you guys for all the support." But Lewis directed most of his onstage banter at urging his fans to support local music, giving repeated shout-outs to rising Seattle hip-hop stars Blue Scholars and Common Market. "A lot's changed since I saw you last," Common Market's RA Scion said to him before unleashing a torrent of lyrics over Lewis' beat-boxing. Many in the crowd, populated largely by truant teenage girls, screamed and waved signs that read "Blaker Girls" or "We (heart) Blake." Blaire Ginnever, a 14-year-old eighth-grader, said she was skipping her lunch period and Spanish class at Villa Academy in Seattle. "Blake es muy bueno," she said. Her favorite part? "The beat-boxing - it's just, like, unique and nobody else can do it on the show." Ginnever's mom, Marilyn, was also in the crowd, and said she didn't mind that her daughter was missing school. "It's the end of the year, and this is big for Seattle," she said. "We follow the show. It's kind of a family event, and rooting for a hometown boy makes it special." City Councilwoman Jean Godden, who is old enough to remember a significant chunk of Seattle's musical history, read a proclamation declaring Friday "Blake Lewis Day" and placing the "reknowned beat-box musician" in a local tradition that includes Jimi Hendrix, Quincy Jones, Ann and Nancy Wilson, Nirvana, Modest Mouse and Death Cab for Cutie. Lauren Barberena, 26, said she had never watched "American Idol," but she bounced with the music and held her cell phone high in the air as Lewis, backed by local trio Ari Sawkadoria, sang Keane's "Somewhere Only We Know." "My friend's 11-year-old daughter asked me to call her," she said. "If it's good music, it's good music." Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Man killed by loose truck wheels on Interstate 5 Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Fans turn out to greet local 'Idol' finalist Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/entertainment/7468752.html	Fans turn out to greet local 'Idol' finalist | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Entertainment Fans turn out to greet local 'Idol' finalist American Idol finalist Blake Lewis performs in concert on Friday, May 11, 2007 at Westlake Center in Seattle. Story Published: May 11, 2007 at 3:29 PM PDT Story Updated: May 11, 2007 at 4:49 PM PDT SEATTLE (AP) - Baby got back, and Seattle got Blake. "American Idol" finalist Blake Lewis returned to Seattle on Friday, playing a free concert before more than a thousand fans at Westlake Park, where he was joined onstage by Seattle's own Sir Mix-A-Lot. Mix-A-Lot sang his hit "Baby Got Back" over what many in the crowd came to see: Blake's beat-boxing. "Every time you watch 'American Idol,' you see people that can sing, and that's it," Mix-A-Lot said to wild applause. "This cat got real talent. ... He's the new king of Sea-town, baby." Lewis, 25, is one of three remaining contestants on Fox's wildly popular singing contest, and his homecoming plans included a parade in his suburban hometown of Bothell and the national anthem at the Mariners-Yankees game Friday night. He looked out on the crowd in the warm midday sunshine and said: "I'm speechless. Thank you guys for all the support." But Lewis directed most of his onstage banter at urging his fans to support local music, giving repeated shout-outs to rising Seattle hip-hop stars Blue Scholars and Common Market. "A lot's changed since I saw you last," Common Market's RA Scion said to him before unleashing a torrent of lyrics over Lewis' beat-boxing. Many in the crowd, populated largely by truant teenage girls, screamed and waved signs that read "Blaker Girls" or "We (heart) Blake." Blaire Ginnever, a 14-year-old eighth-grader, said she was skipping her lunch period and Spanish class at Villa Academy in Seattle. "Blake es muy bueno," she said. Her favorite part? "The beat-boxing - it's just, like, unique and nobody else can do it on the show." Ginnever's mom, Marilyn, was also in the crowd, and said she didn't mind that her daughter was missing school. "It's the end of the year, and this is big for Seattle," she said. "We follow the show. It's kind of a family event, and rooting for a hometown boy makes it special." City Councilwoman Jean Godden, who is old enough to remember a significant chunk of Seattle's musical history, read a proclamation declaring Friday "Blake Lewis Day" and placing the "reknowned beat-box musician" in a local tradition that includes Jimi Hendrix, Quincy Jones, Ann and Nancy Wilson, Nirvana, Modest Mouse and Death Cab for Cutie. Lauren Barberena, 26, said she had never watched "American Idol," but she bounced with the music and held her cell phone high in the air as Lewis, backed by local trio Ari Sawkadoria, sang Keane's "Somewhere Only We Know." "My friend's 11-year-old daughter asked me to call her," she said. "If it's good music, it's good music." Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Man killed by loose truck wheels on Interstate 5 Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Fans turn out to greet local 'Idol' finalist Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/entertainment/7440001.html	After record $9.9 million eBay bid, 'Dukes of Hazzard' car buyer fails to pay | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Entertainment After record $9.9 million eBay bid, 'Dukes of Hazzard' car buyer fails to pay Actor John Schneider of the Dukes of Hazzard looks at a replica of the "General Lee", in this file photo from June 11, 2005. Story Published: May 10, 2007 at 7:45 AM PDT Story Updated: May 10, 2007 at 4:20 PM PDT SAN FRANCISCO (AP) - A nearly $10 million eBay bid for a car made famous by "The Dukes of Hazzard" seems to have vanished faster than the Duke boys escaping from the sheriff. The General Lee's owner - actor John Schneider, who played the blond heartthrob Bo Duke in the 1980s television series - is upset that the $9,900,500 winning bid appears to be a hoax. The bid set an eBay record last week. Schneider plans to list his 1969 Dodge Charger with a bricks-and-mortar auction firm that strictly screens buyers, and may file a lawsuit against the bidder, said Allen Stockman, who runs the star's Agoura Hills estate and has sold scripts, memorabilia and other items on eBay for three years. "If this guy was just doing it as a prank or to ruin someone else's chances, he deserves to be hit in the pocketbook," said Stockman, who gave the winning bidder a negative rating in eBay's feedback forum. Schneider, 47, was at a promotion in Las Vegas and could not be reached for comment. The winning bidder - identified on his eBay home page as William Fisher, or "fishbashr1" - did not return e-mails and did not answer the phone listed for his house in Laguna Hills. Schneider's plight is the most recent fraudulent bidding episode at eBay. In December, a Montreal man listed a 40-year-old acetate of "The Velvet Underground & Nico" by Andy Warhol. Bidding began at 99 cents, but after 10 days, 253 bids and numerous articles about the item in the media, the winning bid was $155,401. Within hours, the bid was determined to be a hoax and the item was relisted. In March, bids on a gas grill said to be owned by Red Sox slugger Manny Ramirez reached $99,999,999, the highest bid the Web site was technically capable of listing. EBay pulled the listing after the company couldn't verify the grill was owned by Ramirez. EBay spokeswoman Catherine England said the company doesn't keep track of how many winning bidders renege. "There are all sorts of reasons a transaction may fall through, and we have a claims process for both buyer and seller," England said. When bidding escalated on the General Lee, a customer service agent called Stockman and recommended that he only accept pre-qualified bidders who could prove that they had secured financing. But Stockman said he didn't have the time for credit or background checks. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Man killed by loose truck wheels on Interstate 5 Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Fans turn out to greet local 'Idol' finalist Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/entertainment/7440001.html	After record $9.9 million eBay bid, 'Dukes of Hazzard' car buyer fails to pay | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Entertainment After record $9.9 million eBay bid, 'Dukes of Hazzard' car buyer fails to pay Actor John Schneider of the Dukes of Hazzard looks at a replica of the "General Lee", in this file photo from June 11, 2005. Story Published: May 10, 2007 at 7:45 AM PDT Story Updated: May 10, 2007 at 4:20 PM PDT SAN FRANCISCO (AP) - A nearly $10 million eBay bid for a car made famous by "The Dukes of Hazzard" seems to have vanished faster than the Duke boys escaping from the sheriff. The General Lee's owner - actor John Schneider, who played the blond heartthrob Bo Duke in the 1980s television series - is upset that the $9,900,500 winning bid appears to be a hoax. The bid set an eBay record last week. Schneider plans to list his 1969 Dodge Charger with a bricks-and-mortar auction firm that strictly screens buyers, and may file a lawsuit against the bidder, said Allen Stockman, who runs the star's Agoura Hills estate and has sold scripts, memorabilia and other items on eBay for three years. "If this guy was just doing it as a prank or to ruin someone else's chances, he deserves to be hit in the pocketbook," said Stockman, who gave the winning bidder a negative rating in eBay's feedback forum. Schneider, 47, was at a promotion in Las Vegas and could not be reached for comment. The winning bidder - identified on his eBay home page as William Fisher, or "fishbashr1" - did not return e-mails and did not answer the phone listed for his house in Laguna Hills. Schneider's plight is the most recent fraudulent bidding episode at eBay. In December, a Montreal man listed a 40-year-old acetate of "The Velvet Underground & Nico" by Andy Warhol. Bidding began at 99 cents, but after 10 days, 253 bids and numerous articles about the item in the media, the winning bid was $155,401. Within hours, the bid was determined to be a hoax and the item was relisted. In March, bids on a gas grill said to be owned by Red Sox slugger Manny Ramirez reached $99,999,999, the highest bid the Web site was technically capable of listing. EBay pulled the listing after the company couldn't verify the grill was owned by Ramirez. EBay spokeswoman Catherine England said the company doesn't keep track of how many winning bidders renege. "There are all sorts of reasons a transaction may fall through, and we have a claims process for both buyer and seller," England said. When bidding escalated on the General Lee, a customer service agent called Stockman and recommended that he only accept pre-qualified bidders who could prove that they had secured financing. But Stockman said he didn't have the time for credit or background checks. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Man killed by loose truck wheels on Interstate 5 Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Fans turn out to greet local 'Idol' finalist Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/entertainment/7460787.html	Survival of a major 'Lost' character in question | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Entertainment Survival of a major 'Lost' character in question Story Published: May 11, 2007 at 7:51 AM PDT Story Updated: May 11, 2007 at 7:51 AM PDT LOS ANGELES (AP) - The survival of a major "Lost" character was left in doubt this week in an episode that shot adrenaline into the plot of the ABC series but failed to give it a needed ratings boost. The Wednesday episode in which Locke (Terry O'Quinn) was shot, perhaps fatally, by Ben (Michael Emerson), the leader of "the Others," drew 12.1 million viewers. That's about the same sized audience the show has been attracting in recent weeks. That compares to the 22 million-plus "Lost" drew at its peak last season, its second. Still, the drama about plane-crash survivors on a mysterious island has been winning its 10 p.m. EDT time slot among the young adult viewers prized by advertisers. "Lost" also is building its audience within the hour, demonstrating that viewers who tune in like what they see. In this week's pivotal episode, the audience got a history lesson about Ben's troubled childhood and a clash between two island factions. Given Locke's importance to the show, the odds seem to be in his favor. But the producers have never been queasy about killing off characters who survived the crash but not the show's complex plot twists. ABC's recent announcement that the show will conclude in the 2009-10 season also might have fans wondering if Locke's shooting is a shocking early start to the show's ultimate resolution. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Man killed by loose truck wheels on Interstate 5 Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Fans turn out to greet local 'Idol' finalist Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/entertainment/7460787.html	Survival of a major 'Lost' character in question | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Entertainment Survival of a major 'Lost' character in question Story Published: May 11, 2007 at 7:51 AM PDT Story Updated: May 11, 2007 at 7:51 AM PDT LOS ANGELES (AP) - The survival of a major "Lost" character was left in doubt this week in an episode that shot adrenaline into the plot of the ABC series but failed to give it a needed ratings boost. The Wednesday episode in which Locke (Terry O'Quinn) was shot, perhaps fatally, by Ben (Michael Emerson), the leader of "the Others," drew 12.1 million viewers. That's about the same sized audience the show has been attracting in recent weeks. That compares to the 22 million-plus "Lost" drew at its peak last season, its second. Still, the drama about plane-crash survivors on a mysterious island has been winning its 10 p.m. EDT time slot among the young adult viewers prized by advertisers. "Lost" also is building its audience within the hour, demonstrating that viewers who tune in like what they see. In this week's pivotal episode, the audience got a history lesson about Ben's troubled childhood and a clash between two island factions. Given Locke's importance to the show, the odds seem to be in his favor. But the producers have never been queasy about killing off characters who survived the crash but not the show's complex plot twists. ABC's recent announcement that the show will conclude in the 2009-10 season also might have fans wondering if Locke's shooting is a shocking early start to the show's ultimate resolution. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Man killed by loose truck wheels on Interstate 5 Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Fans turn out to greet local 'Idol' finalist Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/entertainment/7429451.html	'American Idol' down to the final three | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Entertainment 'American Idol' down to the final three Story Published: May 9, 2007 at 7:47 PM PDT Story Updated: May 9, 2007 at 7:47 PM PDT NEW YORK (AP) - A kiss from Simon Cowell turned out to be a kiss goodbye. A week after so impressing the cantankerous Cowell that he kissed her, LaKisha Jones was eliminated Wednesday on ''American Idol.'' The Fox talent show is down to its final three contestants. A nervous Jones seemed to have an ominous feeling Wednesday. Host Ryan Seacrest noticed she was talking to herself during one of the commercial breaks, and she admitted to overanalyzing things. Performances of Barry Gibb songs the night before led to a particularly brutal week of Cowell criticism. ''No kiss tonight, baby,'' Cowell had said to Jones. He was even tougher on Blake Lewis, calling one of his takes ''absolutely terrible.'' But asked to choose whether Lewis or Jones would be going home Wednesday, Cowell correctly predicted the results from the 45 million votes. Jones, 27, grew up in Flint, Mich., and is the mother of a toddler. She began singing at age 5, has a passion for gospel but was formally trained in classical music. Tears streamed down her face as she said goodbye - but she stayed long enough to get a career kick-start from ''American Idol.'' Lewis, 25 and the only man left in the competition, overcame Cowell's attack. The fashion police may not forgive his choice of a t-shirt with a painted-on bowtie Wednesday. Lewis is from Bothell, Wash. He'll compete against 17-year-old Jordin Sparks of Glendale, Ariz., the youngest performer left, and Melinda Doolittle, 29, of Brentwood, Tenn. Doolittle, already a professional backup singer, was the first one given entrance into the group of three. Cowell had already predicted the night before that her performance had been enough to keep her in. Gibb, the former Bee Gee, sang his own ''To Love Somebody'' on Wednesday's show, which was padded with marketing opportunities. There was even a lengthy tie-in to an action movie that isn't debuting until next month, complete with a visit from Jessica Alba. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Man killed by loose truck wheels on Interstate 5 Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Fans turn out to greet local 'Idol' finalist Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/entertainment/7429451.html	'American Idol' down to the final three | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Entertainment 'American Idol' down to the final three Story Published: May 9, 2007 at 7:47 PM PDT Story Updated: May 9, 2007 at 7:47 PM PDT NEW YORK (AP) - A kiss from Simon Cowell turned out to be a kiss goodbye. A week after so impressing the cantankerous Cowell that he kissed her, LaKisha Jones was eliminated Wednesday on ''American Idol.'' The Fox talent show is down to its final three contestants. A nervous Jones seemed to have an ominous feeling Wednesday. Host Ryan Seacrest noticed she was talking to herself during one of the commercial breaks, and she admitted to overanalyzing things. Performances of Barry Gibb songs the night before led to a particularly brutal week of Cowell criticism. ''No kiss tonight, baby,'' Cowell had said to Jones. He was even tougher on Blake Lewis, calling one of his takes ''absolutely terrible.'' But asked to choose whether Lewis or Jones would be going home Wednesday, Cowell correctly predicted the results from the 45 million votes. Jones, 27, grew up in Flint, Mich., and is the mother of a toddler. She began singing at age 5, has a passion for gospel but was formally trained in classical music. Tears streamed down her face as she said goodbye - but she stayed long enough to get a career kick-start from ''American Idol.'' Lewis, 25 and the only man left in the competition, overcame Cowell's attack. The fashion police may not forgive his choice of a t-shirt with a painted-on bowtie Wednesday. Lewis is from Bothell, Wash. He'll compete against 17-year-old Jordin Sparks of Glendale, Ariz., the youngest performer left, and Melinda Doolittle, 29, of Brentwood, Tenn. Doolittle, already a professional backup singer, was the first one given entrance into the group of three. Cowell had already predicted the night before that her performance had been enough to keep her in. Gibb, the former Bee Gee, sang his own ''To Love Somebody'' on Wednesday's show, which was padded with marketing opportunities. There was even a lengthy tie-in to an action movie that isn't debuting until next month, complete with a visit from Jessica Alba. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Man killed by loose truck wheels on Interstate 5 Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Fans turn out to greet local 'Idol' finalist Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
