http://www.komotv.com/news/national/7451286.html	House rejects 9-month withdrawal for troops, agrees to guarantee funds only through July | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | National & World News House rejects 9-month withdrawal for troops, agrees to guarantee funds only through July House Speaker Nancy Pelosi of Calif., second from left, accompanied by fellow House Democratic leaders, talks to reporters on Capitol Hill in Washington, Thursday, May 10, 2007, after a closed-door meeting to discuss Iraq war legislation. From left are, House Majority Whip James Clyburn of S.C., Pelosi, House Democratic Caucus Chairman Rep. Rahm Emanuel, D-Ill. and House Majority Leader Steny Hoyer of Md. Story Published: May 10, 2007 at 5:29 PM PDT Story Updated: May 10, 2007 at 5:29 PM PDT WASHINGTON (AP) - The Democratic-controlled House voted Thursday night to pay for military operations in Iraq on an installment plan, defying President Bush's threat of a second straight veto in a fierce test of wills over the unpopular war. The 221-205 vote, largely along party lines, sent the measure to a cool reception in the Senate, where Majority Leader Harry Reid, D-Nev., is seeking compromise with the White House and Republicans on a funding bill. Under increasing political pressure from Republicans, Bush also signalled flexibility, offering to accept a spending bill that sets out standards for the Iraqi government to meet. "Time's running out, because the longer we wait the more strain we're going to put on the military," said the president, who previously had insisted on what he termed a "clean" war funding bill. Bush and key lawmakers have stepped up expressions of frustration with the government in Baghdad in recent weeks, and Iraqi Deputy Prime Minister Barham Saleh spent his day in a series of meetings with key senators appealing for patience. In a brief interview with The Associated Press, Saleh said the purpose of the meetings was to convey the "imperative of success against terrorism and extremism" in the Middle East. Despite Bush's ability to sustain his vetoes in Congress - the House upheld his rejection of a troop withdrawal timetable last week - Democrats called for votes on two separate bills Thursday that challenged him on the war. "Democrats are not going to give the president a blank check for a war without end," vowed House Speaker Nancy Pelosi of California. The first measure would have required the withdrawal of U.S. combat forces from Iraq within nine months. It fell, 255-171, with 59 Democrats joining almost all Republicans in opposition. "This war is a terrible tragedy and it is time to bring it to an end," said Rep. James McGovern, leading advocate of the bill to establish a nine-month withdrawal timetable. "For four long, deadly years, this administration and their allies in Congress have been flat wrong about Iraq," said the Massachusetts Democrat. Republicans argued that a withdrawal would be disastrous. "Now is not the time to signal retreat and surrender. How could this Congress walk away from our men and women in uniform," said Rep. Jerry Lewis, R-Calif. A few hours later, the House passed legislation providing funds for the war grudgingly, in two installments. The first portion would cover costs until Aug. 1 - $42.8 billion to buy equipment and train Iraqi and Afghan security forces. Under the bill, it would take a summertime vote by Congress to free an additional $52.8 billion, the money needed to cover costs through the Sept. 30 end of the fiscal year. "We reject that idea. It won't work," the president declared after a meeting with military leaders at the Pentagon. Democratic officials, speaking privately, said Pelosi had agreed to allow the vote on the withdrawal measure in the hope that her rank-and-file would then unite behind the funding bill. But in an increasingly complex political environment, even that measure was deemed to be dead on arrival in the Senate, where Democrats hold a narrow advantage and the rules give Republicans leverage to block legislation. Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, D-Nev., has met privately in recent days with White House Chief of Staff Josh Bolten and Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., the beginning of talks aimed at producing a compromise funding bill that Bush would sign. In a speech in January, Bush listed several goals for the Iraqis, including legislation to share oil revenue among all Iraqis, spending $10 billion on job-creating reconstruction projects, holding provincial elections, overhauling de-Baathification laws and creating a fair process for considering amendments to the constitution. But in contrast to many lawmakers, the administration has not yet publicly accepted proposals to make future reconstruction funds conditional on Baghdad's progress in achieving the goals. Bush and the Democratic leaders were maneuvering in a complicated political environment. Republican lawmakers have grown increasingly restive about a war that they believe cost them their congressional majorities in last fall's elections. In a private meeting with Bush and several key administration officials at the White House, 11 moderate GOP lawmakers bluntly told Bush that the status quo was unsustainable and could mean further election losses next year. But Pelosi and Reid face obstacles of their own. They are determined to make sure that essential funding for the war is not cut off. At the same time, they are laboring to keep faith with their own rank-and-file, with the war-weary voters who installed them in power, and with MoveOn.org and other groups whose overriding goal is to force the withdrawal of the U.S. combat troops. MoveOn.org, in particular, has played a key behind-the-scenes role in the months since Congress convened under Democratic majorities. The group, which played a highly visible role in last year's election campaign, acquiesced in an early Democratic strategy of seeking approval for nonbinding measures to pressure Bush to change his plans. In recent weeks, that has changed. Fearing that Democrats ultimately will surrender and give Bush the money he wants, the organization sent Reid and Pelosi a letter saying that if Democrats "appear to capitulate to Bush on Iraq, MoveOn will move to a position of opposition." Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Passenger killed on Interstate 5 by loose truck wheels Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/national/7460487.html	Hundreds flee wildfire on resort island off California coast | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | National & World News Hundreds flee wildfire on resort island off California coast Story Published: May 11, 2007 at 7:32 AM PDT Story Updated: May 11, 2007 at 8:29 AM PDT AVALON, Calif. (AP) - Firefighters struggled early Friday to protect a resort island's main city from a wildfire that forced hundreds of residents to flee on ferries as ash rained down like snow. One home and a few small businesses in the canyons outside the city burned, but the weather helped firefighters keep most properties safe, Fire Chief Steven Hoefs said. Some 1,200 homes were under voluntary or mandatory evacuation orders. "The risk has been reduced significantly," Hoefs said. "Most of the structures have been protected." The blaze broke out Thursday afternoon and grew to 4,000 acres as it fed on dry brush, fanned by a steady wind into the night on the island about 30 miles off the Southern California mainland. The orange inferno loomed behind the quaint crescent harbor, landmark 1929 Catalina Casino and homes, restaurants and tiny hotels clinging to slopes above the waterfront. As flames threatened the city limits of Avalon, hundreds of people lined up at the harbor Thursday night to board ferries to the mainland. Many covered their faces with towels and bandanas as ashes fell. Resident Kathy Troeger fled with her three children and a friend's daughter, while her husband, a fire captain, stayed behind to fight the blaze. "It was like a nightmare when we left," she said after arriving at the mainland port of Long Beach. "You couldn't breathe, and ash was falling like snow." At least 160 firefighters, aided by four water-dropping helicopters and three retardant-dropping air tankers, battled flames through most of Thursday. The helicopters flew into the night and were expected to be back in the air at dawn Friday. Dozens of fire engines arrived through the night from as far away as Fresno, carried by giant military hovercraft from the Marine Corps' Camp Pendleton. Wind calmed during the night and the air grew moist, although the threat remained. About 175 homes and businesses lost electricity when power poles caught on fire. In Avalon, authorities used a bullhorn to urge people to evacuate and head to the beach. Visitors were directed to the historic art deco Casino until it lost power, while residents were sent to another harbor site. The Catalina Express ferry service added night departures of 400-passenger vessels. A family of eight said they had just enough time to pack some clothes and personal papers before fleeing. "I'm scared," said Angelica Romero, 30, holding her 7-month-old daughter. "But what's important is I have my children. The rest doesn't matter." About 85 people checked into an evacuation center set up at a high school, the Red Cross said. Despite being well offshore, Catalina has been left parched by the lack of rainfall that has made the rest of Southern California particularly susceptible to wildfires like the one in Los Angeles' Griffith Park this week. Firefighters were still working Friday to surround what remained of that fire, which briefly chased people from homes and threatened the park's landmark observatory and zoo. Officials had expected the blaze to be fully contained by Thursday, two days after it peaked, but fire crews were still building containment lines around the fire's perimeter late into the night, though no visible flames remained. Catalina has gotten only 2 inches of rain since January. A long, narrow island, Catalina covers 76 square miles and is served by helicopters and ferry boats from Los Angeles, Long Beach and other mainland harbors. Avalon has a population of 3,200 that swells to more than 10,000 on weekends and in summer, according to the Catalina Island Chamber of Commerce and Visitors Bureau. Most the island is owned by the Santa Catalina Island Conservancy and is home to various wildlife. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Passenger killed on Interstate 5 by loose truck wheels Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/national/7460372.html	Poll: Public gives both Congress, Bush low approval ratings | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | National & World News Poll: Public gives both Congress, Bush low approval ratings President Bush addresses the Republican National Committee Gala at the DC Armory Thursday, May 10, 2007 in Washington. Story Published: May 11, 2007 at 7:26 AM PDT Story Updated: May 11, 2007 at 7:26 AM PDT WASHINGTON (AP) - People think the Democratic-led Congress is doing just as dreary a job as President Bush, following four months of bitter political standoffs that have seen little progress on Iraq and a host of domestic issues. An AP-Ipsos poll also found that House Speaker Nancy Pelosi is a more popular figure than the president and her colleagues on Capitol Hill, though she faces a gender gap in which significantly more women than men support her. The survey found only 35 percent approve of how Congress is handling its job, down 5 percentage points in a month. That gives lawmakers the same bleak approval rating as Bush, who has been mired at about that level since last fall, including his dip to a record low for the AP-Ipsos poll of 32 percent last January. "It's mostly Iraq" plus a lack of progress in other areas, said Rep. Tom Cole, R-Okla., who heads the House GOP's campaign committee. "These are not good numbers for an incumbent, and it doesn't matter if you have an 'R' or a 'D' next to your name." Democrats agree that the problem is largely Iraq, which has dominated this year's session of Congress while producing little more than this month's Bush veto of a bill requiring the withdrawal of U.S. troops. It has also overshadowed House-passed bills on stem cell research, student loans and other subjects that the White House opposes, they say. "People are unhappy, there hasn't been a lot of change in direction, for example in Iraq," said Rep. Chris Van Hollen, D-Md., chairman of House Democrats' campaign effort. Rising gasoline prices could also be a factor, lawmakers said. In another measure of popular discontent, the survey found that 71 percent say the country is on the wrong track - about even with the 73 percent who said so last May, the worst level since the AP-Ipsos poll began in December 2003. The survey was taken Monday through Wednesday, before Bush offered to seek compromise with congressional Democrats over a war spending bill setting benchmarks for progress in Iraq. Bush told reporters Thursday that if pollsters had asked his opinion about Iraq last fall, "I'd have said I disapprove of what was going on in Iraq. They could have put me down as part of the disapproval process." That was before his decision to send nearly 30,000 additional troops to Iraq, which "would more likely cause me to approve of what's going on in Iraq," he added. Overall approval of Bush was steady from last month, but fell to 69 percent among Republicans, about 7 percentage points below where it had been in April. Earlier this week, a group of GOP moderate House members warned Bush that the status quo in Iraq could mean Republican election losses next year. "If the war doesn't begin to turn around, Republicans will have problems," said Rep. Peter King, R-N.Y., who said he supports Bush's Iraq policy. White House spokesman Tony Snow declined to comment on the poll. Congress' approval rating this week was 10 points higher than a year ago, when Republicans were in control. But after bumping up in April, this month's drop left lawmakers' job approval where it was when the year began. April saw Congress defy Bush and send him a bill financing the war and requiring a troop withdrawal, which he vetoed May 1. "People wanted change in Washington" on many issues, not just Iraq, said Rep. Rahm Emanuel, D-Ill., a member of the House Democratic leadership. "I'm not surprised about where people are. They're hearing only about Iraq." Congress' reduced appeal was evident in several categories of people. Only 48 percent of Democrats said they approved of Congress, down from 55 percent last month. That included a 12 percentage point drop among Democratic women, though support from Democratic men remained steady. Approval by minorities also fell a dozen points to 39 percent, with a similar reduction among people whose family incomes exceed $75,000. By region, the steepest drop was in the Midwest, where approval fell by 10 percentage points to 28 percent. Congress' highest approval was in the Northeast, where four in ten gave it a positive rating. As for Pelosi, D-Calif., her overall approval of 45 percent stood 10 points higher than Bush's and Congress'. She was seen favorably by 52 percent of women, but only 39 percent of men. While whites are closely split about her, minorities approve of her job by a 15-point margin. Pelosi's numbers are about where she was last month but slightly lower than in January. In the last month, she has lost significant support from younger voters, college-educated women and Westerners. "Voters are frustrated by the fact that the president refuses to change direction on Iraq," said Pelosi spokesman Brendan Daly. Bush's approval ratings are lowest for his handling of Iraq and domestic issues including health care, with about one-third seeing him favorably. About four in 10 like the job he is doing on the economy and foreign policy. Men give the president higher grades than women do, whites higher than minorities, and married people higher than singles. The AP-Ipsos survey involved telephone interviews with 1,000 adults. It has a margin of sampling error of plus or minus 3 percentage points. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Passenger killed on Interstate 5 by loose truck wheels Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/national/7439756.html	Prosecutors to seek death penalty in wildfire that killed 5 firefighters | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | National & World News Prosecutors to seek death penalty in wildfire that killed 5 firefighters Arson suspect Raymond Lee Oyler is seen during a court appearance in this file photo taken Friday, Dec. 15, 2006. Story Published: May 10, 2007 at 7:30 AM PDT Story Updated: May 10, 2007 at 7:30 AM PDT RIVERSIDE, Calif. (AP) - A prosecutor said Wednesday he will pursue the death penalty against the man accused of setting a wildfire that killed five firefighters last fall. Riverside County District Attorney Rod Pacheco said he made the decision after reviewing the evidence and consulting with the firefighters' family members, who were split on the capital punishment question. He said several factors, including Raymond Lee Oyler's criminal record and the severe losses suffered by the community, influenced his decision. Oyler, a 36-year-old auto mechanic, is charged with five counts of first-degree murder, 17 counts of using an incendiary device and 23 counts of arson. He was arrested Oct. 31 after the wind-whipped Esperanza fire raced through the foothills near Banning, about 90 miles east of Los Angeles. "I considered what I personally considered to be an incredible and callous disregard to the safety of the firefighters who would respond to the fires over a period of time," Pacheco said. "He expressed on numerous occasions that he wanted to burn the mountain down." Oyler was convicted in 2001 on a drug possession charge and has had run-ins with the law in California and Missouri. Defense attorney Mark McDonald said Oyler expected the decision. "That said, Mr. Oyler has always been and still remains confident that the issue of death will never come before a jury anyway," McDonald said. "He's confident he won't be convicted of the Esperanza Fire and the related fires." During a hearing two months ago, Oyler's fiancee and second cousin testified that he had boasted about lighting fires in the Banning Pass area during the summer months. Crystal Breazile, however, denied that her fiance set the blaze that claimed the U.S. Forest Service firefighters' lives. Breazile, who has a young daughter with Oyler, said she and Oyler were watching televised reports of another arson wildfire in late May when the auto mechanic told her he had started the blaze. She testified that she threatened to leave him if he didn't stop setting fires. Oyler's second cousin also testified that Oyler told her he spent the night of Oct. 21 casing a mountain in the Banning area for a good spot to set a fire and said he set "some small fires" there the next day, cousin Jill Frame testified. Prosecutors allege Oyler set the fires in the Banning Pass area using devices made of wooden stick matches and Marlboro cigarettes. Investigators have said that they were able to match Oyler's DNA with samples from cigarette butts used to start fires on June 9 and June 10, but not to the device used to start the Esperanza blaze. Firefighters Jason McKay, 27; Jess McLean, 27; Daniel Hoover-Najera, 20; Mark Loutzenhiser, 43, and Pablo Cerda, 23, were overrun by flames Oct. 26 while protecting a home. Some 10,000 people attended their memorial service. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Passenger killed on Interstate 5 by loose truck wheels Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/national/7460417.html	Parents drop Katrina as baby name because of hurricane | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | National & World News Parents drop Katrina as baby name because of hurricane Story Published: May 11, 2007 at 7:28 AM PDT Story Updated: May 11, 2007 at 7:28 AM PDT WASHINGTON (AP) - As baby names go, Katrina isn't in vogue these days. But she isn't persona non grata, either. From its peak in the 1980s - when it regularly ranked among the 100 most popular names that parents chose for their daughters - it had gradually slumped to 247th by 2005, even before Hurricane Katrina smashed the Gulf Coast in late summer of that year. The name's association with the catastrophe has now knocked it out of consideration for most parents, sinking its popularity to the lowest ebb since the 1950s. Only about 850 baby girls in the United States were named Katrina last year, according to new data released Friday by the Social Security Administration, dropping it more than 100 slots on the popularity list. At a rank of 382nd, it now sits just below Brenna. Ironically, the two states that suffered most of Katrina's wrath bucked the trend, if only in small numbers. In Louisiana, the number of babies named Katrina jumped from eight in the 12 months before the storm to 15 in the 12 months after, according to state health officials. In Mississippi, seven babies were given the name from 2004 until the storm hit in August 2005, according to state data. The number climbed to 24 from September 2005 through the end of 2006. The national trend surprised Cleveland Evans, a psychology professor and names expert at Bellevue University in Nebraska. Usually, he said, publicity around a name - positive or negative - will cause it to spike. After Hurricane Camille devastated the Gulf Coast in 1969, for example, the name Camille quickly became more popular, he said. "So many parents are looking for a new, unusual name, there are always a few of them who are going to take it from any cultural event," said Evans, the past president of the American Name Society. "There must be some sort of (negative) threshold and Katrina must have crossed it." Still, he said Katrina isn't likely to go extinct. "This is not going to be a name like Adolf that's going to disappear and be unusable ever again," he said, referring to that name's association with Adolf Hitler. "Even though it will be associated with this disaster I think there are enough other associations that it will continue to be a popular name." That was the case with Scarlett and Stephen Billis, a Los Angeles-area couple who named their daughter Katrina last May. Scarlett Billis said they were reluctant to use the name less than a year after the hurricane, but her husband had always liked it as a variation of Katherine, a family name. Also, their family is Greek and the name is close to the popular Greek name Katerina. "People ask if we named her after the hurricane," Billis said. "We didn't pick it because of that and we were actually hesitant ... but we do joke that our house looks like a hurricane hit." Overall, the country's most popular names list hasn't changed much since 2005. Emily and Jacob remain atop the list. Emily has been the top girls' name since 1996; Jacob for boys since 1999. Sophia cracked the top 10 list for the first time, and William returned after dropping off in 2005. Coming in last in the agency's rankings, which only go up to 1,000, were Jarvis and Flor. The rankings, which the Social Security Administration releases each year just before Mother's Day, which is Sunday, are based on some 4.2 million Social Security card applications from 2006. The agency counts all spelling variations differently, so some names with alternate spellings - like Ashley and Ashlee - are more popular than the rankings indicate. Generally, Evans said, naming customs in the U.S. have grown increasingly decentralized, with far more variety in the past. That explains how traditional names like John and Mary have been replaced by upstarts like Ethan and Emma on the most popular list. "There are so many young parents who don't want to give their children one of the most popular names," he said. "It's much more spread out now, and one reason is that this information is now so readily available. "I know a lot of people of my generation who named their children Ashley or Jessica and who said they would have never named their children that if they had known they were so popular. Well today, you don't really have that excuse." Social Security began compiling the name lists in 1997. The agency offers lists of baby names for each year since 1880 on its Web site: http://www.socialsecurity.gov Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Passenger killed on Interstate 5 by loose truck wheels Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/national/7459792.html	Wildfire threatens Calif. resort city | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | National & World News Wildfire threatens Calif. resort city A fire fighting helicopter passes over the raging wildfire as it approached the town of Avalon on Catalina Island, Calif. (AP Photo/Kevork Djansezian) Story Published: May 11, 2007 at 10:16 AM PDT Story Updated: May 11, 2007 at 10:16 AM PDT By ANDREW GLAZER Associated Press Writer AVALON, Calif. (AP) - Firefighters struggled early Friday to prevent a wildfire from reaching homes on the edge of Santa Catalina Island's main city as residents and visitors fled the resort isle off the Southern California coast. At least 160 firefighters, aided by four water-dropping helicopters and three retardant-dropping air tankers, battled flames through most of Thursday. The helicopters flew into the night and were expected to be back in the air at dawn Friday. Dozens of fire engines from as far away as Fresno arrived through the night aboard giant military hovercraft from the Marine Corps' Camp Pendleton. The high-speed hovercraft can carry 60 tons over land or water and are often used by the military on humanitarian missions. The blaze broke out Thursday afternoon on the island more than 20 miles off the coast. Flames threatened the city limits of Avalon, where hundreds of people lined up at the harbor Thursday night to board ferries back to the mainland. Many covered their faces with towels and bandanas as ashes fell. A few homes burned but firefighters were protecting other properties late into the night, Avalon Fire Chief Steven Hoefs said. About 1,200 homes were under voluntary or mandatory evacuation orders. ''We're hanging in for now,'' Hoefs said. The blaze that began five miles east of the island's airport grew to 4,000 acres, feeding on dry brush as winds steadily blew throughout the day and into the night. Winds later calmed and the air grew moist, although the threat remained. An orange inferno loomed behind the quaint crescent harbor, landmark 1929 Catalina Casino and homes, restaurants and tiny hotels clinging to slopes above the waterfront. A commercial building and several warehouse structures burned, and 175 utility customers lost electricity when power poles caught on fire. Overnight, Blackhawk and Chinook helicopters were ferrying in firefighters - 32 at a time. Hand crews were being positioned at the city's edge to protect homes. ''We're on defense mode for now,'' Hoefs said. In Avalon, authorities used a bullhorn to urge people to evacuate and head to the beach. Visitors were directed to the historic art deco Casino until it lost power, while residents were sent to another harbor site. The Catalina Express ferry service added several night departures of 400-passenger vessels from Avalon. Hundreds of residents and visitors boarded the ferries to reach the mainland. A family of eight said they had just enough time to pack some clothes and personal papers before fleeing. ''I'm scared,'' said Angelica Romero, 30, holding her 7-month-old daughter. ''But what's important is I have my children. The rest doesn't matter.'' At the mainland port of Long Beach, island resident Kathy Troeger arrived on a ferry with her three children and a friend's daughter. Her husband, a captain in county fire's Baywatch division, stayed behind to help fight the fire. ''It was like a nightmare when we left,'' she said. ''You couldn't breathe and ash was falling like snow.'' An evacuation center was set up at Cabrillo High School, where about 85 people had checked in, according to the Red Cross. Despite being well offshore, Catalina has been left parched by the lack of rainfall that has made the rest of Southern California particularly susceptible to wildfires like the one in Los Angeles' Griffith Park this week. Firefighters were still working Friday to surround what remained of the fire, which briefly chased people from homes and threatened the park's landmark observatory and zoo. Officials had expected the blaze to be fully contained by Thursday, two days after it peaked, but fire crews were still building containment lines around the fire's perimeter late into the night, though no visible flames remained. Only 2 inches of rain have fallen on Catalina since January. A long, narrow island, Catalina covers 76 square miles and is served by helicopters and ferry boats from Los Angeles, Long Beach and other mainland harbors. Avalon has a population of 3,200 that swells to more than 10,000 on weekends and in summer, according to the Catalina Island Chamber of Commerce and Visitors Bureau. Most the island is owned by the Santa Catalina Island Conservancy and is home to a various wildlife. Associated Press writers Daisy Nguyen and Christina Almeida in Los Angeles and Gillian Flaccus in Long Beach contributed to this report. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Passenger killed on Interstate 5 by loose truck wheels Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/national	KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | National & World News Top National & World News Story Authorities investigate possible terror threat on U.S. interests in Germany Authorities had no indication of an imminent attack within Germany or the U.S., said FBI special agent Richard Kolko. "We remind the public to remain vigilant and report any suspicious activity to the appropriate law enforcement authorities," he said. 2 killed when small airplanes collide over Cincinnati suburb Two small aircraft collided Friday over suburban Cincinnati, raining debris onto roads and backyards and killing two people on board, authorities said. Blue Angels regroup for N.C. show, first since fatal crash For Blue Angels pilots, whose demeanor is a key part of the job, the tragedy offers another opportunity to perform the mission they were first given six decades ago: promote the U.S. Navy and U.S. Marines Corps to the world. National & World News Headlines Hundreds flee wildfire on resort island off California coast Parents drop Katrina as baby name because of hurricane Poll: Public gives both Congress, Bush low approval ratings Koreas adopt agreement enabling historic train crossing of their border Runaway trailer starts deadly crash on Chesapeake Bay bridge House rejects 9-month withdrawal for troops, agrees to guarantee funds only through July Prime Minister Tony Blair says he will resign in June Wildfire threatens Calif. resort city Prosecutors to seek death penalty in wildfire that killed 5 firefighters French president-elect defends luxury yacht trip Wildfires, floods, tropical weather make life miserable across nation Moderates in Congress labor to break Iraq funding impasse British police make 4 arrests related to 2005 suicide bombings in London Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Store clerk's tip was key to foiling Fort Dix terror plot Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest Experts forecast 2007 hurricane season to be more active than usual FBI: Mobsters competed for credit for hit on social club bandits Gunmen seize 4 U.S. workers in Nigeria amid escalating violence in oil region Tennessee executes inmate convicted of killing police officer Cheney makes unannounced visit to Iraq Six killed when train slams into SUV Archaeologists find tomb of King Herod Navy helicopter crash kills 5 on training flight at base in Nevada Queen Elizabeth concludes 6-day visit to U.S. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Passenger killed on Interstate 5 by loose truck wheels Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/national/7460302.html	Runaway trailer starts deadly crash on Chesapeake Bay bridge | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | National & World News Runaway trailer starts deadly crash on Chesapeake Bay bridge Story Published: May 11, 2007 at 7:20 AM PDT Story Updated: May 11, 2007 at 7:20 AM PDT ANNAPOLIS, Md. (AP) - A runaway trailer started a chain-reaction crash on the Chesapeake Bay bridge, killing three people and injuring five others as dozens of vehicles swerved to avoid it, authorities said. As crumpled trucks were hauled away Thursday evening, structural engineers examined the bridge by boat, air and foot and it was found to be structurally sound and safe, said Marcus Brown, chief of the Maryland Transportation Authority Police. Friday morning, all lanes were open again. The bridge, officially known as the William Preston Lane Jr. Memorial Bridge, is the main artery connecting Maryland's Eastern Shore with the rest of the state. With the westbound lanes closed all night, stores on the eastern side were busy. "They can't get across the bridge to go home so they're just hanging out until the bridge opens up. It's good for business, but it's not good for me here all alone," said Melodie Shreve, who was working by herself at the Shore Stop in Stevensville. The Best Western in Grasonville, a few miles from the bridge, sold out by 8 p.m. Melissa Hess, the front desk supervisor, said some guests who had suites even gave up their second room to help stranded motorists. The crash started when a small flatbed trailer being pulled by an SUV came unattached shortly after 4 p.m. at the start of the bridge's westbound span. In all, seven vehicles crashed, including a tanker hauling animal fat and a tow truck. "Other vehicles that were following swerved to avoid a trailer and that's what started this collision," said police Cpl. Jonathan Green. He described it as an "unbelievable crash scene" with vehicles pinned against each other and the railings, but said none went off the bridge. Brown said it was too early in the investigation to say whether charges would be filed. One person was flown to the University of Maryland Shock Trauma Center with life-threatening injuries; four others had less serious injuries, Brown said. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Passenger killed on Interstate 5 by loose truck wheels Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/national/7439811.html	Prime Minister Tony Blair says he will resign in June | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | National & World News Prime Minister Tony Blair says he will resign in June Story Published: May 10, 2007 at 7:34 AM PDT Story Updated: May 10, 2007 at 7:34 AM PDT TRIMDON, England (AP) - Tony Blair said Thursday he would step down as prime minister on June 27, closing a decade of power in which he fostered peace in Northern Ireland and followed the United States to a war in Iraq that cost him much of his popularity. In a somber farewell, Blair made way for Treasury chief Gordon Brown to take the top post. The British leader looked overcome with emotion, struggling to retain his trademark broad grin as loud cheers rang out. Following the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks in the United States, it was right, Blair said, to "stand shoulder to shoulder with our oldest ally, and I did so out of belief." "Hand on heart, I did what I thought was right," Blair told party workers and supporters at Trimdon Labour Club in his Sedgefield constituency in northern England. "I may have been wrong, but that's your call. But believe one thing if nothing else. I did what I thought was right for our country." Brown, Blair's dour partner in reforming the Labour Party and a sometimes impatient rival in government, was expected to easily win election as the party's new leader and become the next prime minister. Brown has never criticized Blair's decision to go to war in Iraq and has given no indication on how he will steer Britain's role in the conflict. Blair, 54, has stopped just short of openly endorsing Brown, a stern Scot who lacks his charisma and common touch. The two men stuck together during the 2005 election campaign, at one point famously facing the cameras and eating ice cream. The camaraderie sometimes seemed forced, though they rarely disagreed in public on the issues. On one occasion as he sat beside Blair during that campaign, Brown was asked whether he would have done the same as the prime minister over Iraq. There was a long pause before Brown said: "Yes." The government has declared its hopes of withdrawing from front-line operations this year - a move certain to please a public anxious to see an end to the conflict. In London, Laura Phillips, 21, a banker, reflected the anti-war mood. "I'll fight for him if he gets our troops out of Iraq," she said. Blair embraced dozens of local Labour activists as he arrived to greet around 250 supporters packed into the former mining village's Labour clubhouse. Some chanted "four more years," but were chided by the leader as he began his speech. "That's not on message for today," Blair joked. For his long-expected announcement, Blair returned to the district where he won election to Parliament in 1983, and where he announced in 1994 that he was a candidate for Labour Party leader. Blair's announcement came days after he celebrated the 10th anniversary of Labour's landslide election victory of May 1, 1997. Since then, he has been one of the most praised, and reviled, leaders in British history - the man who transformed the Labour Party, helped end Northern Ireland's troubles but angered many of his supporters by committing Britain to a bloody, unpopular war in Iraq. When he was elected at 43 in 1997, Blair was the youngest prime minister of the 20th century - the first born after World War II and the only one to have played in a college rock band, Ugly Rumours. He transformed Labour from an old-style social-democratic party to centrist "New Labour" and led it to three consecutive election victories. Under the stewardship of Blair and Brown, the British economy has thrived. London rivals New York as the world's pre-eminent financial center, GDP is up, unemployment is down and interest rates are low, though rising. However, Blair's promised health and education reforms remain incomplete, and soaring house prices and increasing personal debt threaten to widen the divide between haves and have-nots. Nonetheless, his supporters say Blair will be remembered for helping the poor. "It's a nostalgic day but we're here to celebrate of all of Tony Blair's achievements, he's done so much to help the people of this country, and so much to lift people out of poverty," said Maureen Lenehan, an official at the Trimdon Labour Club. Blair announced his departure date two days after the formation of Northern Ireland's full power-sharing administration, a goal he spent much of his premiership striving to achieve. But despite his accomplishments, Blair's legacy looks to be dominated by Iraq. His decision to stand should-to-shoulder with President Bush by committing troops for the invasion divided his party and the country. Blair said he was content for history to judge him, but four years on and with almost 150 British troops dead in Iraq, the war is more unpopular than ever. His last months in office also have been overshadowed by a police investigation into claims that his party and the opposition traded political honors for cash. Senior Blair aide Ruth Turner, Blair's chief fundraiser Lord Levy and two others have been arrested during the police inquiry into claims that seats in the House of Lords and other honors were awarded in exchange for party donations. Prosecutors are considering whether anyone should be charged. Blair was questioned twice by police as a witness, but is not considered a suspect. In recent months, Blair's thoughts have turned to the lessons of his decade in power. "When I first started in politics, I wanted to please everyone," Blair said during a tour of the Middle East in December. "After a time I learned that you can't please everyone, and you learn that the best thing is to do what you think is right and everyone can make their judgment." Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Passenger killed on Interstate 5 by loose truck wheels Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/national/7460322.html	Koreas adopt agreement enabling historic train crossing of their border | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | National & World News Koreas adopt agreement enabling historic train crossing of their border South Korean tourists watch a train running on the rail, which two Koreas hope to reconnect as part of an agreement reached at a summit in 2000. Story Published: May 11, 2007 at 7:22 AM PDT Story Updated: May 11, 2007 at 7:22 AM PDT SEOUL, South Korea (AP) - North and South Korea adopted a military agreement Friday enabling the first train crossing of their heavily armed border in more than half a century, the South's Defense Ministry said. The rail test, planned for Thursday, would be the first time trains have crossed the tightly sealed border since inter-Korean rail links were severed in the middle of the 1950-53 Korean War. Two tracks have been reconnected as part of a series of reconciliation projects launched since the two sides held the first-ever summit of their leaders in 2000. The test would be just a single run of trains along the restored tracks on each side of the peninsula, with regular train service between the two sides unlikely to begin anytime soon. The two Koreas had agreed in principle on security for the rail test earlier this week, but the adoption of a formal agreement came only after more than 30 hours of extended talks that stretched into Friday due to unspecified sticking points. South Korea hopes the inter-Korean railways could ultimately be linked to Russia's Trans-Siberian railroad, and could allow an overland route connecting the peninsula to Europe - significantly cutting delivery times for freight that now requires sea transport. Economic officials from both sides agreed last month to conduct the train run, but North Korea's military had the final say on whether it goes forward because such a border crossing requires security arrangements. The security accord sets out protocols for the train crossings next week, including what areas of the border should open and for how long, as well as pledges from each side to guarantee travelers' safety. South Korea had hoped to expand the agreement to cover similar future border crossings, but the North refused. The two sides also agreed in principle to set up a joint fishing area around their disputed western sea border and continue talks on that issue and other measures aimed at preventing accidental clashes in the area, according to a joint statement summarizing the negotiations' outcome. North Korea doesn't recognize the current sea border demarcated by the United Nations at the end of the 1950-53 Korean War, and has long claimed it should be further south. The waters around the border are rich fishing grounds and boats from the two Koreas routinely jostle for position during the May-June crab-catching season. In 1999 and 2002, their navies fought deadly skirmishes, killing several sailors and sinking six ships. The two sides agreed to hold the next general-level talks in July and continue discussions to set up a defense ministers' meeting, the joint statement said. This week's talks were the first high-level military contacts between the two sides in a year. The two Koreas remain technically at war because the Korean War ended in a cease-fire that has never been replaced with a peace treaty. Ties between the two sides have warmed significantly since the 2000 summit, although they suffered during the international standoff over North Korea's nuclear ambitions. Pyongyang conducted its first-ever nuclear test in October, chilling relations with the South. But the South began reaching out again to the North after Pyongyang agreed in February to shut down its nuclear reactor under an agreement with the United States and four other neighboring countries. Still, the communist regime missed an April deadline to close the reactor because of a separate financial dispute with the United States, and it is unclear when it will close down the facility. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Passenger killed on Interstate 5 by loose truck wheels Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/national/7439546.html	French president-elect defends luxury yacht trip | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | National & World News French president-elect defends luxury yacht trip The Paloma yacht carrying French President-elect Nicolas Sarkozy, visible at left, enters Valetta Grand Harbour, in Malta. Story Published: May 10, 2007 at 7:21 AM PDT Story Updated: May 10, 2007 at 7:21 AM PDT PARIS (AP) - President-elect Nicolas Sarkozy refused to apologize Wednesday for taking a luxury yacht trip criticized by his political opponents as indecent, saying he had the right to rest a week before taking office. A day after his election Sunday, Sarkozy whisked his wife and son off for a tour around Malta while violence erupted in several cities around France. Bands - thought to be mainly but not exclusively leftist militants - torched more than 1,200 cars in three days, and vandals broke windows at the local headquarters of Sarkozy's Union for a Popular Movement party in southeastern Villeurbanne. Interior Minister Francois Baroin said at least 80 people were detained Tuesday night and that the unrest was ebbing. Even before his expected return Wednesday evening, the conservative Sarkozy defended his mini-vacation aboard nearly 200-foot yacht on loan from billionaire investor Vincent Bollore. "I have no intention of apologizing," he said by telephone to Europe-1 radio, adding that he had a full week before taking on "the supreme responsibilities of president of the republic in as calm a mood as possible. "I'm taking two and a half days. I don't think anyone can argue with that." Outgoing President Jacques Chirac, who held his final Cabinet meeting Wednesday, will turn over power to Sarkozy on May 16 after 12 years in office. Former Socialist Justice Minister Elisabeth Guigou called Sarkozy's escapade "scandalous" and "indecent." "All this money when he pretends to be the ... president of all the French," she said on the TV station iTele. Such an "ostentatious" display was "shocking to the great masses of French who have a hard time making ends meet." Sarkozy defeated Socialist candidate Segolene Royal, winning a mandate to rejuvenate a sluggish economy and bring France firmly into the era of globalization with a dose of market-liberating policies. Later this week, Sarkozy will meet with British Prime Minister Tony Blair in Paris, Sarkozy's press office said, without giving a date. The two are believed to have close relations but differing opinions on the future of the European Union. Paparazzi have captured images of Sarkozy, 52, on the yacht and jogging on an island off Malta. Government spokesman Jean-Francois Cope asked the left-wing opposition to end "personal attacks" on Sarkozy, who has been criticized as too fond of money and glitz. The state, he added in an interview on France-2 television, was not paying for the mini-vacation. Sarkozy, former interior minister and friend of France's top industrialists, served for years as mayor of Neuilly, a wealthy Paris suburb. Sarkozy defended his billionaire friend Bollore on Europe-1. "It is not shameful to have worked hard, to have created a big (investment) group, to have given people jobs," he said. Former Prime Minister Jean-Pierre Raffarin also defended Sarkozy's retreat, saying the president-elect needed to "recharge his batteries" after a grueling campaign. "Nicolas Sarkozy has the right to three days of happiness with his family," Raffarin said on RTL radio. "It's from May 16 that the French will judge the new president." The leftist opposition, along with unions, fear Sarkozy will dismantle workers' benefits and favor the rich over the poor. "We were warned. Mr. Sarkozy never said he would be the president of the ... poor," Sen. Jean-Luc Melenchon was quoted as saying in the daily Liberation. "He is the president of the CAC40," the French stock market. The leader of the Workers' Force union warned that Sarkozy would have a tough time pushing through a key proposal to guarantee minimum service during public transport strikes. Sarkozy's victory does not give him "a blank check to apply each of his promises," Jean-Clause Mailly told the business daily Les Echos. "We have already let Nicolas Sarkozy know that there is no question of us negotiating" an accord on minimum service, he said. "Minimum service in public transport puts into question the right to strike." Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Passenger killed on Interstate 5 by loose truck wheels Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/national/7451286.html	House rejects 9-month withdrawal for troops, agrees to guarantee funds only through July | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | National & World News House rejects 9-month withdrawal for troops, agrees to guarantee funds only through July House Speaker Nancy Pelosi of Calif., second from left, accompanied by fellow House Democratic leaders, talks to reporters on Capitol Hill in Washington, Thursday, May 10, 2007, after a closed-door meeting to discuss Iraq war legislation. From left are, House Majority Whip James Clyburn of S.C., Pelosi, House Democratic Caucus Chairman Rep. Rahm Emanuel, D-Ill. and House Majority Leader Steny Hoyer of Md. Story Published: May 10, 2007 at 5:29 PM PDT Story Updated: May 10, 2007 at 5:29 PM PDT WASHINGTON (AP) - The Democratic-controlled House voted Thursday night to pay for military operations in Iraq on an installment plan, defying President Bush's threat of a second straight veto in a fierce test of wills over the unpopular war. The 221-205 vote, largely along party lines, sent the measure to a cool reception in the Senate, where Majority Leader Harry Reid, D-Nev., is seeking compromise with the White House and Republicans on a funding bill. Under increasing political pressure from Republicans, Bush also signalled flexibility, offering to accept a spending bill that sets out standards for the Iraqi government to meet. "Time's running out, because the longer we wait the more strain we're going to put on the military," said the president, who previously had insisted on what he termed a "clean" war funding bill. Bush and key lawmakers have stepped up expressions of frustration with the government in Baghdad in recent weeks, and Iraqi Deputy Prime Minister Barham Saleh spent his day in a series of meetings with key senators appealing for patience. In a brief interview with The Associated Press, Saleh said the purpose of the meetings was to convey the "imperative of success against terrorism and extremism" in the Middle East. Despite Bush's ability to sustain his vetoes in Congress - the House upheld his rejection of a troop withdrawal timetable last week - Democrats called for votes on two separate bills Thursday that challenged him on the war. "Democrats are not going to give the president a blank check for a war without end," vowed House Speaker Nancy Pelosi of California. The first measure would have required the withdrawal of U.S. combat forces from Iraq within nine months. It fell, 255-171, with 59 Democrats joining almost all Republicans in opposition. "This war is a terrible tragedy and it is time to bring it to an end," said Rep. James McGovern, leading advocate of the bill to establish a nine-month withdrawal timetable. "For four long, deadly years, this administration and their allies in Congress have been flat wrong about Iraq," said the Massachusetts Democrat. Republicans argued that a withdrawal would be disastrous. "Now is not the time to signal retreat and surrender. How could this Congress walk away from our men and women in uniform," said Rep. Jerry Lewis, R-Calif. A few hours later, the House passed legislation providing funds for the war grudgingly, in two installments. The first portion would cover costs until Aug. 1 - $42.8 billion to buy equipment and train Iraqi and Afghan security forces. Under the bill, it would take a summertime vote by Congress to free an additional $52.8 billion, the money needed to cover costs through the Sept. 30 end of the fiscal year. "We reject that idea. It won't work," the president declared after a meeting with military leaders at the Pentagon. Democratic officials, speaking privately, said Pelosi had agreed to allow the vote on the withdrawal measure in the hope that her rank-and-file would then unite behind the funding bill. But in an increasingly complex political environment, even that measure was deemed to be dead on arrival in the Senate, where Democrats hold a narrow advantage and the rules give Republicans leverage to block legislation. Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, D-Nev., has met privately in recent days with White House Chief of Staff Josh Bolten and Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., the beginning of talks aimed at producing a compromise funding bill that Bush would sign. In a speech in January, Bush listed several goals for the Iraqis, including legislation to share oil revenue among all Iraqis, spending $10 billion on job-creating reconstruction projects, holding provincial elections, overhauling de-Baathification laws and creating a fair process for considering amendments to the constitution. But in contrast to many lawmakers, the administration has not yet publicly accepted proposals to make future reconstruction funds conditional on Baghdad's progress in achieving the goals. Bush and the Democratic leaders were maneuvering in a complicated political environment. Republican lawmakers have grown increasingly restive about a war that they believe cost them their congressional majorities in last fall's elections. In a private meeting with Bush and several key administration officials at the White House, 11 moderate GOP lawmakers bluntly told Bush that the status quo was unsustainable and could mean further election losses next year. But Pelosi and Reid face obstacles of their own. They are determined to make sure that essential funding for the war is not cut off. At the same time, they are laboring to keep faith with their own rank-and-file, with the war-weary voters who installed them in power, and with MoveOn.org and other groups whose overriding goal is to force the withdrawal of the U.S. combat troops. MoveOn.org, in particular, has played a key behind-the-scenes role in the months since Congress convened under Democratic majorities. The group, which played a highly visible role in last year's election campaign, acquiesced in an early Democratic strategy of seeking approval for nonbinding measures to pressure Bush to change his plans. In recent weeks, that has changed. Fearing that Democrats ultimately will surrender and give Bush the money he wants, the organization sent Reid and Pelosi a letter saying that if Democrats "appear to capitulate to Bush on Iraq, MoveOn will move to a position of opposition." Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Passenger killed on Interstate 5 by loose truck wheels Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/national/7469057.html	Authorities investigate possible terror threat on U.S. interests in Germany | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | National & World News Authorities investigate possible terror threat on U.S. interests in Germany Story Published: May 11, 2007 at 3:42 PM PDT Story Updated: May 11, 2007 at 3:43 PM PDT By KATHERINE SHRADER Associated Press Writer WASHINGTON (AP) - U.S. and German agencies are investigating a potential plot against U.S. military bases, buildings and citizens in Germany, officials said Friday. Authorities had no indication of an imminent attack within Germany or the U.S., said FBI special agent Richard Kolko. "We remind the public to remain vigilant and report any suspicious activity to the appropriate law enforcement authorities," he said. The possible plot was first made public on April 20 when the U.S. Embassy in Berlin issued a warning, telling U.S. diplomatic and consular facilities in Germany to increase security and asking Americans there to increase their vigilance. Security outside U.S. bases in Germany was also increased. ism official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the concern - then and now - is that U.S. military bases, American tourists and other U.S. interests in Germany could be attacked. The official said information gathered on the suggested that the plot could involve bombs or small arms. The information was not specific about the potential attack's time or location, the official added. The official said counter ism authorities believed Islamic extremists were behind the planning, but the official had no reason to suspect al-Qaida specifically. Gordon Johndroe, a spokesman for the White House's National Security Council, said, "The United States is working with German authorities, as we do with our allies around the world, to counter any potential The Homeland Security Department sought to make clear there was no known plot inside U.S. borders. "There is no credible intelligence to suggest an imminent to the homeland at this time," said spokesman Russ Knocke. In Germany, the Interior Ministry said prosecutors had opened an investigation. Daniel Mattern, a spokesman for the U.S. Embassy in Berlin, said there had been no changes since it issued its April 20 warning for U.S. diplomatic and consular facilities. Associated Press writers David Rising in Berlin and Terence Hunt, Lara Jakes Jordan and Beverley Lumpkin in Washington contributed to this report. (Copyright 2007 by The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved.) Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Passenger killed on Interstate 5 by loose truck wheels Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/national/7468662.html	2 killed when small airplanes collide over Cincinnati suburb | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | National & World News 2 killed when small airplanes collide over Cincinnati suburb Story Published: May 11, 2007 at 3:25 PM PDT Story Updated: May 11, 2007 at 3:25 PM PDT SHARONVILLE, Ohio (AP) - Two small aircraft collided Friday over suburban Cincinnati, raining debris onto roads and backyards and killing two people on board, authorities said. The accident evidently involved two planes, the Federal Aviation Administration said in a recorded message. The agency initially said one of the aircraft might have been a helicopter. Witnesses gave conflicting accounts of the types of aircraft involved. The FAA had no information about the aircrafts' flight plans or why they were so close together. Blue Ash Airport, a runway used by small planes, is several miles away. No injuries were reported on the ground. Several roads were closed because of the debris. The planes' pilots were not required to file flight plans and apparently were not in contact with air traffic controllers, the FAA said. Resident Joe Muenks said wreckage from one of the planes fell in a yard about three blocks from his house. "It took out about a third of a tree," Muenks said. "The plane nose-dived ... The metal was so crunched together we could just see there was no way anyone who was in there could have survived." What remained of the other plane landed in a street less than a mile away, blocking the two-lane road with some debris ending up in a front yard. The aircraft narrowly missed a busy interstate, coming down on either side of it. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Passenger killed on Interstate 5 by loose truck wheels Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/national/7460487.html	Hundreds flee wildfire on resort island off California coast | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | National & World News Hundreds flee wildfire on resort island off California coast Story Published: May 11, 2007 at 7:32 AM PDT Story Updated: May 11, 2007 at 8:29 AM PDT AVALON, Calif. (AP) - Firefighters struggled early Friday to protect a resort island's main city from a wildfire that forced hundreds of residents to flee on ferries as ash rained down like snow. One home and a few small businesses in the canyons outside the city burned, but the weather helped firefighters keep most properties safe, Fire Chief Steven Hoefs said. Some 1,200 homes were under voluntary or mandatory evacuation orders. "The risk has been reduced significantly," Hoefs said. "Most of the structures have been protected." The blaze broke out Thursday afternoon and grew to 4,000 acres as it fed on dry brush, fanned by a steady wind into the night on the island about 30 miles off the Southern California mainland. The orange inferno loomed behind the quaint crescent harbor, landmark 1929 Catalina Casino and homes, restaurants and tiny hotels clinging to slopes above the waterfront. As flames threatened the city limits of Avalon, hundreds of people lined up at the harbor Thursday night to board ferries to the mainland. Many covered their faces with towels and bandanas as ashes fell. Resident Kathy Troeger fled with her three children and a friend's daughter, while her husband, a fire captain, stayed behind to fight the blaze. "It was like a nightmare when we left," she said after arriving at the mainland port of Long Beach. "You couldn't breathe, and ash was falling like snow." At least 160 firefighters, aided by four water-dropping helicopters and three retardant-dropping air tankers, battled flames through most of Thursday. The helicopters flew into the night and were expected to be back in the air at dawn Friday. Dozens of fire engines arrived through the night from as far away as Fresno, carried by giant military hovercraft from the Marine Corps' Camp Pendleton. Wind calmed during the night and the air grew moist, although the threat remained. About 175 homes and businesses lost electricity when power poles caught on fire. In Avalon, authorities used a bullhorn to urge people to evacuate and head to the beach. Visitors were directed to the historic art deco Casino until it lost power, while residents were sent to another harbor site. The Catalina Express ferry service added night departures of 400-passenger vessels. A family of eight said they had just enough time to pack some clothes and personal papers before fleeing. "I'm scared," said Angelica Romero, 30, holding her 7-month-old daughter. "But what's important is I have my children. The rest doesn't matter." About 85 people checked into an evacuation center set up at a high school, the Red Cross said. Despite being well offshore, Catalina has been left parched by the lack of rainfall that has made the rest of Southern California particularly susceptible to wildfires like the one in Los Angeles' Griffith Park this week. Firefighters were still working Friday to surround what remained of that fire, which briefly chased people from homes and threatened the park's landmark observatory and zoo. Officials had expected the blaze to be fully contained by Thursday, two days after it peaked, but fire crews were still building containment lines around the fire's perimeter late into the night, though no visible flames remained. Catalina has gotten only 2 inches of rain since January. A long, narrow island, Catalina covers 76 square miles and is served by helicopters and ferry boats from Los Angeles, Long Beach and other mainland harbors. Avalon has a population of 3,200 that swells to more than 10,000 on weekends and in summer, according to the Catalina Island Chamber of Commerce and Visitors Bureau. Most the island is owned by the Santa Catalina Island Conservancy and is home to various wildlife. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Passenger killed on Interstate 5 by loose truck wheels Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/national/7460372.html	Poll: Public gives both Congress, Bush low approval ratings | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | National & World News Poll: Public gives both Congress, Bush low approval ratings President Bush addresses the Republican National Committee Gala at the DC Armory Thursday, May 10, 2007 in Washington. Story Published: May 11, 2007 at 7:26 AM PDT Story Updated: May 11, 2007 at 7:26 AM PDT WASHINGTON (AP) - People think the Democratic-led Congress is doing just as dreary a job as President Bush, following four months of bitter political standoffs that have seen little progress on Iraq and a host of domestic issues. An AP-Ipsos poll also found that House Speaker Nancy Pelosi is a more popular figure than the president and her colleagues on Capitol Hill, though she faces a gender gap in which significantly more women than men support her. The survey found only 35 percent approve of how Congress is handling its job, down 5 percentage points in a month. That gives lawmakers the same bleak approval rating as Bush, who has been mired at about that level since last fall, including his dip to a record low for the AP-Ipsos poll of 32 percent last January. "It's mostly Iraq" plus a lack of progress in other areas, said Rep. Tom Cole, R-Okla., who heads the House GOP's campaign committee. "These are not good numbers for an incumbent, and it doesn't matter if you have an 'R' or a 'D' next to your name." Democrats agree that the problem is largely Iraq, which has dominated this year's session of Congress while producing little more than this month's Bush veto of a bill requiring the withdrawal of U.S. troops. It has also overshadowed House-passed bills on stem cell research, student loans and other subjects that the White House opposes, they say. "People are unhappy, there hasn't been a lot of change in direction, for example in Iraq," said Rep. Chris Van Hollen, D-Md., chairman of House Democrats' campaign effort. Rising gasoline prices could also be a factor, lawmakers said. In another measure of popular discontent, the survey found that 71 percent say the country is on the wrong track - about even with the 73 percent who said so last May, the worst level since the AP-Ipsos poll began in December 2003. The survey was taken Monday through Wednesday, before Bush offered to seek compromise with congressional Democrats over a war spending bill setting benchmarks for progress in Iraq. Bush told reporters Thursday that if pollsters had asked his opinion about Iraq last fall, "I'd have said I disapprove of what was going on in Iraq. They could have put me down as part of the disapproval process." That was before his decision to send nearly 30,000 additional troops to Iraq, which "would more likely cause me to approve of what's going on in Iraq," he added. Overall approval of Bush was steady from last month, but fell to 69 percent among Republicans, about 7 percentage points below where it had been in April. Earlier this week, a group of GOP moderate House members warned Bush that the status quo in Iraq could mean Republican election losses next year. "If the war doesn't begin to turn around, Republicans will have problems," said Rep. Peter King, R-N.Y., who said he supports Bush's Iraq policy. White House spokesman Tony Snow declined to comment on the poll. Congress' approval rating this week was 10 points higher than a year ago, when Republicans were in control. But after bumping up in April, this month's drop left lawmakers' job approval where it was when the year began. April saw Congress defy Bush and send him a bill financing the war and requiring a troop withdrawal, which he vetoed May 1. "People wanted change in Washington" on many issues, not just Iraq, said Rep. Rahm Emanuel, D-Ill., a member of the House Democratic leadership. "I'm not surprised about where people are. They're hearing only about Iraq." Congress' reduced appeal was evident in several categories of people. Only 48 percent of Democrats said they approved of Congress, down from 55 percent last month. That included a 12 percentage point drop among Democratic women, though support from Democratic men remained steady. Approval by minorities also fell a dozen points to 39 percent, with a similar reduction among people whose family incomes exceed $75,000. By region, the steepest drop was in the Midwest, where approval fell by 10 percentage points to 28 percent. Congress' highest approval was in the Northeast, where four in ten gave it a positive rating. As for Pelosi, D-Calif., her overall approval of 45 percent stood 10 points higher than Bush's and Congress'. She was seen favorably by 52 percent of women, but only 39 percent of men. While whites are closely split about her, minorities approve of her job by a 15-point margin. Pelosi's numbers are about where she was last month but slightly lower than in January. In the last month, she has lost significant support from younger voters, college-educated women and Westerners. "Voters are frustrated by the fact that the president refuses to change direction on Iraq," said Pelosi spokesman Brendan Daly. Bush's approval ratings are lowest for his handling of Iraq and domestic issues including health care, with about one-third seeing him favorably. About four in 10 like the job he is doing on the economy and foreign policy. Men give the president higher grades than women do, whites higher than minorities, and married people higher than singles. The AP-Ipsos survey involved telephone interviews with 1,000 adults. It has a margin of sampling error of plus or minus 3 percentage points. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Passenger killed on Interstate 5 by loose truck wheels Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/national/7460417.html	Parents drop Katrina as baby name because of hurricane | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | National & World News Parents drop Katrina as baby name because of hurricane Story Published: May 11, 2007 at 7:28 AM PDT Story Updated: May 11, 2007 at 7:28 AM PDT WASHINGTON (AP) - As baby names go, Katrina isn't in vogue these days. But she isn't persona non grata, either. From its peak in the 1980s - when it regularly ranked among the 100 most popular names that parents chose for their daughters - it had gradually slumped to 247th by 2005, even before Hurricane Katrina smashed the Gulf Coast in late summer of that year. The name's association with the catastrophe has now knocked it out of consideration for most parents, sinking its popularity to the lowest ebb since the 1950s. Only about 850 baby girls in the United States were named Katrina last year, according to new data released Friday by the Social Security Administration, dropping it more than 100 slots on the popularity list. At a rank of 382nd, it now sits just below Brenna. Ironically, the two states that suffered most of Katrina's wrath bucked the trend, if only in small numbers. In Louisiana, the number of babies named Katrina jumped from eight in the 12 months before the storm to 15 in the 12 months after, according to state health officials. In Mississippi, seven babies were given the name from 2004 until the storm hit in August 2005, according to state data. The number climbed to 24 from September 2005 through the end of 2006. The national trend surprised Cleveland Evans, a psychology professor and names expert at Bellevue University in Nebraska. Usually, he said, publicity around a name - positive or negative - will cause it to spike. After Hurricane Camille devastated the Gulf Coast in 1969, for example, the name Camille quickly became more popular, he said. "So many parents are looking for a new, unusual name, there are always a few of them who are going to take it from any cultural event," said Evans, the past president of the American Name Society. "There must be some sort of (negative) threshold and Katrina must have crossed it." Still, he said Katrina isn't likely to go extinct. "This is not going to be a name like Adolf that's going to disappear and be unusable ever again," he said, referring to that name's association with Adolf Hitler. "Even though it will be associated with this disaster I think there are enough other associations that it will continue to be a popular name." That was the case with Scarlett and Stephen Billis, a Los Angeles-area couple who named their daughter Katrina last May. Scarlett Billis said they were reluctant to use the name less than a year after the hurricane, but her husband had always liked it as a variation of Katherine, a family name. Also, their family is Greek and the name is close to the popular Greek name Katerina. "People ask if we named her after the hurricane," Billis said. "We didn't pick it because of that and we were actually hesitant ... but we do joke that our house looks like a hurricane hit." Overall, the country's most popular names list hasn't changed much since 2005. Emily and Jacob remain atop the list. Emily has been the top girls' name since 1996; Jacob for boys since 1999. Sophia cracked the top 10 list for the first time, and William returned after dropping off in 2005. Coming in last in the agency's rankings, which only go up to 1,000, were Jarvis and Flor. The rankings, which the Social Security Administration releases each year just before Mother's Day, which is Sunday, are based on some 4.2 million Social Security card applications from 2006. The agency counts all spelling variations differently, so some names with alternate spellings - like Ashley and Ashlee - are more popular than the rankings indicate. Generally, Evans said, naming customs in the U.S. have grown increasingly decentralized, with far more variety in the past. That explains how traditional names like John and Mary have been replaced by upstarts like Ethan and Emma on the most popular list. "There are so many young parents who don't want to give their children one of the most popular names," he said. "It's much more spread out now, and one reason is that this information is now so readily available. "I know a lot of people of my generation who named their children Ashley or Jessica and who said they would have never named their children that if they had known they were so popular. Well today, you don't really have that excuse." Social Security began compiling the name lists in 1997. The agency offers lists of baby names for each year since 1880 on its Web site: http://www.socialsecurity.gov Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Passenger killed on Interstate 5 by loose truck wheels Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/national	KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | National & World News Top National & World News Story Authorities investigate possible terror threat on U.S. interests in Germany Authorities had no indication of an imminent attack within Germany or the U.S., said FBI special agent Richard Kolko. "We remind the public to remain vigilant and report any suspicious activity to the appropriate law enforcement authorities," he said. 2 killed when small airplanes collide over Cincinnati suburb Two small aircraft collided Friday over suburban Cincinnati, raining debris onto roads and backyards and killing two people on board, authorities said. Blue Angels regroup for N.C. show, first since fatal crash For Blue Angels pilots, whose demeanor is a key part of the job, the tragedy offers another opportunity to perform the mission they were first given six decades ago: promote the U.S. Navy and U.S. Marines Corps to the world. National & World News Headlines Hundreds flee wildfire on resort island off California coast Parents drop Katrina as baby name because of hurricane Poll: Public gives both Congress, Bush low approval ratings Koreas adopt agreement enabling historic train crossing of their border Runaway trailer starts deadly crash on Chesapeake Bay bridge House rejects 9-month withdrawal for troops, agrees to guarantee funds only through July Prime Minister Tony Blair says he will resign in June Wildfire threatens Calif. resort city Prosecutors to seek death penalty in wildfire that killed 5 firefighters French president-elect defends luxury yacht trip Wildfires, floods, tropical weather make life miserable across nation Moderates in Congress labor to break Iraq funding impasse British police make 4 arrests related to 2005 suicide bombings in London Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Store clerk's tip was key to foiling Fort Dix terror plot Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest Experts forecast 2007 hurricane season to be more active than usual FBI: Mobsters competed for credit for hit on social club bandits Gunmen seize 4 U.S. workers in Nigeria amid escalating violence in oil region Tennessee executes inmate convicted of killing police officer Cheney makes unannounced visit to Iraq Six killed when train slams into SUV Archaeologists find tomb of King Herod Navy helicopter crash kills 5 on training flight at base in Nevada Queen Elizabeth concludes 6-day visit to U.S. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Passenger killed on Interstate 5 by loose truck wheels Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/national/7460302.html	Runaway trailer starts deadly crash on Chesapeake Bay bridge | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | National & World News Runaway trailer starts deadly crash on Chesapeake Bay bridge Story Published: May 11, 2007 at 7:20 AM PDT Story Updated: May 11, 2007 at 7:20 AM PDT ANNAPOLIS, Md. (AP) - A runaway trailer started a chain-reaction crash on the Chesapeake Bay bridge, killing three people and injuring five others as dozens of vehicles swerved to avoid it, authorities said. As crumpled trucks were hauled away Thursday evening, structural engineers examined the bridge by boat, air and foot and it was found to be structurally sound and safe, said Marcus Brown, chief of the Maryland Transportation Authority Police. Friday morning, all lanes were open again. The bridge, officially known as the William Preston Lane Jr. Memorial Bridge, is the main artery connecting Maryland's Eastern Shore with the rest of the state. With the westbound lanes closed all night, stores on the eastern side were busy. "They can't get across the bridge to go home so they're just hanging out until the bridge opens up. It's good for business, but it's not good for me here all alone," said Melodie Shreve, who was working by herself at the Shore Stop in Stevensville. The Best Western in Grasonville, a few miles from the bridge, sold out by 8 p.m. Melissa Hess, the front desk supervisor, said some guests who had suites even gave up their second room to help stranded motorists. The crash started when a small flatbed trailer being pulled by an SUV came unattached shortly after 4 p.m. at the start of the bridge's westbound span. In all, seven vehicles crashed, including a tanker hauling animal fat and a tow truck. "Other vehicles that were following swerved to avoid a trailer and that's what started this collision," said police Cpl. Jonathan Green. He described it as an "unbelievable crash scene" with vehicles pinned against each other and the railings, but said none went off the bridge. Brown said it was too early in the investigation to say whether charges would be filed. One person was flown to the University of Maryland Shock Trauma Center with life-threatening injuries; four others had less serious injuries, Brown said. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Passenger killed on Interstate 5 by loose truck wheels Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/national/7439811.html	Prime Minister Tony Blair says he will resign in June | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | National & World News Prime Minister Tony Blair says he will resign in June Story Published: May 10, 2007 at 7:34 AM PDT Story Updated: May 10, 2007 at 7:34 AM PDT TRIMDON, England (AP) - Tony Blair said Thursday he would step down as prime minister on June 27, closing a decade of power in which he fostered peace in Northern Ireland and followed the United States to a war in Iraq that cost him much of his popularity. In a somber farewell, Blair made way for Treasury chief Gordon Brown to take the top post. The British leader looked overcome with emotion, struggling to retain his trademark broad grin as loud cheers rang out. Following the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks in the United States, it was right, Blair said, to "stand shoulder to shoulder with our oldest ally, and I did so out of belief." "Hand on heart, I did what I thought was right," Blair told party workers and supporters at Trimdon Labour Club in his Sedgefield constituency in northern England. "I may have been wrong, but that's your call. But believe one thing if nothing else. I did what I thought was right for our country." Brown, Blair's dour partner in reforming the Labour Party and a sometimes impatient rival in government, was expected to easily win election as the party's new leader and become the next prime minister. Brown has never criticized Blair's decision to go to war in Iraq and has given no indication on how he will steer Britain's role in the conflict. Blair, 54, has stopped just short of openly endorsing Brown, a stern Scot who lacks his charisma and common touch. The two men stuck together during the 2005 election campaign, at one point famously facing the cameras and eating ice cream. The camaraderie sometimes seemed forced, though they rarely disagreed in public on the issues. On one occasion as he sat beside Blair during that campaign, Brown was asked whether he would have done the same as the prime minister over Iraq. There was a long pause before Brown said: "Yes." The government has declared its hopes of withdrawing from front-line operations this year - a move certain to please a public anxious to see an end to the conflict. In London, Laura Phillips, 21, a banker, reflected the anti-war mood. "I'll fight for him if he gets our troops out of Iraq," she said. Blair embraced dozens of local Labour activists as he arrived to greet around 250 supporters packed into the former mining village's Labour clubhouse. Some chanted "four more years," but were chided by the leader as he began his speech. "That's not on message for today," Blair joked. For his long-expected announcement, Blair returned to the district where he won election to Parliament in 1983, and where he announced in 1994 that he was a candidate for Labour Party leader. Blair's announcement came days after he celebrated the 10th anniversary of Labour's landslide election victory of May 1, 1997. Since then, he has been one of the most praised, and reviled, leaders in British history - the man who transformed the Labour Party, helped end Northern Ireland's troubles but angered many of his supporters by committing Britain to a bloody, unpopular war in Iraq. When he was elected at 43 in 1997, Blair was the youngest prime minister of the 20th century - the first born after World War II and the only one to have played in a college rock band, Ugly Rumours. He transformed Labour from an old-style social-democratic party to centrist "New Labour" and led it to three consecutive election victories. Under the stewardship of Blair and Brown, the British economy has thrived. London rivals New York as the world's pre-eminent financial center, GDP is up, unemployment is down and interest rates are low, though rising. However, Blair's promised health and education reforms remain incomplete, and soaring house prices and increasing personal debt threaten to widen the divide between haves and have-nots. Nonetheless, his supporters say Blair will be remembered for helping the poor. "It's a nostalgic day but we're here to celebrate of all of Tony Blair's achievements, he's done so much to help the people of this country, and so much to lift people out of poverty," said Maureen Lenehan, an official at the Trimdon Labour Club. Blair announced his departure date two days after the formation of Northern Ireland's full power-sharing administration, a goal he spent much of his premiership striving to achieve. But despite his accomplishments, Blair's legacy looks to be dominated by Iraq. His decision to stand should-to-shoulder with President Bush by committing troops for the invasion divided his party and the country. Blair said he was content for history to judge him, but four years on and with almost 150 British troops dead in Iraq, the war is more unpopular than ever. His last months in office also have been overshadowed by a police investigation into claims that his party and the opposition traded political honors for cash. Senior Blair aide Ruth Turner, Blair's chief fundraiser Lord Levy and two others have been arrested during the police inquiry into claims that seats in the House of Lords and other honors were awarded in exchange for party donations. Prosecutors are considering whether anyone should be charged. Blair was questioned twice by police as a witness, but is not considered a suspect. In recent months, Blair's thoughts have turned to the lessons of his decade in power. "When I first started in politics, I wanted to please everyone," Blair said during a tour of the Middle East in December. "After a time I learned that you can't please everyone, and you learn that the best thing is to do what you think is right and everyone can make their judgment." Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Passenger killed on Interstate 5 by loose truck wheels Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/national/7465547.html	Blue Angels regroup for N.C. show, first since fatal crash | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | National & World News Blue Angels regroup for N.C. show, first since fatal crash The Blue Angels practice maneuvers at Seymour Johnson Air Force Base in Goldsboro, N.C., Thursday, May 10, 2007. Story Published: May 11, 2007 at 12:51 PM PDT Story Updated: May 11, 2007 at 12:51 PM PDT SEYMOUR JOHNSON AIR FORCE BASE, N.C. (AP) - After 21 years as a U.S. Navy pilot, his career boasting nearly 900 aircraft carrier landings and air combat during the first Gulf War, tragedy comes as no surprise to Cmdr. Kevin Mannix. That includes last month's fatal crash of a fellow Blue Angels pilot during a show in South Carolina. But for Blue Angels pilots, whose demeanor is a key part of the job, the tragedy offers another opportunity to perform the mission they were first given six decades ago: promote the U.S. Navy and U.S. Marines Corps to the world. "Our ability to bounce back and do our mission is the same as every other squadron in the U.S. Navy or U.S. Marine Corps," said Mannix, minutes after practicing Thursday at Seymour Johnson Air Force Base in Goldsboro, where the team on Saturday will perform its first show since the crash April 21. "The only difference is there's a lot more visibility on us because we are in the public eye. That's our job and that's what we do. I think a lot more media was focused our way on this specific mishap." Lt. Cmdr. Kevin Davis, 32, died when his No. 6 jet went down during the final minutes of a performance at the Marine Corps Air Station Beaufort in Beaufort, S.C. The Pittsfield, Mass., native was in his first year flying in formation with the team. An investigation into the cause of the crash, the Blue Angels' first since 1999 and the 26th fatality in the team's 60-year history, could take several months, according to the Navy. The Blue Angels typically fly their F/A-18A Hornets six days a week, but they stayed on the ground for nine days after the crash, canceling performances May 5 and May 6 at Offutt Air Force Base in Nebraska. Saturday's show will feature only five jets. Lt. Cmdr. Craig Olson, 37, of Kirkland, Wash., replaced Davis a couple of weeks ago. Olson, who flew with the Blue Angels from 2003-2005, will practice with the team for a few more weeks before flying in a show, Mannix said. Mannix said there was a lot of anxiety among the pilots before they flew for the first time after the crash. "We lost a brother, a great friend, a great American, actually," Lt. Cmdr. John Allison, who flies the No. 5 jet, told reporters Thursday after practice. "But we're trying to move forward and think about flying, you know, think about our jobs." During Thursday's practice, the team flew in its traditional delta formation, the triangle lineup they were in when Davis crashed. Olson practiced as one of two solo members, hitting mach speeds and performing head-on near misses with Allison. Each year, the Navy considers up to about 70 pilots for the squadron. The final six pilots train constantly between January and March at El Centro Naval Air Facility, Calif., and are stationed at Pensacola Naval Air Station in Florida. The team is scheduled to fly 66 air shows this year at 35 locations across the country, including Seattle. The Blue Angels fly without the traditional G-suits, which most jet pilots wear to avoid blacking out during maneuvers that exert strong gravitational forces. The suits inflate and deflate air bladders around the lower body to keep blood in the brain and heart. The air bladders can cause a pilot to bump the control stick, so the Blue Angels learn to manage the G-forces by tensing their abdominal muscles. After a fatal crash, one of the best responses is to get back into the cockpit, team members said, and grace the skies with twirls, climbs, dives and near misses at around 350 mph and only inches apart. "It feels good for the team to go back and do it," Mannix said Thursday, "including myself all the way down to the maintainers to do what we do for the American public, to get out there and show them we are resilient in what we do." Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Passenger killed on Interstate 5 by loose truck wheels Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/national/7460322.html	Koreas adopt agreement enabling historic train crossing of their border | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | National & World News Koreas adopt agreement enabling historic train crossing of their border South Korean tourists watch a train running on the rail, which two Koreas hope to reconnect as part of an agreement reached at a summit in 2000. Story Published: May 11, 2007 at 7:22 AM PDT Story Updated: May 11, 2007 at 7:22 AM PDT SEOUL, South Korea (AP) - North and South Korea adopted a military agreement Friday enabling the first train crossing of their heavily armed border in more than half a century, the South's Defense Ministry said. The rail test, planned for Thursday, would be the first time trains have crossed the tightly sealed border since inter-Korean rail links were severed in the middle of the 1950-53 Korean War. Two tracks have been reconnected as part of a series of reconciliation projects launched since the two sides held the first-ever summit of their leaders in 2000. The test would be just a single run of trains along the restored tracks on each side of the peninsula, with regular train service between the two sides unlikely to begin anytime soon. The two Koreas had agreed in principle on security for the rail test earlier this week, but the adoption of a formal agreement came only after more than 30 hours of extended talks that stretched into Friday due to unspecified sticking points. South Korea hopes the inter-Korean railways could ultimately be linked to Russia's Trans-Siberian railroad, and could allow an overland route connecting the peninsula to Europe - significantly cutting delivery times for freight that now requires sea transport. Economic officials from both sides agreed last month to conduct the train run, but North Korea's military had the final say on whether it goes forward because such a border crossing requires security arrangements. The security accord sets out protocols for the train crossings next week, including what areas of the border should open and for how long, as well as pledges from each side to guarantee travelers' safety. South Korea had hoped to expand the agreement to cover similar future border crossings, but the North refused. The two sides also agreed in principle to set up a joint fishing area around their disputed western sea border and continue talks on that issue and other measures aimed at preventing accidental clashes in the area, according to a joint statement summarizing the negotiations' outcome. North Korea doesn't recognize the current sea border demarcated by the United Nations at the end of the 1950-53 Korean War, and has long claimed it should be further south. The waters around the border are rich fishing grounds and boats from the two Koreas routinely jostle for position during the May-June crab-catching season. In 1999 and 2002, their navies fought deadly skirmishes, killing several sailors and sinking six ships. The two sides agreed to hold the next general-level talks in July and continue discussions to set up a defense ministers' meeting, the joint statement said. This week's talks were the first high-level military contacts between the two sides in a year. The two Koreas remain technically at war because the Korean War ended in a cease-fire that has never been replaced with a peace treaty. Ties between the two sides have warmed significantly since the 2000 summit, although they suffered during the international standoff over North Korea's nuclear ambitions. Pyongyang conducted its first-ever nuclear test in October, chilling relations with the South. But the South began reaching out again to the North after Pyongyang agreed in February to shut down its nuclear reactor under an agreement with the United States and four other neighboring countries. Still, the communist regime missed an April deadline to close the reactor because of a separate financial dispute with the United States, and it is unclear when it will close down the facility. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Passenger killed on Interstate 5 by loose truck wheels Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
