http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/M/MILITARY_SECRETS_CHINA?SITE=NJMOR&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	Daily Record - Nation & World Subscribe to our Daily Report newsletter May 11, 7:24 AM EDT Engineer Guilty in Military Secrets Case Search the DOD Surplus Database GAO Report on Military Recruiting Army Tries Incentives to Keep Officers Pentagon to Fortify Force in Afghanistan Security at Bases at 2nd-Lowest Level U.S. Commander Laments Civilian Killings Soldiers Face Punishment Over Blogs China Names Special Envoy for Darfur China to Start Mobile Food Testing Japan Rules Against War Claims China: Pig Disease Could Spread China Zeroes in on Food and Drug Safety Buy AP Photo Reprints SANTA ANA, Calif. (AP) -- After a six-week trial, a federal jury convicted a Chinese-born engineer of conspiring to export U.S. defense technology to China, including data on an electronic propulsion system that could make submarines virtually undetectable. Friends and colleagues knew Chi Mak as an unassuming, brilliant man who worked 12-hour days as an engineer for a defense contractor, rarely went out and scrimped to pay off his 700-square-foot suburban home. Federal prosecutors portrayed Mak as a polished agent for the Chinese who used his low-key lifestyle and good reputation as a cover for his real work - conspiring to pass U.S. secrets for more than two decades. The jury sided with the government, also finding Mak guilty of acting as an unregistered foreign agent, attempting to violate export control laws and making false statements to the FBI. Prosecutors had dropped a charge of the actual export of defense articles. Mak stared straight ahead and seemed to hold back tears as the verdict was read. One of his attorneys gently rubbed his back. Assistant U.S. Attorney Greg Staples said Mak faces up to 45 years in prison when he is sentenced Sept. 10. "We were confident from the start and we're very happy with the verdict," Staples said. The government accused Mak, a naturalized U.S. citizen, of taking thousands of pages of documents from his defense contractor employer, Power Paragon of Anaheim, and giving them to his brother, who passed them along to Chinese authorities over a number of years. Mak was arrested in 2005 in Los Angeles after FBI agents stopped his brother and sister-in-law as they boarded a flight to Hong Kong. Investigators said they found three encrypted CDs in their luggage that contained documents on a submarine propulsion system, a solid-state power switch for ships and a Power Point presentation on the future of power electronics. Mak acknowledged during the trial that he copied classified documents from his employer and kept copies in his office. He maintained he didn't realize that making the copies was illegal. Chi Mak's wife, brother and other relatives also have been indicted and go on trial together on June 5. Staples said the government may use the verdict to try to negotiate plea bargains with Mak's indicted family members, who pleaded not guilty. Defense attorneys Marilyn Bednarski and Ronald Kaye said they would appeal the verdict, insisting the government had manipulated the facts. In many instances, the government was allowed to present classified information to U.S. District Judge Cormac Carney in his chambers, and the defense team was not allowed to view the government's application for a warrant to bug Mak's house and car, Kaye said. "It is so absurd to believe that he has been passing technology for 20 years when they had not one witness and not one piece of paper to corroborate this," Kaye said. The trial featured testimony from FBI agents, U.S. Navy officials, encryption and espionage experts and the engineer himself. Key to the trial was the government's allegation that Mak confessed to the conspiracy - and even named his so-called "handler" and specific restricted documents - during an untaped jailhouse interview two days after his arrest. Mak testified he never confessed during that interview, but admitted on cross-examination that he lied repeatedly in an earlier taped interview about the number of times he had visited China and when he told authorities he didn't have friends or relatives there. He said he felt intimidated during the interrogation. "This is why I lied," he said. "They were pushing me that night." Mak's attorneys focused on a paper he had written on the propulsion system that was found in his brother's luggage at Los Angeles International Airport. Mak said he believed he was doing nothing wrong by giving the paper to his brother to take out of the country because he had written it for Power Paragon and had presented it at an engineering conference in 2004. The government, however, alleged the documents were export-controlled and couldn't fall into foreigners' hands. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint.
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/V/VIRGINIA_TECH_GRADUATION?SITE=NJMOR&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	Daily Record - Nation & World Subscribe to our Daily Report newsletter May 11, 6:16 PM EDT Va. Tech Graduations Honor Slain Victims Virginia Tech Prepares for Commencement Dan O'Neil Memorial Concert Buy AP Photo Reprints Virginia Tech Shooting Coverage Students Return to Classes Slain Singer Honored With Concert Virginia Tech: A Self-Portrait Portraits of the Victims Timeline of Seung-Hui Cho's Life The Victims: A Family Mourns The Victims: Holocaust Survivor Saves Students Memorials: Field of Grief Search Warrants for Cho's Computer, Phone and Medical Records (ABC News) Cho's Mental Health Records Objects Seized from Cho's Room Va. Tech Graduations Honor Slain Victims Va. Tech Review Panel Holds 1st Meeting Gen. Abizaid to Give Va. Tech Speech URL Buyers Hope to Cash in on Tragedy Va. Tech Seniors Prepare for Transition Va. Tech to Honor Victims at Graduation Cho Didn't Get Court-Ordered Treatment Bomb Warning Found Before Tech Shooting Opinions Vary on Fate of Va. Tech Hall Va. Tech Fields Merchandise Requests BLACKSBURG, Va. (AP) -- Thousands of Virginia Tech graduates struggled to balance joy with grief as commencement ceremonies got under way Friday, less than a month after a student gunman's rampage devastated the campus. In an address to about 600 of the nearly 1,200 graduate students who received master's degrees, President Charles Steger spoke to the community's grief while encouraging the graduates to be proud of their accomplishments and hopeful for their futures. "Our hearts are saddened and our minds are troubled," Steger said. A larger ceremony for some 3,600 graduating seniors was set for Friday evening, where the school planned to issue class rings to relatives of the 26 slain students, followed by diplomas in smaller ceremonies Saturday. "Short was their stay on this mortal stage. Great was their impact," Steger said of the slain students. Gunman Seung-Hui Cho also killed five faculty members and himself. His family will not receive a ring or diploma. During the graduate ceremonies, nine slain graduate students were awarded posthumous master's degrees or doctorates. Faculty members hugged the relatives who received them, some wiping away tears and all drawing long and loud applause from the crowd of several thousand. Graduate Scott Cassell, 55, of Roanoke, hadn't planned to attend the commencement ceremonies. But after the attacks, the father of five decided he would go as a show of support for the grieving families. "I just can't fathom the loss," said Cassell, who received a master's degree in information technology. Security employees checked the bags of guests, armed police officers patrolled the grounds and state troopers stood guard at every entrance. Guests did not have to pass through metal detectors, though, and school officials said the level of security was comparable to what they would see at a home football game. James Long, whose sister, Michelle, earned a degree in history, said students would not let the tragedy overshadow their celebration. "There are too many people here to celebrate five, six years of hard work to let one guy screw that up," said Long, 25, of Richmond. Some families couldn't bear to attend graduation. Others said they had no choice but to come. "We have to. This is right for us," said Peter Read, whose freshman daughter Mary Karen Read was among those killed. Peter and Cathy Read returned to campus for more than their daughter's degree. They also returned to erase an unsettling image from the minds of their two youngest sons, Patrick, 4, and Brendan, 2. "They're a little concerned that the bad man's going to shoot them," Cathy Read said. "We can't let that idea grow in their heads." In Washington, President Bush issued a statement praising "the compassion and resilient spirit" of the Virginia Tech community and the 3,600 graduating seniors and others earning advanced or associate degrees. "Laura and I salute the Virginia Tech Class of 2007. We also remember the students and teachers whose lives were taken last month," he said. "They will always hold a special place in the hearts of this graduating class and an entire nation." Twins Andrea and Michelle Falletti of Chantilly, Va., said the shootings will not be what they remember when they look back on four years of college. Rather, they will recall spring breaks, camping trips and partying with friends. "Obviously, what has happened has affected everything in our lives, and it will affect graduation," said Andrea Falletti, 21. "In a way, it's not going to be celebrating us as much; it's more about what we've done as a community. But that's OK. I'm proud of what we've done here." Associated Press writers Sue Lindsey and Vicki Smith contributed to this report. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint.
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/F/FORT_DIX_PLOT?SITE=NJMOR&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	Daily Record - Nation & World Subscribe to our Daily Report newsletter May 11, 4:21 PM EDT Fort Dix Suspects All Are Denied Bail Buy AP Photo Reprints Criminal complaint against Eljvir Duka in Fort Dix plot case Hearing Transcript: Waleed Mohammed bin Attash Hearing Transcript: Khalid Sheikh Mohammed Hearing Transcript Abu Faraj al-Libi Hearing Transcript: Ramzi Binalshibh Declassified Report: Iraq 'Cause Celebre' for Extremists U.S. Pushing Europe for Flight Data Deal Bush's Privacy Board Not Doing Its Job? British Police Make 4 Terror Arrests Doctor in Terror Trial Defends Himself Dix Plot Shows Homegrown Radical Threat CAMDEN, N.J. (AP) -- Six Muslim men suspected of plotting to massacre U.S. soldiers at Fort Dix were ordered held without bail Friday. Prosecutors argued that the men, all born outside the United States, pose a flight risk. They are being held at a federal detention center in Philadelphia. The men were arrested Monday during what the FBI said was an attempt to buy AK-47 machine guns, M-16s and other weapons. They targeted Fort Dix, a post 25 miles east of Philadelphia that is used primarily to train reservists, partly because one of them had delivered pizzas there and was familiar with the base, according to court filings. Their objective was to kill "as many American soldiers as possible," the documents said. The men have lived in and around Philadelphia for years, worshipped at moderate mosques and worked blue-collar jobs installing roofs, driving a cab, delivering pizzas and baking bread. Four are ethnic Albanians from the former Yugoslavia, one is from Jordan and one is from Turkey. As they were led into the courtroom, each of the suspects smiled to relatives and friends, many of whom wept and blew kisses to them. Only one of the men, Mohamad Ibrahim Shnewer, 22, asked to be released on bail, and friends and relatives offered to post properties they owned as collateral. Assistant U.S. Attorney Stephen Stigall argued against letting Shnewer be released to the custody of his parents while awaiting trial. He said many of the illegal actions that the government alleges Shnewer committed happened or were planned at his parents' house. Defense lawyers for some of the men said they are considering attacking the prosecution's reliance on two paid informants who infiltrated the group more than a year ago and recorded conversations with the defendants. Authorities said they first learned about the men in January 2006 after a tip from a clerk at a Mount Laurel electronics store. Circuit City spokeswoman Jackie Foreman said Friday that credit for the tip is shared by two employees. She declined to name them but said the company has "communicated its appreciation." She declined to give details. The pair called police because a home video the men wanted transferred to a DVD looked like it might have terrorist links, U.S. Attorney Christopher J. Christie said. Earlier this year, authorities said, the men took a training trip to the Pocono Mountains in Pennsylvania, where they fired weapons and played paintball to prepare for an attack. Five of the men - Shnewer; Serdar Tatar, 23; Dritan "Anthony" or "Tony" Duka, 28; Shain Duka, 26; and Eljvir "Elvis" Duka, 23 - are charged with conspiring to kill uniformed military personnel, an offense punishable by life in prison. Agron Abdullahu, 24, is charged with helping illegal immigrants obtain weapons. He could face 10 years in prison if convicted. Abdullahu, who faces the least serious charges of the six, will have another bail hearing next Thursday. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint.
http://hosted.ap.org/	News from The Associated Press
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/S/SHOCK_JOCKS_SEX_COMMENT?SITE=NJMOR&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	Daily Record - Nation & World Subscribe to our Daily Report newsletter May 11, 5:05 PM EDT XM Shock Jocks Apologize for Sex Comment Buy AP Photo Reprints WASHINGTON (AP) -- XM Satellite Radio shock jocks Opie and Anthony apologized Friday for airing a homeless man's crude comments that he'd like to have sex with Condoleezza Rice, Laura Bush and Queen Elizabeth. The remarks were made on their show Wednesday by a guest the duo call Homeless Charlie. As the name of each woman came up, the guest said he would like to have sex with her - using language not fit for print. Opie and Anthony laughed as they imagined Rice's "horror" while describing a violent sexual encounter in which Rice is punched in the face. Washington-based XM condemned the remarks. "We deplore the comments made on Wednesday's 'Opie & Anthony Show,'" XM spokesman Nathaniel Brown told The Associated Press on Friday. He would not say whether XM planned to take disciplinary action. Opie and Anthony, whose full names are Anthony Cumia and Greg "Opie" Hughes, apologized to listeners on Friday's show. "We apologize to the public officials for comments that we made on our XM show on May 9th. We take very seriously the responsibility that comes with our creative freedom and regret any offense that this segment has caused," they said. Because the show airs on satellite radio, there are no federal restrictions on its content. According to XM's Web site, the radio service has parental controls that allow users to block access to channels that frequently contain explicit language. Those channels are designated with an "XL" notation. The same radio duo was dumped by CBS Radio in August 2002 for running a contest in which they said two listeners had sex in New York's St. Patrick's Cathedral. They were hired by XM in 2004. The remarks could become an issue as XM seeks approval from the Federal Communications Commission to merge with New York-based Sirius Satellite Radio, said Tom Taylor, editor of the trade magazine Inside Radio. "XM and Sirius don't want any regulation," he said in Friday's New York Daily News. "But it's come up in four congressional hearings - and at this point, the merger is such a close call, any issue could become important." The FCC did not return phone calls Friday seeking comment. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint.
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/S/SCHOOL_EVACUATION?SITE=NJMOR&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	Daily Record - Nation & World Subscribe to our Daily Report newsletter May 11, 5:13 PM EDT Md. School Evacuated Over Odd Bottle Buy AP Photo Reprints TIMONIUM, Md. (AP) -- A high school was evacuated Friday after firefighters found a bottle containing a suspicious liquid in a classroom, and a teacher was taken to a hospital for dizziness. A student was arrested hours later. Police aren't releasing the 18-year-old man's name until formal charges are drawn up, Baltimore County police spokesman Bill Toohey said. The bottle found in a trash can smelled like chlorine but the investigation was still continuing into whether it was intended to be an incendiary device, Toohey said. "It was a bottle that contained a toxic substance," Toohey said. Police said the affected area involved a chemistry lab, a bathroom and a hallway at Dulaney High School in a suburb of Baltimore. The ill teacher was taken to a local hospital, Sgt. John Young of the Baltimore County Police Department said. No other injuries were reported. The fire department's hazardous materials team and members of the county police bomb squad were on the scene as a precaution, Jones said. The incident was reported just before 8 a.m., Young said. The school's 1,850 students were allowed to return to the building around 11 a.m. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint.
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/S/SUSPICIOUS_DEVICES?SITE=NJMOR&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	Daily Record - Nation & World Subscribe to our Daily Report newsletter May 11, 4:28 PM EDT Men Apologize for Boston Cartoon Stunt Buy AP Photo Reprints When Guerrilla Marketing Goes Awry BOSTON (AP) -- Prosecutors said they would not pursue charges against two men who planted electronic devices around the city as part of a botched advertising campaign after the pair apologized Friday for causing a bomb scare. Peter Berdovsky, 27, and Sean Stevens, 28, also performed community service at a rehabilitation center in a deal with prosecutors. In contrast to their first court appearance in January, when they mugged for the camera and waved to friends in the courtroom, the men offered contrite apologies and said they never expected the stunt to cause any turmoil. "I deeply regret that this incident caused such anguish and disruption to so many people," Berdovsky told the Charlestown District Court. Stevens said he saw the devices simply as "harmless entertainment." "I had no intention of upsetting or alarming anyone," he said. The two were accused of planting about three dozen battery-powered devices in Boston and Cambridge on Jan. 31. The devices, a promotion for Cartoon Network, had lights that created images of a cartoon character making an obscene gesture. Fears of terrorism arose when the devices were discovered in a subway station and on a bridge, among other locations. Bomb squads were deployed, and highways, bridges and some transit stations were temporarily closed. Similar signs were placed in nine other cities around the United States, but only in Boston did they elicit such a response. Berdovsky and Stevens were charged with placing a hoax device and disorderly conduct. Attorney General Martha Coakley said it would have been difficult to prove to a jury that the men intended to create panic, and that she did not believe they realized the problems the ads would cause. "We believe this was an appropriate and fair resolution," Coakley said. Berdovsky said he was relieved the case was resolved without a trial. "I am looking forward to what the future has to bring. I'm just going to be working really hard and working on my art and working to build a really peaceful community for all of us to live in," Berdovsky told The Associated Press by telephone after the hearing. Berdovsky performed 80 hours of service and Stevens completed 60 hours at the Spaulding Rehabilitation Center in Boston. The men designed a cartoon mural that will be painted in a waiting area for children undergoing physical therapy, said Oz Mondejar, Spaulding's vice president of human resources. They also helped patients use computers, cleaned the hospital's sailing docks and helped produce a DVD featuring patients talking about their rehabilitation successes. Turner Broadcasting and the advertising agency that carried out the campaign, Interference Inc., agreed to pay a $2 million settlement to cover costs and restitution for the law enforcement response. The head of the Cartoon Network resigned nine days after the stunt. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint.
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/S/SOCAL_FIRE?SITE=NJMOR&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	Daily Record - Nation & World Subscribe to our Daily Report newsletter May 11, 4:22 PM EDT S. Calif. Island Fire Turned From Town Fire Threatens Posh, SoCal Resort Island Buy AP Photo Reprints Photos: Wildfires Across the U.S. Photos: Wildfire Burns in California Charges Against Crew Boss Calif. Island Survives Wildfire Scare 2 Kids Charged in Ga. Wildfires Ga. Wildfire Called 'A Long-Term Battle' AVALON, Calif. (AP) -- Firefighters turned back flames that threatened Santa Catalina Island's main city and some residents planned to return to their homes Friday after thousands were forced to evacuate a day earlier. The wildfire was 4,000 acres, or more than 6 square miles, and was only 10 percent contained early Friday. But worries were eased by the day's favorable weather forecast and the arrival of dozens of fire trucks and air tankers on the narrow, mountainous island 30 miles off Los Angeles. "Everyone is working very hard to make sure that the people are safe and the animals are safe," Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger said Friday. Most of the 76-square-mile island is owned by a land conservancy, home to wildlife including the Catalina Island fox, North American bison and bald eagle. Flames that had menaced the main city of Avalon the night before were no longer visible from there on Friday. But a layer of ash and a puff of smoke that rose from a hillside overlooking the crescent harbor were reminders of a harrowing night. "The risk has been reduced significantly," Fire Chief Steven Hoefs said. "Most of the structures have been protected." The blaze broke out Thursday afternoon in the island's rugged interior, feeding on dry brush and fanned by a steady wind into the night. One home and a few small structures in the canyons outside the city burned. About 3,800 residents and tourists fled, Schwarzenegger said. As people lined up at the harbor Thursday night to board ferries to the mainland, many covered their faces with towels and bandanas to ward off ashes. Resident Kathy Troeger fled with her three children and a friend's daughter, while her husband, a fire captain, stayed behind to fight the blaze. "It was like a nightmare when we left," she said after arriving at the mainland port of Long Beach. "You couldn't breathe, and ash was falling like snow." Anita Bussing, a therapist who has a second home on the island, described a sky "completely gray with orange streaks." The helicopters were flying all over the place," she said. "People were freaking out, children were crying." Island hotel worker Susana Garcia, 22, waited long into the night at the dock looking for her father. She had gone to the mainland to do errands before the fire started and was unable to reach her father, who had stayed behind. "I've been asking everybody if they've seen him, but I haven't found him yet," Garcia said. Dozens of fire engines arrived through the night from as far away as Fresno, carried by giant military hovercraft from the Marine Corps' Camp Pendleton. One firefighter was overcome by inhalation and was in stable condition. Wind that reached 20 mph Thursday calmed and were expected to blow the fire westward, away from Avalon and toward the island's sparsely populated center. Despite being well offshore, Catalina has been left parched by the lack of rainfall that has made the rest of Southern California particularly susceptible to wildfires like the one in Los Angeles' Griffith Park this week. Television actor Steven W. Bailey, who lives near the park, had gone to Catalina with his wife to escape the smoke and heat on Thursday. As they approached the island, he spotted the smoke of the island blaze, and when they arrived, they weren't allowed to check into their hotel. "It just descended into more and more fire, more and more smoke, more and more ash," Bailey told KABC-TV. Firefighters were still working Friday to surround what remained of the Griffith Park fire, which briefly chased people from homes and threatened the park's landmark observatory and zoo. Elsewhere around the country, firefighters battled the second Georgia wildfire to burn more than 100,000 acres as gusty wind spread the fast-moving blaze further into northern Florida and toward the tiny town of Fargo west of the Okefenokee Swamp. Officials said the wildfire, ignited Saturday by lightning, had grown so rapidly that after six days it already rivaled a fire that has scorched 116,480 acres, or 182 square miles, of southeastern Georgia forest and swampland since April 16 - the state's largest wildfire on record. About 570 homes in northern Columbia County, Fla., were evacuated overnight, and heavy smoke blanketed the area. A haze was seen in Miami, more than 300 miles away. To the north, a wildfire grew to nearly 86 square miles in northeastern Minnesota and across the border into Canada, cutting power and phone lines to many resorts and lake homes. The fire, driven by high wind Thursday and fed by drought-parched forest, has already destroyed 45 structures and was threatening about 200 more. The chance of desperately needed rainfall was still days away. Associated Press writers Daisy Nguyen and Christina Almeida in Los Angeles, and Gillian Flaccus in Long Beach contributed to this report. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint.
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/M/MISSOURI_FLOODING?SITE=NJMOR&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	Daily Record - Nation & World Subscribe to our Daily Report newsletter May 11, 6:56 PM EDT More Mo. Flooding; Parts of River Crest Farmer: Flood 'Very Financially Strapping' More Mo. Flooding; Parts of River Crest Evacuations, Sandbagging in Missouri Buy AP Photo Reprints WOOLDRIDGE, Mo. (AP) -- Levee breaks along the Missouri River flooded homes, farms, highways and railroad tracks as floodwaters that have inundated the region were expected to peak in some spots this weekend. Near-record flood levels dropped in some places but rose in northwest and central Missouri, as worried residents removed valuables from their homes and filled sandbags to protect river communities. A barge that floated loose in Glasgow was captured by the state water patrol about 60 road miles downstream near Hartsburg, officials said. The water patrol planned to tie it up until the waters recede, Highway Patrol Capt. Tim Hull said. Along the Mississippi River, surging water and debris threatened to knock loose a docked, four-story pleasure barge and slam it into a bridge. Three of the four chains holding it in place broke, but U.S. Coast Guard crews and a private tug boat company were able to secure it. Inmates from St. Joseph prison and National Guard members filled sandbags to try to protect a water treatment plant, schools and an ethanol plant near Craig, where the Missouri River dropped a few inches Thursday. The water got within "a hillbilly's whisker from going over in several places," Holt County Sheriff Kirby Felumb said. Rivers breached or topped dozens of levees across the state, officials said. No serious injuries or deaths had been reported in the flooding, said Brian Hauswirth, a spokesman for the State Emergency Management Agency. The storms that raised river levels also generated the tornadoes that killed 12 people in Kansas last weekend. Although the river crests were lower than forecast in many areas, residents remained anxious. Many were here for the 1993 floods, among the most costly in U.S. history. At the State Emergency Operations Center, Gov. Matt Blunt said damage assessment teams were being dispatched to 17 counties, and about 100 Missouri National Guard members had been deployed. He said the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers has prepared about 1.2 million sandbags. "We were fortunate that a majority of counties made a lot of improvements since '93," National Guard Col. Glenn Hagler said. The rain-swollen rivers and streams that make up the Missouri River system are causing damage as the water flows east toward St. Louis, where the Missouri River meets the Mississippi, said Suzanne Fortin, a meteorologist with the National Weather Service. In Jefferson City, the Missouri River was expected to crest Sunday at 8.7 feet above flood stage, which could cause flooding at the airport and other low-lying areas below the bluff where the state Capitol sits. Officials in Chariton County, which includes Brunswick, said the Grand River was expected to crest Friday afternoon and the levees should hold. People were sandbagging some low-lying spots. Some basements had water in them, but no serious damage or injuries were reported. Also Friday, farmers in Wooldridge, a tiny town about 15 miles west of Columbia, contested plans by the Department of Conversation to let a small amount of water into a wetland habitat. Levees had cut the area off from the Missouri River, said wildlife regional supervisor Mike Schroer. But town residents objected and stopped water from entering the pipe about 15 minutes after it was opened, and the agency said it had no plans to try again. John Clay, whose farm is protected by the levee, said two area residents were standing guard to prevent state officials from reopening it. "This could not be acceptable, and there can be no good reason to do this at this point in time with the river flooding," he said. Associated Press writer Heather Hollingsworth in Kansas City and Jim Salter in St. Louis, Mo., contributed to this report. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint.
http://apdigitalnews.com/privacy.html	AP Digital | Terms of Use
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/B/BRIDGE_CRASH_FATALS?SITE=NJMOR&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	Daily Record - Nation & World Subscribe to our Daily Report newsletter May 11, 9:45 AM EDT 3 Dead in Crash on Chesapeake Bay Bridge Buy AP Photo Reprints ANNAPOLIS, Md. (AP) -- A runaway trailer started a chain-reaction crash on the Chesapeake Bay bridge, killing three people and injuring five others as dozens of vehicles swerved to avoid it, authorities said. As crumpled trucks were hauled away Thursday evening, structural engineers examined the bridge by boat, air and foot and it was found to be structurally sound and safe, said Marcus Brown, chief of the Maryland Transportation Authority Police. Friday morning, all lanes were open again. The bridge, officially known as the William Preston Lane Jr. Memorial Bridge, is the main artery connecting Maryland's Eastern Shore with the rest of the state. With the westbound lanes closed all night, stores on the eastern side were busy. "They can't get across the bridge to go home so they're just hanging out until the bridge opens up. It's good for business, but it's not good for me here all alone," said Melodie Shreve, who was working by herself at the Shore Stop in Stevensville. The Best Western in Grasonville, a few miles from the bridge, sold out by 8 p.m. Melissa Hess, the front desk supervisor, said some guests who had suites even gave up their second room to help stranded motorists. The crash started when a small flatbed trailer being pulled by an SUV came unattached shortly after 4 p.m. at the start of the bridge's westbound span. In all, seven vehicles crashed, including a tanker hauling animal fat and a tow truck. "Other vehicles that were following swerved to avoid a trailer and that's what started this collision," said police Cpl. Jonathan Green. He described it as an "unbelievable crash scene" with vehicles pinned against each other and the railings, but said none went off the bridge. Brown said it was too early in the investigation to say whether charges would be filed. One person was flown to the University of Maryland Shock Trauma Center with life-threatening injuries; four others had less serious injuries, Brown said. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint.
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/B/BABY_NAMES_KATRINA?SITE=NJMOR&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	Daily Record - Nation & World Subscribe to our Daily Report newsletter May 11, 4:56 PM EDT Katrina Dips in Popularity As Baby Name Buy AP Photo Reprints Memo sent regarding the defective levee pumps Day at the Depot: Store Becomes Community Hub AP Analysis: Katrina Insurance Katrina Insurance: The Survivors Letter from U.S. Sen. Vitter Expressing Concern Over Levee Pumps (04/13/2007) WASHINGTON (AP) -- As baby names go, Katrina isn't in vogue these days. But she hasn't disappeared either. From its peak in the 1980s - when it regularly ranked among the 100 most popular names that parents chose for their daughters - it had gradually slumped to 247th by 2005, even before Hurricane Katrina smashed the Gulf Coast in late summer of that year. The name's association with the catastrophe has now knocked it out of consideration for most parents, sinking its popularity to the lowest ebb since the 1950s. Only about 850 baby girls in the United States were named Katrina last year, according to new data released Friday by the Social Security Administration, dropping it more than 100 slots on the popularity list. At a rank of 382nd, it now sits just below Brenna. Ironically, the two states that suffered most of Katrina's wrath bucked the trend, if only in small numbers. In Louisiana, the number of babies named Katrina jumped from eight in the 12 months before the storm to 15 in the 12 months after, according to state health officials. In Mississippi, seven babies were given the name from 2004 until the storm hit in August 2005, according to state data. The number climbed to 24 from September 2005 through the end of 2006. Overall, the country's most popular names list hasn't changed much since 2005. Emily and Jacob remain atop the list. Emily has been the top girls' name since 1996; Jacob for boys since 1999. The national trend surprised Cleveland Evans, a psychology professor and names expert at Bellevue University in Nebraska. But he said Katrina isn't likely to go extinct. "This is not going to be a name like Adolf that's going to disappear and be unusable ever again," he said, referring to that name's association with Adolf Hitler. Scarlett and Stephen Billis, a Los Angeles-area couple, named their daughter Katrina last May. Scarlett said the couple was reluctant to use the name less than a year after the hurricane, but her husband had always liked it as a variation of Katherine, a family name. Also, their family is Greek and the name is close to the popular Greek name Katerina. "People ask if we named her after the hurricane," Billis said. "We didn't pick it because of that and we were actually hesitant ... but we do joke that our house looks like a hurricane hit." The Social Security Administration's rankings, released each year just before Mother's Day, are based on some 4.2 million Social Security card applications from 2006. Social Security began compiling the name lists in 1997. The agency offers lists of baby names for each year since 1880 on its Web site: &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint.
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/J/JAMESTOWN_ANNIVERSARY?SITE=KLIF&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	Sign-Up & Login Page Ed Wallace - "Wheels" The Dallas Morning News The New York Times The Chicago Sun Times The San Francisco Chronicle The Los Angeles Times The Wall Street Journal Real Change - Skeleton Closet People for the American Way May 11, 4:59 PM EDT Va. Marks Jamestown Settlement Buy AP Photo Reprints Interpreters Bring Jamestown History to Life JAMESTOWN, Va. (AP) -- History lovers lined up Friday to buy a postage stamp recognizing Jamestown as America's first permanent English settlement, one of several weekend events marking the site's 400th anniversary. The commemoration will also include concerts, fireworks and a Sunday appearance by President Bush. More than 100 white tents and several stages were set up around the Jamestown venues, giving them the feel of a county fair. Cultural anthropologist Judith Scott, who's been collecting stamps since was 8, waited more than an hour to buy the new Jamestown issue. The 41-cent stamp's triangular shape represents the settlers' original three-sided fort and their three ships. With her purchases tucked inside a commemorative tote bag, she and her husband, Carl, were ready to start hitting the concert stages and exhibition tents. "We don't to miss a thing," said Scott, a Venezuela native who lives in Oakton. Activities were taking place at Historic Jamestowne, where archaeologists in the mid-1990s found the remains of the settlers' fort, which had long been thought to have been washed away in the James River; the Jamestown Settlement museum, which has replicas of the fort, the settlers' three ships and an Indian village; and at the new Anniversary Park, across from Jamestown Settlement. Virginia has been throwing major Jamestown bashes every 50 years, but they have been careful to call this year's event a "commemoration," rather than a celebration. With the arrival of the English in May 1607, native Indian tribes eventually were pushed off their lands, and slavery in America is traced to Jamestown, where the first Africans in the country arrived in 1619. This year's anniversary of the colony, which was founded as a business venture, is the first to focus on all three of those cultures. The 1957 anniversary was a largely white affair. Blacks were involved in the 1907 anniversary exposition, held an hour away in Norfolk, which included a visit by black educator and leader Booker T. Washington on "Negro Day." "In 2007, it's our year to get it right, to make sure everyone is at the table," Gov. Timothy M. Kaine said. More than half of the weekend's 90,000 tickets remained unsold as of last week. Amateur historian James Pegram of Hernando, Fla., said he planned to attend all three days. "I love this place and I think everyone in America should be here at least once," Pegram said. On Friday, Kaine was expected to join former Supreme Court Justice Sandra Day O'Connor, honorary chair of Jamestown 2007, and other dignitaries at the rededication of Historic Jamestowne. He was expected to help officially ring in the weekend with a ceremony at Anniversary Park later Friday. On Saturday, a replica of the small work boat that colonist John Smith used to explore the Chesapeake Bay and its tributaries in the early 17th Century will set sail to retrace Smith's voyage. Other highlights include a joint performance by the Virginia Symphony and Richmond Symphony orchestras to premiere works written for the commemoration and a concert headlined by Bruce Hornsby, the Williamsburg-based pianist and songwriter. Bush will participate in ceremonies on Sunday, and the weekend will conclude with the performance of a 400-piece orchestra and a 1,607-voice choir. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint.
http://hosted.ap.org/	News from The Associated Press
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/M/MISSOURI_FLOODING?SITE=KLIF&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	Sign-Up & Login Page Ed Wallace - "Wheels" The Dallas Morning News The New York Times The Chicago Sun Times The San Francisco Chronicle The Los Angeles Times The Wall Street Journal Real Change - Skeleton Closet People for the American Way May 11, 6:56 PM EDT More Mo. Flooding; Parts of River Crest Farmer: Flood 'Very Financially Strapping' More Mo. Flooding; Parts of River Crest Evacuations, Sandbagging in Missouri Buy AP Photo Reprints WOOLDRIDGE, Mo. (AP) -- Levee breaks along the Missouri River flooded homes, farms, highways and railroad tracks as floodwaters that have inundated the region were expected to peak in some spots this weekend. Near-record flood levels dropped in some places but rose in northwest and central Missouri, as worried residents removed valuables from their homes and filled sandbags to protect river communities. A barge that floated loose in Glasgow was captured by the state water patrol about 60 road miles downstream near Hartsburg, officials said. The water patrol planned to tie it up until the waters recede, Highway Patrol Capt. Tim Hull said. Along the Mississippi River, surging water and debris threatened to knock loose a docked, four-story pleasure barge and slam it into a bridge. Three of the four chains holding it in place broke, but U.S. Coast Guard crews and a private tug boat company were able to secure it. Inmates from St. Joseph prison and National Guard members filled sandbags to try to protect a water treatment plant, schools and an ethanol plant near Craig, where the Missouri River dropped a few inches Thursday. The water got within "a hillbilly's whisker from going over in several places," Holt County Sheriff Kirby Felumb said. Rivers breached or topped dozens of levees across the state, officials said. No serious injuries or deaths had been reported in the flooding, said Brian Hauswirth, a spokesman for the State Emergency Management Agency. The storms that raised river levels also generated the tornadoes that killed 12 people in Kansas last weekend. Although the river crests were lower than forecast in many areas, residents remained anxious. Many were here for the 1993 floods, among the most costly in U.S. history. At the State Emergency Operations Center, Gov. Matt Blunt said damage assessment teams were being dispatched to 17 counties, and about 100 Missouri National Guard members had been deployed. He said the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers has prepared about 1.2 million sandbags. "We were fortunate that a majority of counties made a lot of improvements since '93," National Guard Col. Glenn Hagler said. The rain-swollen rivers and streams that make up the Missouri River system are causing damage as the water flows east toward St. Louis, where the Missouri River meets the Mississippi, said Suzanne Fortin, a meteorologist with the National Weather Service. In Jefferson City, the Missouri River was expected to crest Sunday at 8.7 feet above flood stage, which could cause flooding at the airport and other low-lying areas below the bluff where the state Capitol sits. Officials in Chariton County, which includes Brunswick, said the Grand River was expected to crest Friday afternoon and the levees should hold. People were sandbagging some low-lying spots. Some basements had water in them, but no serious damage or injuries were reported. Also Friday, farmers in Wooldridge, a tiny town about 15 miles west of Columbia, contested plans by the Department of Conversation to let a small amount of water into a wetland habitat. Levees had cut the area off from the Missouri River, said wildlife regional supervisor Mike Schroer. But town residents objected and stopped water from entering the pipe about 15 minutes after it was opened, and the agency said it had no plans to try again. John Clay, whose farm is protected by the levee, said two area residents were standing guard to prevent state officials from reopening it. "This could not be acceptable, and there can be no good reason to do this at this point in time with the river flooding," he said. Associated Press writer Heather Hollingsworth in Kansas City and Jim Salter in St. Louis, Mo., contributed to this report. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint.
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/C/CRINGE_READINGS?SITE=KLIF&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	Sign-Up & Login Page Ed Wallace - "Wheels" The Dallas Morning News The New York Times The Chicago Sun Times The San Francisco Chronicle The Los Angeles Times The Wall Street Journal Real Change - Skeleton Closet People for the American Way May 11, 4:19 PM EDT Diary Readings: Teen Angst Flashback Polls & Test Scores AP Education Reporter Ben Feller Math and Reading Scores by State Md. School Evacuated Over Odd Bottle Security Tighter for Colo. Graduation New Orleans' State-Run Schools Score Low Kan. Spikes Conservative Sex Ed Policies 2 School Buses Crash in N.J. Buy AP Photo Reprints NEW YORK (AP) -- The year was 1987, the boy's name was Rob, and 13-year-old Ingrid Wiese had some pressing concerns. "He kisses weird," she wrote in her diary. "I just hope it doesn't stick and I don't end up kissing like that forever." Twenty years later, Wiese hauled the diary out of storage and read it to a bar full of strangers just for laughs. "Cringe" readings, these exercises are called, and they are growing in popularity around the country. In other cities, they have names such as "Mortified" and "Salon of Shame." Groups in New York and elsewhere convene to relive what most would rather forget: the depths of their teenage angst. Participants get up on stage with their ragged, old diaries and are instructed to read only material embarrassing enough to make them cringe. It turns out that embarrassing is also funny. When Wiese appeared at the reading, held monthly at a Brooklyn bar, the room was packed beyond capacity. The 33-year-old fundraiser may have been cringing, but her audience was cheering. "When most people hear about it they think, `Oh God, that would be just absolutely humiliating, I would never do that,'" said Blaise Kearsley, another reader. "But I think there's something so universal about your adolescent diaries and your poems and your school assignments. It's just stuff that everyone can relate to." Indeed, as readers spoke about zits and boys, sex and death, they heard plenty of knowing laughter. Perhaps only teenagers or former teenagers could follow this diary entry, written by a 14-year-old Kearsley in 1987: "When we got to the dance, Erin was depressed because she likes John and he spent the whole night dancing with Ada. But Ada was upset because at the end of the dance John frenched her. And number one: she likes him but she doesn't know if she likes him in THAT WAY. And number two: John is good friends with Dan, her ex, and she knows that Dan will have something to say to John about this." The Brooklyn event was started by a local administrative assistant, Sarah Brown, who in a momentary, drunken lapse started reading her old diaries to friends - and discovered they had finally become more funny than painful. The monthly cringe reading has since landed Brown a book deal and a pilot for cable television's TLC, allowing the 29-year-old to quit her day job. Similar events are happening around the country in Los Angeles, San Francisco, Chicago, Milwaukee and Seattle. "When you're a teenager, everything is the same level of intensity," Brown said. "They read about boys, or girls, or their parents, or their friends, or school, or something serious like, you know, a divorce - but ... there's no change of tone." While the readers try to keep it light, plenty of the material in their diaries is dark, heart-wrenching stuff. "Why? Why do you think someone could really love you?" a now-grown Ingrid Wiese reads to the crowd. "You're fat, out of shape, covered with zits. You can just feel how your body is GOING. Your arms, your wrists, your calves. You're insecure, immature, and" - she lowers her voice to a whisper - "your grades reflect your intelligence." The 33-year-old Wiese says it's enough to make her wish she could somehow give that insecure girl a hug. "I just want to go back and tell that kid so many things, but mostly that `you're just all right the way you are,'" Wiese said after the reading. These days, Wiese's emotions are less heightened, and she carries herself confidently as she walks from the stage. Still, some things never change. "Of course!" she says when asked if she still obsesses over boys. "And I write all about it on my blog." &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint.
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/S/SUSPICIOUS_DEVICES?SITE=KLIF&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	Sign-Up & Login Page Ed Wallace - "Wheels" The Dallas Morning News The New York Times The Chicago Sun Times The San Francisco Chronicle The Los Angeles Times The Wall Street Journal Real Change - Skeleton Closet People for the American Way May 11, 4:28 PM EDT Men Apologize for Boston Cartoon Stunt Buy AP Photo Reprints When Guerrilla Marketing Goes Awry BOSTON (AP) -- Prosecutors said they would not pursue charges against two men who planted electronic devices around the city as part of a botched advertising campaign after the pair apologized Friday for causing a bomb scare. Peter Berdovsky, 27, and Sean Stevens, 28, also performed community service at a rehabilitation center in a deal with prosecutors. In contrast to their first court appearance in January, when they mugged for the camera and waved to friends in the courtroom, the men offered contrite apologies and said they never expected the stunt to cause any turmoil. "I deeply regret that this incident caused such anguish and disruption to so many people," Berdovsky told the Charlestown District Court. Stevens said he saw the devices simply as "harmless entertainment." "I had no intention of upsetting or alarming anyone," he said. The two were accused of planting about three dozen battery-powered devices in Boston and Cambridge on Jan. 31. The devices, a promotion for Cartoon Network, had lights that created images of a cartoon character making an obscene gesture. Fears of terrorism arose when the devices were discovered in a subway station and on a bridge, among other locations. Bomb squads were deployed, and highways, bridges and some transit stations were temporarily closed. Similar signs were placed in nine other cities around the United States, but only in Boston did they elicit such a response. Berdovsky and Stevens were charged with placing a hoax device and disorderly conduct. Attorney General Martha Coakley said it would have been difficult to prove to a jury that the men intended to create panic, and that she did not believe they realized the problems the ads would cause. "We believe this was an appropriate and fair resolution," Coakley said. Berdovsky said he was relieved the case was resolved without a trial. "I am looking forward to what the future has to bring. I'm just going to be working really hard and working on my art and working to build a really peaceful community for all of us to live in," Berdovsky told The Associated Press by telephone after the hearing. Berdovsky performed 80 hours of service and Stevens completed 60 hours at the Spaulding Rehabilitation Center in Boston. The men designed a cartoon mural that will be painted in a waiting area for children undergoing physical therapy, said Oz Mondejar, Spaulding's vice president of human resources. They also helped patients use computers, cleaned the hospital's sailing docks and helped produce a DVD featuring patients talking about their rehabilitation successes. Turner Broadcasting and the advertising agency that carried out the campaign, Interference Inc., agreed to pay a $2 million settlement to cover costs and restitution for the law enforcement response. The head of the Cartoon Network resigned nine days after the stunt. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint.
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/V/VIRGINIA_TECH_GRADUATION?SITE=KLIF&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	Sign-Up & Login Page Ed Wallace - "Wheels" The Dallas Morning News The New York Times The Chicago Sun Times The San Francisco Chronicle The Los Angeles Times The Wall Street Journal Real Change - Skeleton Closet People for the American Way May 11, 6:16 PM EDT Va. Tech Graduations Honor Slain Victims Virginia Tech Prepares for Commencement Dan O'Neil Memorial Concert Buy AP Photo Reprints Virginia Tech Shooting Coverage Students Return to Classes Slain Singer Honored With Concert Virginia Tech: A Self-Portrait Portraits of the Victims Timeline of Seung-Hui Cho's Life The Victims: A Family Mourns The Victims: Holocaust Survivor Saves Students Memorials: Field of Grief Search Warrants for Cho's Computer, Phone and Medical Records (ABC News) Cho's Mental Health Records Objects Seized from Cho's Room Va. Tech Graduations Honor Slain Victims Va. Tech Review Panel Holds 1st Meeting Gen. Abizaid to Give Va. Tech Speech URL Buyers Hope to Cash in on Tragedy Va. Tech Seniors Prepare for Transition Va. Tech to Honor Victims at Graduation Cho Didn't Get Court-Ordered Treatment Bomb Warning Found Before Tech Shooting Opinions Vary on Fate of Va. Tech Hall Va. Tech Fields Merchandise Requests BLACKSBURG, Va. (AP) -- Thousands of Virginia Tech graduates struggled to balance joy with grief as commencement ceremonies got under way Friday, less than a month after a student gunman's rampage devastated the campus. In an address to about 600 of the nearly 1,200 graduate students who received master's degrees, President Charles Steger spoke to the community's grief while encouraging the graduates to be proud of their accomplishments and hopeful for their futures. "Our hearts are saddened and our minds are troubled," Steger said. A larger ceremony for some 3,600 graduating seniors was set for Friday evening, where the school planned to issue class rings to relatives of the 26 slain students, followed by diplomas in smaller ceremonies Saturday. "Short was their stay on this mortal stage. Great was their impact," Steger said of the slain students. Gunman Seung-Hui Cho also killed five faculty members and himself. His family will not receive a ring or diploma. During the graduate ceremonies, nine slain graduate students were awarded posthumous master's degrees or doctorates. Faculty members hugged the relatives who received them, some wiping away tears and all drawing long and loud applause from the crowd of several thousand. Graduate Scott Cassell, 55, of Roanoke, hadn't planned to attend the commencement ceremonies. But after the attacks, the father of five decided he would go as a show of support for the grieving families. "I just can't fathom the loss," said Cassell, who received a master's degree in information technology. Security employees checked the bags of guests, armed police officers patrolled the grounds and state troopers stood guard at every entrance. Guests did not have to pass through metal detectors, though, and school officials said the level of security was comparable to what they would see at a home football game. James Long, whose sister, Michelle, earned a degree in history, said students would not let the tragedy overshadow their celebration. "There are too many people here to celebrate five, six years of hard work to let one guy screw that up," said Long, 25, of Richmond. Some families couldn't bear to attend graduation. Others said they had no choice but to come. "We have to. This is right for us," said Peter Read, whose freshman daughter Mary Karen Read was among those killed. Peter and Cathy Read returned to campus for more than their daughter's degree. They also returned to erase an unsettling image from the minds of their two youngest sons, Patrick, 4, and Brendan, 2. "They're a little concerned that the bad man's going to shoot them," Cathy Read said. "We can't let that idea grow in their heads." In Washington, President Bush issued a statement praising "the compassion and resilient spirit" of the Virginia Tech community and the 3,600 graduating seniors and others earning advanced or associate degrees. "Laura and I salute the Virginia Tech Class of 2007. We also remember the students and teachers whose lives were taken last month," he said. "They will always hold a special place in the hearts of this graduating class and an entire nation." Twins Andrea and Michelle Falletti of Chantilly, Va., said the shootings will not be what they remember when they look back on four years of college. Rather, they will recall spring breaks, camping trips and partying with friends. "Obviously, what has happened has affected everything in our lives, and it will affect graduation," said Andrea Falletti, 21. "In a way, it's not going to be celebrating us as much; it's more about what we've done as a community. But that's OK. I'm proud of what we've done here." Associated Press writers Sue Lindsey and Vicki Smith contributed to this report. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint.
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/F/FORT_DIX_PLOT?SITE=KLIF&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	Sign-Up & Login Page Ed Wallace - "Wheels" The Dallas Morning News The New York Times The Chicago Sun Times The San Francisco Chronicle The Los Angeles Times The Wall Street Journal Real Change - Skeleton Closet People for the American Way May 11, 4:21 PM EDT Fort Dix Suspects All Are Denied Bail Buy AP Photo Reprints Criminal complaint against Eljvir Duka in Fort Dix plot case Hearing Transcript: Waleed Mohammed bin Attash Hearing Transcript: Khalid Sheikh Mohammed Hearing Transcript Abu Faraj al-Libi Hearing Transcript: Ramzi Binalshibh Declassified Report: Iraq 'Cause Celebre' for Extremists U.S. Pushing Europe for Flight Data Deal Bush's Privacy Board Not Doing Its Job? British Police Make 4 Terror Arrests Doctor in Terror Trial Defends Himself Dix Plot Shows Homegrown Radical Threat CAMDEN, N.J. (AP) -- Six Muslim men suspected of plotting to massacre U.S. soldiers at Fort Dix were ordered held without bail Friday. Prosecutors argued that the men, all born outside the United States, pose a flight risk. They are being held at a federal detention center in Philadelphia. The men were arrested Monday during what the FBI said was an attempt to buy AK-47 machine guns, M-16s and other weapons. They targeted Fort Dix, a post 25 miles east of Philadelphia that is used primarily to train reservists, partly because one of them had delivered pizzas there and was familiar with the base, according to court filings. Their objective was to kill "as many American soldiers as possible," the documents said. The men have lived in and around Philadelphia for years, worshipped at moderate mosques and worked blue-collar jobs installing roofs, driving a cab, delivering pizzas and baking bread. Four are ethnic Albanians from the former Yugoslavia, one is from Jordan and one is from Turkey. As they were led into the courtroom, each of the suspects smiled to relatives and friends, many of whom wept and blew kisses to them. Only one of the men, Mohamad Ibrahim Shnewer, 22, asked to be released on bail, and friends and relatives offered to post properties they owned as collateral. Assistant U.S. Attorney Stephen Stigall argued against letting Shnewer be released to the custody of his parents while awaiting trial. He said many of the illegal actions that the government alleges Shnewer committed happened or were planned at his parents' house. Defense lawyers for some of the men said they are considering attacking the prosecution's reliance on two paid informants who infiltrated the group more than a year ago and recorded conversations with the defendants. Authorities said they first learned about the men in January 2006 after a tip from a clerk at a Mount Laurel electronics store. Circuit City spokeswoman Jackie Foreman said Friday that credit for the tip is shared by two employees. She declined to name them but said the company has "communicated its appreciation." She declined to give details. The pair called police because a home video the men wanted transferred to a DVD looked like it might have terrorist links, U.S. Attorney Christopher J. Christie said. Earlier this year, authorities said, the men took a training trip to the Pocono Mountains in Pennsylvania, where they fired weapons and played paintball to prepare for an attack. Five of the men - Shnewer; Serdar Tatar, 23; Dritan "Anthony" or "Tony" Duka, 28; Shain Duka, 26; and Eljvir "Elvis" Duka, 23 - are charged with conspiring to kill uniformed military personnel, an offense punishable by life in prison. Agron Abdullahu, 24, is charged with helping illegal immigrants obtain weapons. He could face 10 years in prison if convicted. Abdullahu, who faces the least serious charges of the six, will have another bail hearing next Thursday. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint.
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/M/MUTILATED_INFANT?SITE=KLIF&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	Sign-Up & Login Page Ed Wallace - "Wheels" The Dallas Morning News The New York Times The Chicago Sun Times The San Francisco Chronicle The Los Angeles Times The Wall Street Journal Real Change - Skeleton Closet People for the American Way May 11, 6:13 PM EDT Texas Mother Accused of Mutilating Baby By JUAN A. LOZANO Buy AP Photo Reprints HOUSTON (AP) -- A mother who claimed the family dog tore off her baby son's genitals was arrested Friday and accused of mutilating the boy herself with a sharp instrument. Katherine Nadal, 25, was led away in handcuffs while awaiting a court hearing on custody of the 3-month-old boy, Holden Gothia. She was charged with injury to a child and held on $100,000 bail. Child-welfare authorities said she told social workers she woke up from a nap March 13 to find that her small dachshund had attacked her son. But a veterinarian and a doctor agreed the dog did not cause the injuries, because there was no blood or human tissue on the animal or in its mouth, police said. Police said in court papers that the mother had used a sharp instrument to cut off the boy's genitals. The instrument was not identified. Nadal's attorney had no comment. Nadal had a history of prescription drug abuse and tested positive for cocaine and methadone the day after Holden was mutilated, authorities said. She has been forbidden to see her son since the injuries occurred in March. "Given what we know today, we will probably work toward terminating her parental rights and reuniting the child with his father or another relative," said Harris County Child Protective Services spokeswoman Estella Olguin. The baby has years of reconstructive surgery and other operations ahead of him, said Daniel Sanders, an attorney for Camden Gothia, the baby's father. The dog has since been released by authorities and adopted. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint.
http://apdigitalnews.com/privacy.html	AP Digital | Terms of Use
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/W/WILDFIRES?SITE=KLIF&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	Sign-Up & Login Page Ed Wallace - "Wheels" The Dallas Morning News The New York Times The Chicago Sun Times The San Francisco Chronicle The Los Angeles Times The Wall Street Journal Real Change - Skeleton Closet People for the American Way May 11, 6:31 PM EDT Calif. Island Survives Wildfire Scare Schwarzenegger Reacts to SoCal Wildfires Photos: Wildfires Across the U.S. Photos: Wildfire Burns in California Charges Against Crew Boss Calif. Island Survives Wildfire Scare 2 Kids Charged in Ga. Wildfires Ga. Wildfire Called 'A Long-Term Battle' Buy AP Photo Reprints AVALON, Calif. (AP) -- Water-dumping planes and helicopters helped beat back soaring flames that threatened this quaint Catalina Island town Friday, giving firefighters a victory that allowed nearly 4,000 evacuated residents to start coming home. Even though the six-square-mile blaze was only 10 percent contained, the wildfire and thick smoke was confined to the tinder-dry brush in the mountains of this narrow island 30 miles off Los Angeles. Avalon's cobblestone streets, brightly painted bungalows, landmark casino and tourist hotels were mostly spared, with only one home and several outbuildings burned. No one was seriously injured. "Thank goodness the firefighters did get here because that made the difference," said Martha Ashleigh, 61, who has lived on Catalina on and off for years. "We were watching from our balcony and we could just see truck after truck go up there. They were just fabulous." A day earlier, flames bore down from the mountains, raining ash and chaos on the crescent harbor. Evacuated residents clambered onto ferries that passed U.S. Navy hovercrafts packed with fire trucks from the mainland. Many were workers who cook and clean for vacationers. Others were at vacation homes as the summer tourist season geared up. "It's like a war zone. The skies turned completely gray with orange streaks. The helicopters were flying all over the place," said Anita Bussing, a therapist whose other home is in Long Beach. "People were freaking out, children were crying." By Friday afternoon, one ferry full of residents was headed back to the island on from Long Beach, and a relay of water-carrying helicopters saturated a hillside at the edge of town where smoke curled into the blue sky. The step appeared intended to extinguish any lingering hot spots. The cause of the fire, which erupted Thursday afternoon in the 76-square-mile island's rugged interior, had not yet been determined. The island's relative isolation has proven a liability before. A 1915 fire that started in a hotel burned half the town's buildings. The island's romantic vibe was memorialized in the 1958 hit "26 Miles (Santa Catalina)." Before private jets and third homes became standard fare for the rich and really famous, Santa Catalina was a celebrity haunt for the likes of Theodore Roosevelt, Winston Churchill and Cecil B. DeMille. About 300 movies have been shot on the island or in nearby waters, including "Mutiny on the Bounty," "Chinatown," "Jaws" and "Apollo 13." One relic of that era are the herds of bison that were brought over for filming and later released. Environmentalists said it was too early to tell how the blaze affected the island's overall ecosystem, home to rare animal and plant life, including the Catalina Island fox. But four bald eaglets that hatched earlier this year without human help were unharmed, according to Bob Rhein, a spokesman for the Catalina Island Conservancy which owns most of the island. The eagles were wiped out decades ago by chemical contamination. Just days before and about 50 miles away on the mainland, crews beat back flames in Los Angeles' major park that singed a neighborhood of multimillion-dollar homes. That was the third menacing fire in the Hollywood Hills this spring - and wildfire season here isn't supposed to heat up until the fall. Around the country, firefighters battled a wildfire in Georgia and northern Florida that burned 179,940 acres - or 281 square miles - since a lightning strike ignited it a week ago. The fire, which started last Saturday in the middle of the Okefenokee National Wildlife Refuge, took just six days to grow larger than a wildfire that has burned 116,480 acres of Georgia forest and swampland over more than three weeks. In Georgia, the fire posed a potential threat to the tiny city of Fargo, where 380 people live about eight miles west of the Okefenokee Swamp. No evacuations had been ordered Friday. About 570 homes in northern Columbia County, Fla., were evacuated overnight, and heavy smoke blanketed the area. A haze was seen in Miami, more than 300 miles away. To the north, a wildfire grew to nearly 86 square miles in northeastern Minnesota and across the border into Canada, cutting power and phone lines to many resorts and lake homes. The fire, driven by high wind Thursday and fed by drought-parched forest, has already destroyed 45 structures and was threatening about 200 more. The chance of desperately needed rainfall was still days away. Associated Press writers Jeff Wilson and Robert Jablon in Los Angeles, Peter Prengaman in Long Beach and Andrew Glazer in Avalon contributed to this report. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint.
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/A/AIRCRAFT_CRASH?SITE=KLIF&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	Sign-Up & Login Page Ed Wallace - "Wheels" The Dallas Morning News The New York Times The Chicago Sun Times The San Francisco Chronicle The Los Angeles Times The Wall Street Journal Real Change - Skeleton Closet People for the American Way May 11, 5:29 PM EDT 2 Dead in Ohio Aircraft Collision Buy AP Photo Reprints SHARONVILLE, Ohio (AP) -- Two small aircraft collided Friday over suburban Cincinnati, raining debris onto roads and backyards and killing two people on board, authorities said. The accident evidently involved two planes, the Federal Aviation Administration said in a recorded message. The agency initially said one of the aircraft might have been a helicopter. Witnesses gave conflicting accounts of the types of aircraft involved. The FAA had no information about the aircrafts' flight plans or why they were so close together. Blue Ash Airport, a runway used by small planes, is several miles away. No injuries were reported on the ground. Several roads were closed because of the debris. The planes' pilots were not required to file flight plans and apparently were not in contact with air traffic controllers, the FAA said. Resident Joe Muenks said wreckage from one of the planes fell in a yard about three blocks from his house. "It took out about a third of a tree," Muenks said. "The plane nose-dived ... The metal was so crunched together we could just see there was no way anyone who was in there could have survived." What remained of the other plane landed in a street less than a mile away, blocking the two-lane road with some debris ending up in a front yard. The aircraft narrowly missed a busy interstate, coming down on either side of it. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint.
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/V/VIRGINIA_TECH_GRADUATION?SITE=WHIZ&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	Zanesville - whiznews.com - Southeastern Ohio's Resource May 12, 9:32 AM EDT Va. Tech graduations honor slain victims Virginia Tech Prepares for Commencement Dan O'Neil Memorial Concert Buy AP Photo Reprints Virginia Tech Shooting Coverage Students Return to Classes Slain Singer Honored With Concert Virginia Tech: A Self-Portrait Portraits of the Victims Timeline of Seung-Hui Cho's Life The Victims: A Family Mourns The Victims: Holocaust Survivor Saves Students Memorials: Field of Grief Search Warrants for Cho's Computer, Phone and Medical Records (ABC News) Cho's Mental Health Records Objects Seized from Cho's Room Va. Tech graduations honor slain victims Va. Tech review panel holds 1st meeting Gen. Abizaid to give Va. Tech speech URL buyers hope to cash in on tragedy Va. Tech seniors prepare for transition Va. Tech to honor victims at graduation Cho didn't get court-ordered treatment Bomb warning found before Tech shooting Opinions vary on fate of Va. Tech hall Va. Tech fields merchandise requests BLACKSBURG, Va. (AP) -- Their lives, so filled with promise, were cut short on that April day. Their families, so filled with the hope of bright futures for their loved ones, will never know what they might have accomplished. But at Friday's graduation ceremony, the 32 Virginia Tech students and faculty killed in the April 16 massacre seemed to have achieved so much, forever bonding a community and serving as a reminder that life is precious. "In the words of Dr. Martin Luther King, 'They entered the stage of history just a few years ago, and in the brief years that they were privileged to act on this mortal stage, they played their parts exceedingly well,'" Virginia Tech President Charles Steger told 3,600 graduating seniors and a crowd of nearly 30,000 friends and family. They loved horseback riding and tennis. They were musicians and dancers. They were kind and compassionate, talented and unique, Steger said. They were Hokies. Those killed were remembered throughout the ceremony in emotional speeches, their faces pictured on a huge screen at Lane Stadium. Class rings were handed out to the families of many of the slain students. Diplomas were to follow in smaller ceremonies Saturday. Less than a month ago, gunman Seung-Hui Cho wrought devastation on this campus with a hail of bullets. While Steger acknowledged the emotional wounds may never heal, he urged the graduates to move forward and celebrate life. "Please know that moving on - moving on is not the same as forgetting," he said. "We shall not forget. Yet, one senseless burst of violence - as horrible and hurtful as it is - will not turn us from our essence." As images of the slain students and faculty flashed on the stadium's screen, Steger and Provost Mark McNamee handed out the rings and received hugs in return. Cho's family will receive neither a ring nor a diploma. He killed himself as police closed in. At a ceremony Saturday morning for the engineering school, in which 11 students and three professors were slain, Dean Richard Benson was overwhelmed with emotion. "Forgive me," Benson said quietly, his voice breaking, as he paused to collect himself after speaking about Professor Kevin Granata, who was shot in a hallway as he tried to save students. Retired Army Gen. John Abizaid, former commander of U.S. forces in Iraq, praised the graduates Friday for their quiet courage, dignity and poise in dealing with the tragedy. Survivors have a responsibility to realize the dreams and aspirations of the slain, he said. "While we are saddened by the loss of those who cannot be here today, I believe that they would want this ceremony to commemorate both the tragedy of yesterday and the promise of tomorrow," he said. "I believe that they look down on this gathering with dignified pride." Students, parents and faculty rose to their feet and cheered as Abizaid thanked Steger for "holding things together" in a time of tragedy. In many ways, the evening ceremony seemed like most commencements. Grinning students jumped up and down and waved as their faces appeared on the stadium's screen while "Pomp and Circumstance" played. Students chanted "Let's go, Hokies!" and the stadium's stands twinkled with constant camera flashes from the graduates' proud family members. They decorated their mortarboards with "VT" and "Hi Mom." But the speeches, while marked by hope, were also laced with sorrow. "Rest assured, we will define ourselves by where we have been and where we will go," class historian Jennifer Weber said. Peter and Cathy Read returned to campus for the degree of their freshman daughter, Mary Karen Read, who was among those killed. They said they also returned to erase an unsettling image from the minds of their two youngest sons, Patrick, 4, and Brendan, 2. "They're a little concerned that the bad man's going to shoot them," Cathy Read said. "We can't let that idea grow in their heads." Earlier in the day, Steger and others addressed about half of the nearly 1,200 graduate students who received master's and doctorate degrees. Nine slain graduate students were awarded posthumous degrees in that ceremony. James Long, whose sister, Michelle, earned a degree in history, said students would not let the tragedy overshadow their celebration. "There are too many people here to celebrate five, six years of hard work to let one guy screw that up," he said. Associated Press writers Sue Lindsey and Vicki Smith contributed to this report. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. Copyright &copy 1998-2006 WHIZNEWS.COM All rights reserved EEO Public File Report
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/V/VIRGINIA_TECH_GRADUATION?SITE=WHIZ&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	Zanesville - whiznews.com - Southeastern Ohio's Resource May 12, 9:32 AM EDT Va. Tech graduations honor slain victims Virginia Tech Prepares for Commencement Dan O'Neil Memorial Concert Buy AP Photo Reprints Virginia Tech Shooting Coverage Students Return to Classes Slain Singer Honored With Concert Virginia Tech: A Self-Portrait Portraits of the Victims Timeline of Seung-Hui Cho's Life The Victims: A Family Mourns The Victims: Holocaust Survivor Saves Students Memorials: Field of Grief Search Warrants for Cho's Computer, Phone and Medical Records (ABC News) Cho's Mental Health Records Objects Seized from Cho's Room Va. Tech graduations honor slain victims Va. Tech review panel holds 1st meeting Gen. Abizaid to give Va. Tech speech URL buyers hope to cash in on tragedy Va. Tech seniors prepare for transition Va. Tech to honor victims at graduation Cho didn't get court-ordered treatment Bomb warning found before Tech shooting Opinions vary on fate of Va. Tech hall Va. Tech fields merchandise requests BLACKSBURG, Va. (AP) -- Their lives, so filled with promise, were cut short on that April day. Their families, so filled with the hope of bright futures for their loved ones, will never know what they might have accomplished. But at Friday's graduation ceremony, the 32 Virginia Tech students and faculty killed in the April 16 massacre seemed to have achieved so much, forever bonding a community and serving as a reminder that life is precious. "In the words of Dr. Martin Luther King, 'They entered the stage of history just a few years ago, and in the brief years that they were privileged to act on this mortal stage, they played their parts exceedingly well,'" Virginia Tech President Charles Steger told 3,600 graduating seniors and a crowd of nearly 30,000 friends and family. They loved horseback riding and tennis. They were musicians and dancers. They were kind and compassionate, talented and unique, Steger said. They were Hokies. Those killed were remembered throughout the ceremony in emotional speeches, their faces pictured on a huge screen at Lane Stadium. Class rings were handed out to the families of many of the slain students. Diplomas were to follow in smaller ceremonies Saturday. Less than a month ago, gunman Seung-Hui Cho wrought devastation on this campus with a hail of bullets. While Steger acknowledged the emotional wounds may never heal, he urged the graduates to move forward and celebrate life. "Please know that moving on - moving on is not the same as forgetting," he said. "We shall not forget. Yet, one senseless burst of violence - as horrible and hurtful as it is - will not turn us from our essence." As images of the slain students and faculty flashed on the stadium's screen, Steger and Provost Mark McNamee handed out the rings and received hugs in return. Cho's family will receive neither a ring nor a diploma. He killed himself as police closed in. At a ceremony Saturday morning for the engineering school, in which 11 students and three professors were slain, Dean Richard Benson was overwhelmed with emotion. "Forgive me," Benson said quietly, his voice breaking, as he paused to collect himself after speaking about Professor Kevin Granata, who was shot in a hallway as he tried to save students. Retired Army Gen. John Abizaid, former commander of U.S. forces in Iraq, praised the graduates Friday for their quiet courage, dignity and poise in dealing with the tragedy. Survivors have a responsibility to realize the dreams and aspirations of the slain, he said. "While we are saddened by the loss of those who cannot be here today, I believe that they would want this ceremony to commemorate both the tragedy of yesterday and the promise of tomorrow," he said. "I believe that they look down on this gathering with dignified pride." Students, parents and faculty rose to their feet and cheered as Abizaid thanked Steger for "holding things together" in a time of tragedy. In many ways, the evening ceremony seemed like most commencements. Grinning students jumped up and down and waved as their faces appeared on the stadium's screen while "Pomp and Circumstance" played. Students chanted "Let's go, Hokies!" and the stadium's stands twinkled with constant camera flashes from the graduates' proud family members. They decorated their mortarboards with "VT" and "Hi Mom." But the speeches, while marked by hope, were also laced with sorrow. "Rest assured, we will define ourselves by where we have been and where we will go," class historian Jennifer Weber said. Peter and Cathy Read returned to campus for the degree of their freshman daughter, Mary Karen Read, who was among those killed. They said they also returned to erase an unsettling image from the minds of their two youngest sons, Patrick, 4, and Brendan, 2. "They're a little concerned that the bad man's going to shoot them," Cathy Read said. "We can't let that idea grow in their heads." Earlier in the day, Steger and others addressed about half of the nearly 1,200 graduate students who received master's and doctorate degrees. Nine slain graduate students were awarded posthumous degrees in that ceremony. James Long, whose sister, Michelle, earned a degree in history, said students would not let the tragedy overshadow their celebration. "There are too many people here to celebrate five, six years of hard work to let one guy screw that up," he said. Associated Press writers Sue Lindsey and Vicki Smith contributed to this report. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. Copyright &copy 1998-2006 WHIZNEWS.COM All rights reserved EEO Public File Report
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/B/BLUE_ANGEL_CRASH?SITE=WHIZ&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	Zanesville - whiznews.com - Southeastern Ohio's Resource May 12, 8:12 AM EDT Blue Angels regroup for show after crash Buy AP Photo Reprints Audio Slideshow: Blue Angel Jet Crashes SEYMOUR JOHNSON AIR FORCE BASE, N.C. (AP) -- After 21 years as a U.S. Navy pilot, his career boasting nearly 900 aircraft carrier landings and air combat during the first Gulf War, tragedy comes as no surprise to Cmdr. Kevin Mannix. That includes last month's fatal crash of a fellow Blue Angels pilot during a show in South Carolina. But for Blue Angels pilots, whose demeanor is a key part of the job, the tragedy offers another opportunity to perform the mission they were first given six decades ago: promote the U.S. Navy and U.S. Marines Corps to the world. "Our ability to bounce back and do our mission is the same as every other squadron in the U.S. Navy or U.S. Marine Corps," said Mannix, minutes after practicing Thursday at Seymour Johnson Air Force Base in Goldsboro, where the team on Saturday was to perform its first show since the crash April 21. "The only difference is there's a lot more visibility on us because we are in the public eye," he said. "That's our job and that's what we do. I think a lot more media was focused our way on this specific mishap." Lt. Cmdr. Kevin Davis, 32, died when his No. 6 jet went down during the final minutes of a performance at the Marine Corps Air Station Beaufort in Beaufort, S.C. The Pittsfield, Mass., native was in his first year flying in formation with the team. An investigation into the cause of the crash, the Blue Angels' first since 1999 and the 26th fatality in the team's 60-year history, could take several months, according to the Navy. The Blue Angels typically fly their F/A-18A Hornets six days a week, but they stayed on the ground for nine days after the crash, canceling scheduled performances May 5 and May 6 at Offutt Air Force Base in Nebraska. Saturday's show was to feature only five jets. Lt. Cmdr. Craig Olson, 37, of Kirkland, Wash., replaced Davis a couple of weeks ago. Olson, who flew with the Blue Angels from 2003-2005, will practice with the team for a few more weeks before flying in a show, Mannix said. Mannix, the team's lead pilot in the No. 1 jet, said there was anxiety among the pilots before they flew for the first time after the crash. "We lost a brother, a great friend, a great American, actually," Lt. Cmdr. John Allison, who flies the No. 5 jet, told reporters Thursday after practice. "But we're trying to move forward and think about flying, you know, think about our jobs." During practice, the team flew in its traditional delta formation, the triangle lineup they were in when Davis crashed. Olson practiced as one of two solo members, hitting mach speeds and performing head-on near misses with Allison. Each year, the Navy considers up to about 70 pilots for the squadron. The final six pilots train constantly between January and March at El Centro Naval Air Facility, Calif., and are stationed at Pensacola Naval Air Station in Florida. The team is scheduled to fly 66 air shows this year at 35 locations across the country. The Blue Angels fly without the traditional G-suits, which most jet pilots wear to avoid blacking out during maneuvers that exert strong gravitational forces. The suits inflate and deflate air bladders around the lower body to keep blood in the brain and heart. The air bladders can cause a pilot to bump the control stick, so the Blue Angels learn to manage the G-forces by tensing their abdominal muscles. After a fatal crash, team members said, one of the best responses is to get back into the cockpit and grace the skies with twirls, climbs, dives and near misses at around 350 mph and only inches apart. "It feels good for the team to go back and do it," Mannix said Thursday, "including myself all the way down to the maintainers to do what we do for the American public, to get out there and show them we are resilient in what we do." Wings Over Wayne Air Show: &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. Copyright &copy 1998-2006 WHIZNEWS.COM All rights reserved EEO Public File Report
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/B/BLUE_ANGEL_CRASH?SITE=WHIZ&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	Zanesville - whiznews.com - Southeastern Ohio's Resource May 12, 8:12 AM EDT Blue Angels regroup for show after crash Buy AP Photo Reprints Audio Slideshow: Blue Angel Jet Crashes SEYMOUR JOHNSON AIR FORCE BASE, N.C. (AP) -- After 21 years as a U.S. Navy pilot, his career boasting nearly 900 aircraft carrier landings and air combat during the first Gulf War, tragedy comes as no surprise to Cmdr. Kevin Mannix. That includes last month's fatal crash of a fellow Blue Angels pilot during a show in South Carolina. But for Blue Angels pilots, whose demeanor is a key part of the job, the tragedy offers another opportunity to perform the mission they were first given six decades ago: promote the U.S. Navy and U.S. Marines Corps to the world. "Our ability to bounce back and do our mission is the same as every other squadron in the U.S. Navy or U.S. Marine Corps," said Mannix, minutes after practicing Thursday at Seymour Johnson Air Force Base in Goldsboro, where the team on Saturday was to perform its first show since the crash April 21. "The only difference is there's a lot more visibility on us because we are in the public eye," he said. "That's our job and that's what we do. I think a lot more media was focused our way on this specific mishap." Lt. Cmdr. Kevin Davis, 32, died when his No. 6 jet went down during the final minutes of a performance at the Marine Corps Air Station Beaufort in Beaufort, S.C. The Pittsfield, Mass., native was in his first year flying in formation with the team. An investigation into the cause of the crash, the Blue Angels' first since 1999 and the 26th fatality in the team's 60-year history, could take several months, according to the Navy. The Blue Angels typically fly their F/A-18A Hornets six days a week, but they stayed on the ground for nine days after the crash, canceling scheduled performances May 5 and May 6 at Offutt Air Force Base in Nebraska. Saturday's show was to feature only five jets. Lt. Cmdr. Craig Olson, 37, of Kirkland, Wash., replaced Davis a couple of weeks ago. Olson, who flew with the Blue Angels from 2003-2005, will practice with the team for a few more weeks before flying in a show, Mannix said. Mannix, the team's lead pilot in the No. 1 jet, said there was anxiety among the pilots before they flew for the first time after the crash. "We lost a brother, a great friend, a great American, actually," Lt. Cmdr. John Allison, who flies the No. 5 jet, told reporters Thursday after practice. "But we're trying to move forward and think about flying, you know, think about our jobs." During practice, the team flew in its traditional delta formation, the triangle lineup they were in when Davis crashed. Olson practiced as one of two solo members, hitting mach speeds and performing head-on near misses with Allison. Each year, the Navy considers up to about 70 pilots for the squadron. The final six pilots train constantly between January and March at El Centro Naval Air Facility, Calif., and are stationed at Pensacola Naval Air Station in Florida. The team is scheduled to fly 66 air shows this year at 35 locations across the country. The Blue Angels fly without the traditional G-suits, which most jet pilots wear to avoid blacking out during maneuvers that exert strong gravitational forces. The suits inflate and deflate air bladders around the lower body to keep blood in the brain and heart. The air bladders can cause a pilot to bump the control stick, so the Blue Angels learn to manage the G-forces by tensing their abdominal muscles. After a fatal crash, team members said, one of the best responses is to get back into the cockpit and grace the skies with twirls, climbs, dives and near misses at around 350 mph and only inches apart. "It feels good for the team to go back and do it," Mannix said Thursday, "including myself all the way down to the maintainers to do what we do for the American public, to get out there and show them we are resilient in what we do." Wings Over Wayne Air Show: &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. Copyright &copy 1998-2006 WHIZNEWS.COM All rights reserved EEO Public File Report
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/M/MARINES_HADITHA?SITE=WHIZ&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	Zanesville - whiznews.com - Southeastern Ohio's Resource May 12, 3:41 AM EDT Haditha hearing to enter 5th day Buy AP Photo Reprints Charging Document Against Staff Sgt. Frank D. Wuterich Interactive Look at Haditha Killings CAMP PENDLETON, Calif. (AP) -- For four days, Marines have testified in court that they saw no need to investigate a squad's 2005 killings of 24 civilians in the Iraqi town of Haditha. A Marine intelligence captain paid little heed to a flier from the Haditha town council that accused Marines of intentionally targeting civilians. A lieutenant dismissed a reporter's questions about alleged abuses, figuring they reflected bias against the Marines and President Bush. The preliminary hearing for Capt. Randy W. Stone was to continue Saturday with testimony expected from an operations officer and a major who distributed nearly $40,000 in U.S. government compensation to survivors of the attack. Stone is one of four officers charged with dereliction of duty for failing to investigate the killings. Three enlisted Marines are charged with unpremeditated murder in the biggest U.S. criminal case involving civilian deaths in the Iraq war. Capt. Jeffrey Dinsmore testified Friday that council members met with battalion commander Lt. Col. Jeffrey Chessani and company commander Capt. Lucas McConnell from the 3rd Battalion, 1st Marines on Nov. 27, 2005, eight days after a Marine squad killed 24 Iraqis including women and children in their homes after a deadly roadside bomb attack. Dinsmore said the council had circulated a flier demanding an investigation into the deaths and outlining allegations that Marines deliberately targeted civilians, but he dismissed the flier as propaganda. "The reality was then and the reality is now, you let loose Marines (in a combat environment) that are defending themselves against a hostile situation - they do not have the training nor do they have presence of mind to differentiate between civilians and insurgents," Dinsmore said. The attack occurred after a roadside bomb struck a Humvee convoy, killing one Marine and injuring two others. In the aftermath, Marines shot five Iraqis by a car and went house to house looking for insurgents, using grenades and machine guns to clear houses. Dinsmore's testimony echoed other witnesses who testified that the deaths of women and children were considered collateral damage in legitimate combat. When asked how many people in his battalion knew about the civilian deaths, Dinsmore said "it was common knowledge." He testified that regimental commanders had a "unique disinterest" in investigating the killings. The hearing is part of an Article 32 investigation, the military's equivalent to a grand jury proceeding. Maj. Thomas McCann, the investigating officer, will hear evidence and recommend whether the charges should go to trial. Marine Corps Iraq Investigations: &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. Copyright &copy 1998-2006 WHIZNEWS.COM All rights reserved EEO Public File Report
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/M/MARINES_HADITHA?SITE=WHIZ&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	Zanesville - whiznews.com - Southeastern Ohio's Resource May 12, 3:41 AM EDT Haditha hearing to enter 5th day Buy AP Photo Reprints Charging Document Against Staff Sgt. Frank D. Wuterich Interactive Look at Haditha Killings CAMP PENDLETON, Calif. (AP) -- For four days, Marines have testified in court that they saw no need to investigate a squad's 2005 killings of 24 civilians in the Iraqi town of Haditha. A Marine intelligence captain paid little heed to a flier from the Haditha town council that accused Marines of intentionally targeting civilians. A lieutenant dismissed a reporter's questions about alleged abuses, figuring they reflected bias against the Marines and President Bush. The preliminary hearing for Capt. Randy W. Stone was to continue Saturday with testimony expected from an operations officer and a major who distributed nearly $40,000 in U.S. government compensation to survivors of the attack. Stone is one of four officers charged with dereliction of duty for failing to investigate the killings. Three enlisted Marines are charged with unpremeditated murder in the biggest U.S. criminal case involving civilian deaths in the Iraq war. Capt. Jeffrey Dinsmore testified Friday that council members met with battalion commander Lt. Col. Jeffrey Chessani and company commander Capt. Lucas McConnell from the 3rd Battalion, 1st Marines on Nov. 27, 2005, eight days after a Marine squad killed 24 Iraqis including women and children in their homes after a deadly roadside bomb attack. Dinsmore said the council had circulated a flier demanding an investigation into the deaths and outlining allegations that Marines deliberately targeted civilians, but he dismissed the flier as propaganda. "The reality was then and the reality is now, you let loose Marines (in a combat environment) that are defending themselves against a hostile situation - they do not have the training nor do they have presence of mind to differentiate between civilians and insurgents," Dinsmore said. The attack occurred after a roadside bomb struck a Humvee convoy, killing one Marine and injuring two others. In the aftermath, Marines shot five Iraqis by a car and went house to house looking for insurgents, using grenades and machine guns to clear houses. Dinsmore's testimony echoed other witnesses who testified that the deaths of women and children were considered collateral damage in legitimate combat. When asked how many people in his battalion knew about the civilian deaths, Dinsmore said "it was common knowledge." He testified that regimental commanders had a "unique disinterest" in investigating the killings. The hearing is part of an Article 32 investigation, the military's equivalent to a grand jury proceeding. Maj. Thomas McCann, the investigating officer, will hear evidence and recommend whether the charges should go to trial. Marine Corps Iraq Investigations: &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. Copyright &copy 1998-2006 WHIZNEWS.COM All rights reserved EEO Public File Report
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/C/CONGRESSMAN_BRIBERY?SITE=WHIZ&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	Zanesville - whiznews.com - Southeastern Ohio's Resource May 12, 1:41 AM EDT New charges against former CIA official Buy AP Photo Reprints Indictment against contractor Kyle "Dusty" Foggo Indictment against contractor Randy Wilkes SAN DIEGO (AP) -- New charges have been filed alleging that a former top CIA official pushed a proposed $100 million government contract for his best friend in return for lavish vacations, private jet flights and a lucrative job offer. The indictment, returned Thursday, replaces charges brought in February against Kyle "Dusty" Foggo, who resigned from the spy agency a year ago, and Poway-based defense contractor Brent Wilkes. The charges grew from the bribery scandal that landed former U.S. Rep. Randy "Duke" Cunningham in prison. The pair now face 30 wide-ranging counts of fraud, conspiracy and money laundering. According to the new indictment, Foggo provided Wilkes with "sensitive, internal information related to our national security," including classified information, to help him prepare proposals for providing undercover flights for the CIA under the guise of a civil aviation company and armored vehicles for agency operations. Then, he pushed his CIA colleagues to hire Wilkes' companies without disclosing their friendship, prosecutors allege. In a June 2005 e-mail to the head of CIA air operations quoted in the indictment, Foggo offered to "use some 'EXDIR grease'" on Wilkes' behalf. Foggo was the agency's executive director at the time. Prosecutors say that in return, Wilkes offered to hire Foggo after he retired from government service. In the meantime, they say, he treated his friend to a Scottish golf trip during which they racked up a $44,000 hotel bill at the luxurious Pitcastle Estate. The initial indictment in February charged the pair with 11 counts of the same charges in connection with a $1.7 million water-supply contract Foggo allegedly helped win for one of Wilkes' companies while he was working as a logistics coordinator at a CIA supply hub overseas. Both men have pleaded not guilty to those charges. They face arraignment on the new charges Monday. Wilkes is charged in a separate indictment with conspiracy, bribery, money laundering and unlawful monetary transactions to Cunningham in return for government contracts. That indictment also was updated this week to include new charges against another defendant, Long Island mortgage banker John T. Michael, who was described as a co-conspirator in Cunningham's 2005 plea agreement. He has pleaded not guilty to one count of obstructing justice but now faces additional counts of money laundering and unlawful monetary transactions in connection with wire transfers allegedly used to pay off the mortgage on Cunningham's $2.5 million Rancho Santa Fe mansion. Calls seeking comment from attorneys for Foggo and Wilkes were not immediately returned Friday. Michael's attorney, Howard Frank, said he had not read the indictment and had no comment. The initial charges came 20 months after the FBI opened an investigation into Cunningham, who served on key House committees with oversight of government contracts. He pleaded guilty in November 2005 to taking $2.4 million in bribes from defense contractors and was sentenced to more than eight years in prison. Foggo and Wilkes played high school football together, and after graduating in 1972, they roomed together at San Diego State University, were best men at each other's weddings and named their sons after each other. Foggo, the former No. 3 official at the CIA, resigned from the spy agency after his house and office were raided by federal agents. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. Copyright &copy 1998-2006 WHIZNEWS.COM All rights reserved EEO Public File Report
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/C/CONGRESSMAN_BRIBERY?SITE=WHIZ&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	Zanesville - whiznews.com - Southeastern Ohio's Resource May 12, 1:41 AM EDT New charges against former CIA official Buy AP Photo Reprints Indictment against contractor Kyle "Dusty" Foggo Indictment against contractor Randy Wilkes SAN DIEGO (AP) -- New charges have been filed alleging that a former top CIA official pushed a proposed $100 million government contract for his best friend in return for lavish vacations, private jet flights and a lucrative job offer. The indictment, returned Thursday, replaces charges brought in February against Kyle "Dusty" Foggo, who resigned from the spy agency a year ago, and Poway-based defense contractor Brent Wilkes. The charges grew from the bribery scandal that landed former U.S. Rep. Randy "Duke" Cunningham in prison. The pair now face 30 wide-ranging counts of fraud, conspiracy and money laundering. According to the new indictment, Foggo provided Wilkes with "sensitive, internal information related to our national security," including classified information, to help him prepare proposals for providing undercover flights for the CIA under the guise of a civil aviation company and armored vehicles for agency operations. Then, he pushed his CIA colleagues to hire Wilkes' companies without disclosing their friendship, prosecutors allege. In a June 2005 e-mail to the head of CIA air operations quoted in the indictment, Foggo offered to "use some 'EXDIR grease'" on Wilkes' behalf. Foggo was the agency's executive director at the time. Prosecutors say that in return, Wilkes offered to hire Foggo after he retired from government service. In the meantime, they say, he treated his friend to a Scottish golf trip during which they racked up a $44,000 hotel bill at the luxurious Pitcastle Estate. The initial indictment in February charged the pair with 11 counts of the same charges in connection with a $1.7 million water-supply contract Foggo allegedly helped win for one of Wilkes' companies while he was working as a logistics coordinator at a CIA supply hub overseas. Both men have pleaded not guilty to those charges. They face arraignment on the new charges Monday. Wilkes is charged in a separate indictment with conspiracy, bribery, money laundering and unlawful monetary transactions to Cunningham in return for government contracts. That indictment also was updated this week to include new charges against another defendant, Long Island mortgage banker John T. Michael, who was described as a co-conspirator in Cunningham's 2005 plea agreement. He has pleaded not guilty to one count of obstructing justice but now faces additional counts of money laundering and unlawful monetary transactions in connection with wire transfers allegedly used to pay off the mortgage on Cunningham's $2.5 million Rancho Santa Fe mansion. Calls seeking comment from attorneys for Foggo and Wilkes were not immediately returned Friday. Michael's attorney, Howard Frank, said he had not read the indictment and had no comment. The initial charges came 20 months after the FBI opened an investigation into Cunningham, who served on key House committees with oversight of government contracts. He pleaded guilty in November 2005 to taking $2.4 million in bribes from defense contractors and was sentenced to more than eight years in prison. Foggo and Wilkes played high school football together, and after graduating in 1972, they roomed together at San Diego State University, were best men at each other's weddings and named their sons after each other. Foggo, the former No. 3 official at the CIA, resigned from the spy agency after his house and office were raided by federal agents. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. Copyright &copy 1998-2006 WHIZNEWS.COM All rights reserved EEO Public File Report
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/W/WILDFIRES?SITE=WHIZ&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	Zanesville - whiznews.com - Southeastern Ohio's Resource May 12, 9:18 AM EDT Calif. island survives wildfire scare AP Photo/LANCE CPL RYAN L TOMLINSON Firefighters Get Upperhand on Island Blaze Photos: Wildfires Across the U.S. Photos: Wildfire Burns in California Charges Against Crew Boss Calif. island survives wildfire scare 2 kids charged in Ga. wildfires Ga. wildfire called 'a long-term battle' Buy AP Photo Reprints AVALON, Calif. (AP) -- Residents have started returning to this picturesque town off the Southern California coast after firefighters and favorable weather conditions halted a wildfire's advance into Catalina Island's most populated area. The island remained quiet Friday as nearly 4,000 evacuated residents began heading back to inspect their homes and apartments and reopen businesses that largely cater to tourists. "I thought it would be a melted ball of plastic," said Jim Gilligan, who reached his workplace, Dave Zeller Construction, on a golf cart. He was pleasantly surprised to find the building still standing - especially with charred ground 30 feet from the door. Visitors were still being told to stay away. An estimated 10,000 tourists take ferries from the mainland to the island each day to lounge on the beach, play golf or take inland tours. About 700 firefighters continued to battle the blaze, which started Thursday afternoon and burned about 4,200 acres - about 6 of the island's 76 squares miles. Containment was estimated at 35 percent. They were aided by a night with temperatures in the 50s and humidity higher than 70 percent - far different from the gusty, dry conditions of the fire's first day. Avalon Fire Chief Steven Hoefs said the cause of the fire remained under investigation but it appeared to have been sparked as contractors worked on antennas at a radio station in the island's interior. Only one home and six industrial businesses burned and no one was seriously injured, giving firefighters their latest in a string of victories. About 50 miles away on the mainland, crews just days earlier beat back flames in Los Angeles' sprawling Griffith Park that singed a neighborhood of multimillion-dollar homes. That was the third menacing fire in the Hollywood Hills this spring, one of the driest rainy seasons on record. Just 2 inches have fallen on Catalina this year. Environmentalists said it was too early to tell how the blaze affected the island's ecosystem, home to rare animal and plant life, including the Catalina Island fox. But four bald eaglets that hatched earlier this year without human help were unharmed, said Bob Rhein, a spokesman for the Catalina Island Conservancy, which owns most of the island. The birds are a milestone in the reintroduction of the species, which was wiped out on the island decades ago by chemical contamination. Avalon Mayor Robert Kennedy credited the firefighting success to quick-arriving reinforcements from the mainland and training that included dry runs with military hovercraft and helicopter drops. Across the country, firefighters battled a wildfire in Georgia and northern Florida that burned 179,940 acres - or 281 square miles - since a lightning strike ignited it a week ago. The fire, which started last Saturday in the middle of the Okefenokee National Wildlife Refuge, took just six days to grow larger than a wildfire that has burned 116,480 acres of Georgia forest and swampland in more than three weeks. In Georgia, the fire posed a potential threat to the city of Fargo, where 380 people live about eight miles west of the Okefenokee Swamp. Occupants of about 15 homes in a subdivision were asked to leave as a precaution because of the smoke and ash. About 570 homes in northern Columbia County, Fla., were evacuated overnight Thursday, and heavy smoke blanketed the area. A haze was seen in Miami, more than 300 miles away. To the north, a wildfire grew to nearly 86 square miles in northeastern Minnesota and across the border into Canada, cutting power lines to many resorts and lake homes. Dozens of houses and cabins have burned, and about 300 people had checked in at an evacuation center. The fire, fed by drought-parched forest, has destroyed 134 structures, including 62 houses and cabins. Crews on Friday held the fire around most of its perimeter, and favorable weather was predicted for Saturday. Associated Press writers Jeff Wilson and Robert Jablon in Los Angeles, Peter Prengaman in Long Beach, Andrew Glazer in Avalon, Russ Bynum in Folkston, Ga., and Amy Forliti in Grand Marais, Minn., contributed to this report. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. Copyright &copy 1998-2006 WHIZNEWS.COM All rights reserved EEO Public File Report
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/W/WILDFIRES?SITE=WHIZ&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	Zanesville - whiznews.com - Southeastern Ohio's Resource May 12, 9:18 AM EDT Calif. island survives wildfire scare AP Photo/LANCE CPL RYAN L TOMLINSON Firefighters Get Upperhand on Island Blaze Photos: Wildfires Across the U.S. Photos: Wildfire Burns in California Charges Against Crew Boss Calif. island survives wildfire scare 2 kids charged in Ga. wildfires Ga. wildfire called 'a long-term battle' Buy AP Photo Reprints AVALON, Calif. (AP) -- Residents have started returning to this picturesque town off the Southern California coast after firefighters and favorable weather conditions halted a wildfire's advance into Catalina Island's most populated area. The island remained quiet Friday as nearly 4,000 evacuated residents began heading back to inspect their homes and apartments and reopen businesses that largely cater to tourists. "I thought it would be a melted ball of plastic," said Jim Gilligan, who reached his workplace, Dave Zeller Construction, on a golf cart. He was pleasantly surprised to find the building still standing - especially with charred ground 30 feet from the door. Visitors were still being told to stay away. An estimated 10,000 tourists take ferries from the mainland to the island each day to lounge on the beach, play golf or take inland tours. About 700 firefighters continued to battle the blaze, which started Thursday afternoon and burned about 4,200 acres - about 6 of the island's 76 squares miles. Containment was estimated at 35 percent. They were aided by a night with temperatures in the 50s and humidity higher than 70 percent - far different from the gusty, dry conditions of the fire's first day. Avalon Fire Chief Steven Hoefs said the cause of the fire remained under investigation but it appeared to have been sparked as contractors worked on antennas at a radio station in the island's interior. Only one home and six industrial businesses burned and no one was seriously injured, giving firefighters their latest in a string of victories. About 50 miles away on the mainland, crews just days earlier beat back flames in Los Angeles' sprawling Griffith Park that singed a neighborhood of multimillion-dollar homes. That was the third menacing fire in the Hollywood Hills this spring, one of the driest rainy seasons on record. Just 2 inches have fallen on Catalina this year. Environmentalists said it was too early to tell how the blaze affected the island's ecosystem, home to rare animal and plant life, including the Catalina Island fox. But four bald eaglets that hatched earlier this year without human help were unharmed, said Bob Rhein, a spokesman for the Catalina Island Conservancy, which owns most of the island. The birds are a milestone in the reintroduction of the species, which was wiped out on the island decades ago by chemical contamination. Avalon Mayor Robert Kennedy credited the firefighting success to quick-arriving reinforcements from the mainland and training that included dry runs with military hovercraft and helicopter drops. Across the country, firefighters battled a wildfire in Georgia and northern Florida that burned 179,940 acres - or 281 square miles - since a lightning strike ignited it a week ago. The fire, which started last Saturday in the middle of the Okefenokee National Wildlife Refuge, took just six days to grow larger than a wildfire that has burned 116,480 acres of Georgia forest and swampland in more than three weeks. In Georgia, the fire posed a potential threat to the city of Fargo, where 380 people live about eight miles west of the Okefenokee Swamp. Occupants of about 15 homes in a subdivision were asked to leave as a precaution because of the smoke and ash. About 570 homes in northern Columbia County, Fla., were evacuated overnight Thursday, and heavy smoke blanketed the area. A haze was seen in Miami, more than 300 miles away. To the north, a wildfire grew to nearly 86 square miles in northeastern Minnesota and across the border into Canada, cutting power lines to many resorts and lake homes. Dozens of houses and cabins have burned, and about 300 people had checked in at an evacuation center. The fire, fed by drought-parched forest, has destroyed 134 structures, including 62 houses and cabins. Crews on Friday held the fire around most of its perimeter, and favorable weather was predicted for Saturday. Associated Press writers Jeff Wilson and Robert Jablon in Los Angeles, Peter Prengaman in Long Beach, Andrew Glazer in Avalon, Russ Bynum in Folkston, Ga., and Amy Forliti in Grand Marais, Minn., contributed to this report. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. Copyright &copy 1998-2006 WHIZNEWS.COM All rights reserved EEO Public File Report
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/F/FAKED_RETARDATION?SITE=WHIZ&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	Zanesville - whiznews.com - Southeastern Ohio's Resource May 12, 12:11 AM EDT Prison for man who faked retardation Buy AP Photo Reprints TACOMA, Wash. (AP) -- A Vancouver man was sentenced Friday to 13 months in prison for pretending to be mentally retarded in order to claim disability benefits. Pete J. Costello, 28, pleaded guilty in February to conspiracy to defraud the government and to Social Security fraud. He began receiving disability benefits when he was 8. He was ordered to repay the $59,226 he has received since turning 18. Costello, who cannot read or write, dictated a letter to his public defender that was submitted to the judge before sentencing and filed in court. "I know that it was wrong to 'act like a child' in the Social Security office when that is not how I really am," the letter said. "I feel very bad about this and want to do everything I can to pay this money back." Costello's mother, Rosie Costello, 46, who also pleaded guilty, is to be sentenced Thursday for coaching her son and daughter to feign mental retardation. Authorities have not found the daughter. Pete Costello continued to fake retardation into his mid-20s - picking at his face, slouching and appearing uncommunicative in meetings with Social Security officials. The scheme came to light last year after he got a traffic ticket in Vancouver, then was videotaped acting normally when he contested the ticket in court. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. Copyright &copy 1998-2006 WHIZNEWS.COM All rights reserved EEO Public File Report
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/F/FAKED_RETARDATION?SITE=WHIZ&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	Zanesville - whiznews.com - Southeastern Ohio's Resource May 12, 12:11 AM EDT Prison for man who faked retardation Buy AP Photo Reprints TACOMA, Wash. (AP) -- A Vancouver man was sentenced Friday to 13 months in prison for pretending to be mentally retarded in order to claim disability benefits. Pete J. Costello, 28, pleaded guilty in February to conspiracy to defraud the government and to Social Security fraud. He began receiving disability benefits when he was 8. He was ordered to repay the $59,226 he has received since turning 18. Costello, who cannot read or write, dictated a letter to his public defender that was submitted to the judge before sentencing and filed in court. "I know that it was wrong to 'act like a child' in the Social Security office when that is not how I really am," the letter said. "I feel very bad about this and want to do everything I can to pay this money back." Costello's mother, Rosie Costello, 46, who also pleaded guilty, is to be sentenced Thursday for coaching her son and daughter to feign mental retardation. Authorities have not found the daughter. Pete Costello continued to fake retardation into his mid-20s - picking at his face, slouching and appearing uncommunicative in meetings with Social Security officials. The scheme came to light last year after he got a traffic ticket in Vancouver, then was videotaped acting normally when he contested the ticket in court. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. Copyright &copy 1998-2006 WHIZNEWS.COM All rights reserved EEO Public File Report
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/M/MISSOURI_FLOODING?SITE=WHIZ&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	Zanesville - whiznews.com - Southeastern Ohio's Resource May 11, 10:59 PM EDT Some fears ease in Mo. as rivers crest Farmer: Flood 'Very Financially Strapping' Some fears ease in Mo. as rivers crest Evacuations, sandbagging in Missouri Buy AP Photo Reprints WOOLDRIDGE, Mo. (AP) -- Levee breaks along the Missouri River swamped homes, farms, highways and railroad tracks as floodwaters that have inundated the region were expected to peak in some spots this weekend. It appeared many areas would fare much better than had been feared days earlier, however. Near-record flood levels dropped in some places but rose in northwest and central Missouri, as worried residents removed valuables from their homes and filled sandbags to protect river communities. A barge that floated loose in Glasgow was captured by the state water patrol about 60 road miles downstream near Hartsburg, officials said. The water patrol planned to tie it up until the waters recede, Highway Patrol Capt. Tim Hull said. Along the Mississippi River, surging water and debris threatened to knock loose a docked, four-story pleasure barge and slam it into a bridge. Three of the four chains holding it in place broke, but U.S. Coast Guard crews and a private tug boat company were able to secure it. Rivers breached or topped dozens of levees across the state, officials said. No serious injuries or deaths had been reported in the flooding. The storms that raised river levels also generated the tornadoes that killed 12 people in Kansas last weekend. Although the river crests were lower than forecast in many areas, residents remained anxious. Many were here for the 1993 floods, among the most costly in U.S. history. At the State Emergency Operations Center, Gov. Matt Blunt said damage assessment teams were being dispatched to 17 counties, and about 100 Missouri National Guard members had been deployed. He said the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers has prepared about 1.2 million sandbags. "We were fortunate that a majority of counties made a lot of improvements since '93," National Guard Col. Glenn Hagler said. The rain-swollen rivers and streams that make up the Missouri River system are causing damage as the water flows east toward St. Louis, where the Missouri River meets the Mississippi, said Suzanne Fortin, a meteorologist with the National Weather Service. In Jefferson City, the Missouri River was expected to crest Sunday at 8.7 feet above flood stage, which could cause flooding at the airport and other low-lying areas below the bluff where the state Capitol sits. Officials in Chariton County, which includes Brunswick, said the Grand River crested Friday and the levees held. People were sandbagging some low-lying spots. Some basements had water in them, but no serious damage or injuries were reported. Farmers in Wooldridge, a tiny town about 15 miles west of Columbia, prevented the state Department of Conservation from allowing floodwaters to pour into low-lying land owned by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and managed by the department. Mike Schroer, the department's wildlife regional supervisor, said the agency wanted to let in only a small amount of water into a wetland habitat. Levees had cut the area off from the Missouri River, Schroer said, and water needed to preserve the wetlands can only be let in when the river is high. He estimated that 5 acres of the 4,000-acre river bottom would have been flooded. But town residents stopped water from entering the pipe about 15 minutes after it was opened. John Clay, whose farm is protected by the levee, said two area residents were standing guard to prevent state officials from reopening it. "This could not be acceptable, and there can be no good reason to do this at this point in time with the river flooding," he said. Schroer said the state was not pursuing charges against the residents but instead hoped to hold a meeting in coming weeks so all parties know what to expect when the situation arises again. "It's just a miscommunication," he said. Associated Press writers Heather Hollingsworth in Kansas City and Jim Salter in St. Louis, Mo., contributed to this report. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. Copyright &copy 1998-2006 WHIZNEWS.COM All rights reserved EEO Public File Report
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/M/MISSOURI_FLOODING?SITE=WHIZ&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	Zanesville - whiznews.com - Southeastern Ohio's Resource May 11, 10:59 PM EDT Some fears ease in Mo. as rivers crest Farmer: Flood 'Very Financially Strapping' Some fears ease in Mo. as rivers crest Evacuations, sandbagging in Missouri Buy AP Photo Reprints WOOLDRIDGE, Mo. (AP) -- Levee breaks along the Missouri River swamped homes, farms, highways and railroad tracks as floodwaters that have inundated the region were expected to peak in some spots this weekend. It appeared many areas would fare much better than had been feared days earlier, however. Near-record flood levels dropped in some places but rose in northwest and central Missouri, as worried residents removed valuables from their homes and filled sandbags to protect river communities. A barge that floated loose in Glasgow was captured by the state water patrol about 60 road miles downstream near Hartsburg, officials said. The water patrol planned to tie it up until the waters recede, Highway Patrol Capt. Tim Hull said. Along the Mississippi River, surging water and debris threatened to knock loose a docked, four-story pleasure barge and slam it into a bridge. Three of the four chains holding it in place broke, but U.S. Coast Guard crews and a private tug boat company were able to secure it. Rivers breached or topped dozens of levees across the state, officials said. No serious injuries or deaths had been reported in the flooding. The storms that raised river levels also generated the tornadoes that killed 12 people in Kansas last weekend. Although the river crests were lower than forecast in many areas, residents remained anxious. Many were here for the 1993 floods, among the most costly in U.S. history. At the State Emergency Operations Center, Gov. Matt Blunt said damage assessment teams were being dispatched to 17 counties, and about 100 Missouri National Guard members had been deployed. He said the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers has prepared about 1.2 million sandbags. "We were fortunate that a majority of counties made a lot of improvements since '93," National Guard Col. Glenn Hagler said. The rain-swollen rivers and streams that make up the Missouri River system are causing damage as the water flows east toward St. Louis, where the Missouri River meets the Mississippi, said Suzanne Fortin, a meteorologist with the National Weather Service. In Jefferson City, the Missouri River was expected to crest Sunday at 8.7 feet above flood stage, which could cause flooding at the airport and other low-lying areas below the bluff where the state Capitol sits. Officials in Chariton County, which includes Brunswick, said the Grand River crested Friday and the levees held. People were sandbagging some low-lying spots. Some basements had water in them, but no serious damage or injuries were reported. Farmers in Wooldridge, a tiny town about 15 miles west of Columbia, prevented the state Department of Conservation from allowing floodwaters to pour into low-lying land owned by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and managed by the department. Mike Schroer, the department's wildlife regional supervisor, said the agency wanted to let in only a small amount of water into a wetland habitat. Levees had cut the area off from the Missouri River, Schroer said, and water needed to preserve the wetlands can only be let in when the river is high. He estimated that 5 acres of the 4,000-acre river bottom would have been flooded. But town residents stopped water from entering the pipe about 15 minutes after it was opened. John Clay, whose farm is protected by the levee, said two area residents were standing guard to prevent state officials from reopening it. "This could not be acceptable, and there can be no good reason to do this at this point in time with the river flooding," he said. Schroer said the state was not pursuing charges against the residents but instead hoped to hold a meeting in coming weeks so all parties know what to expect when the situation arises again. "It's just a miscommunication," he said. Associated Press writers Heather Hollingsworth in Kansas City and Jim Salter in St. Louis, Mo., contributed to this report. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. Copyright &copy 1998-2006 WHIZNEWS.COM All rights reserved EEO Public File Report
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/J/JAMESTOWN_ANNIVERSARY?SITE=WHIZ&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	Zanesville - whiznews.com - Southeastern Ohio's Resource May 12, 3:45 AM EDT Boat to retrace voyage from Jamestown Buy AP Photo Reprints Interpreters Bring Jamestown History to Life JAMESTOWN, Va. (AP) -- The debuts of a stamp and four orchestral pieces were bookends of the opening day of the commemoration for the 400th anniversary of the founding of America's first permanent English settlement. On Saturday, the festivities were to take to the water. A replica of the small boat that settler John Smith used to explore the Chesapeake Bay and its tributaries will set sail to retrace Smith's voyage. The shallop will depart from Historic Jamestowne, the site on the James River where the colonists built a triangular fort after they arrived in May 1607. Archaeologists found the fort's remains, long thought to have been washed away, in the mid-1990s. Activities during the three-day commemoration were taking place at Historic Jamestowne as well as the nearby Jamestown Settlement museum, which has a replica of the fort, and at Anniversary Park, a former campground across from the museum. "It's a special weekend, a once-in-a-lifetime thing," said Christine White, a third-grade teacher from Williamsburg who was especially interested in Jamestown because it figures in her lesson plans on early explorers. The weekend includes musical performances, demonstrations by glassblowers and other artisans, fireworks and a Sunday appearance by President Bush. On Saturday, a crew of a dozen aboard the shallop were to start a 1,500-mile trip that will inaugurate the Capt. John Smith Chesapeake National Historic Trail, the first all-water national historic trail established by the federal government. The nonprofit Sultana Projects Inc. of Chestertown, Md., crafted the 28-foot open boat. Smith launched his exploration in 1608, and the trip yielded a comprehensive map that guided English settlers for nearly a century. More than 100 white tents and several stages have been set up around the Jamestown venues, giving them the feel of a state fair. Kevin Brown, a Pamunkey Indian, stood on a stage in one tent Friday, carving a man's face into a dance totem made of plaster that he eventually will cast in bronze. The features on the face are a blend of his own and those of various family members. The nearly 6-foot pole rises from a three-sided base that recalls the settlers' fort. "It's a statement that the Indians have survived," Brown said. Events got under way Friday with history lovers standing in line for more than hour to buy a newly issued Jamestown postage stamp that is three-sided, like James Fort, and features a painting of the colonists' three ships. In the evening, the Virginia Symphony and Richmond Symphony orchestras combined for the first time to perform the world premiers of four pieces written for the commemoration, including a number called "Jamestown Hymn." Virginia has been recognizing major Jamestown anniversaries every 50 years, but organizers have been careful to call the 2007 event a "commemoration" instead of a celebration. With the arrival of the English, native Indian tribes eventually were pushed off their lands, and slavery in America is traced to Jamestown, where the first Africans in the country arrived in 1619. This year's anniversary is the first to focus on all three of those cultures. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. Copyright &copy 1998-2006 WHIZNEWS.COM All rights reserved EEO Public File Report
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/J/JAMESTOWN_ANNIVERSARY?SITE=WHIZ&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	Zanesville - whiznews.com - Southeastern Ohio's Resource May 12, 3:45 AM EDT Boat to retrace voyage from Jamestown Buy AP Photo Reprints Interpreters Bring Jamestown History to Life JAMESTOWN, Va. (AP) -- The debuts of a stamp and four orchestral pieces were bookends of the opening day of the commemoration for the 400th anniversary of the founding of America's first permanent English settlement. On Saturday, the festivities were to take to the water. A replica of the small boat that settler John Smith used to explore the Chesapeake Bay and its tributaries will set sail to retrace Smith's voyage. The shallop will depart from Historic Jamestowne, the site on the James River where the colonists built a triangular fort after they arrived in May 1607. Archaeologists found the fort's remains, long thought to have been washed away, in the mid-1990s. Activities during the three-day commemoration were taking place at Historic Jamestowne as well as the nearby Jamestown Settlement museum, which has a replica of the fort, and at Anniversary Park, a former campground across from the museum. "It's a special weekend, a once-in-a-lifetime thing," said Christine White, a third-grade teacher from Williamsburg who was especially interested in Jamestown because it figures in her lesson plans on early explorers. The weekend includes musical performances, demonstrations by glassblowers and other artisans, fireworks and a Sunday appearance by President Bush. On Saturday, a crew of a dozen aboard the shallop were to start a 1,500-mile trip that will inaugurate the Capt. John Smith Chesapeake National Historic Trail, the first all-water national historic trail established by the federal government. The nonprofit Sultana Projects Inc. of Chestertown, Md., crafted the 28-foot open boat. Smith launched his exploration in 1608, and the trip yielded a comprehensive map that guided English settlers for nearly a century. More than 100 white tents and several stages have been set up around the Jamestown venues, giving them the feel of a state fair. Kevin Brown, a Pamunkey Indian, stood on a stage in one tent Friday, carving a man's face into a dance totem made of plaster that he eventually will cast in bronze. The features on the face are a blend of his own and those of various family members. The nearly 6-foot pole rises from a three-sided base that recalls the settlers' fort. "It's a statement that the Indians have survived," Brown said. Events got under way Friday with history lovers standing in line for more than hour to buy a newly issued Jamestown postage stamp that is three-sided, like James Fort, and features a painting of the colonists' three ships. In the evening, the Virginia Symphony and Richmond Symphony orchestras combined for the first time to perform the world premiers of four pieces written for the commemoration, including a number called "Jamestown Hymn." Virginia has been recognizing major Jamestown anniversaries every 50 years, but organizers have been careful to call the 2007 event a "commemoration" instead of a celebration. With the arrival of the English, native Indian tribes eventually were pushed off their lands, and slavery in America is traced to Jamestown, where the first Africans in the country arrived in 1619. This year's anniversary is the first to focus on all three of those cultures. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. Copyright &copy 1998-2006 WHIZNEWS.COM All rights reserved EEO Public File Report
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/B/BOY_IN_KENNEL?SITE=WHIZ&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	Zanesville - whiznews.com - Southeastern Ohio's Resource May 12, 3:30 AM EDT Woman gets prison for caging grandson Buy AP Photo Reprints BRIGHTON, Colo. (AP) -- A 62-year-old woman was sentenced to three years in prison for locking her grandson inside a dog kennel every night for three years while she went to work as a jail counselor. Under a plea bargain, June Candelario was also sentenced Friday to one year of probation. "I cannot imagine any society that would say it is just and fair to inflict this harm on a child that cannot protect himself," Adams County District Court Judge Harlan Bockman said. Candelario, a former state trooper, put the boy in a 4 foot by 3 foot kennel each day at 4 p.m. and let him out hours later when she returned from work, authorities said. She pleaded guilty to one felony count of conspiracy to commit child abuse that resulted in bodily harm and a misdemeanor count of child abuse. The boy was 10 when the abuse began and 13 when Candelario was arrested last May. "I felt like I was in a prison in my home," said a letter from the boy, which was read in court. "When I was in the cage, I felt scared and lonely and that I was not loved by my grandma." The boy's foster mother said the boy refused to attend sentencing because he remains afraid of Candelario. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. Copyright &copy 1998-2006 WHIZNEWS.COM All rights reserved EEO Public File Report
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/B/BOY_IN_KENNEL?SITE=WHIZ&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	Zanesville - whiznews.com - Southeastern Ohio's Resource May 12, 3:30 AM EDT Woman gets prison for caging grandson Buy AP Photo Reprints BRIGHTON, Colo. (AP) -- A 62-year-old woman was sentenced to three years in prison for locking her grandson inside a dog kennel every night for three years while she went to work as a jail counselor. Under a plea bargain, June Candelario was also sentenced Friday to one year of probation. "I cannot imagine any society that would say it is just and fair to inflict this harm on a child that cannot protect himself," Adams County District Court Judge Harlan Bockman said. Candelario, a former state trooper, put the boy in a 4 foot by 3 foot kennel each day at 4 p.m. and let him out hours later when she returned from work, authorities said. She pleaded guilty to one felony count of conspiracy to commit child abuse that resulted in bodily harm and a misdemeanor count of child abuse. The boy was 10 when the abuse began and 13 when Candelario was arrested last May. "I felt like I was in a prison in my home," said a letter from the boy, which was read in court. "When I was in the cage, I felt scared and lonely and that I was not loved by my grandma." The boy's foster mother said the boy refused to attend sentencing because he remains afraid of Candelario. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. Copyright &copy 1998-2006 WHIZNEWS.COM All rights reserved EEO Public File Report
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/P/PARLOR_RAIDS?SITE=WHIZ&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	Zanesville - whiznews.com - Southeastern Ohio's Resource May 12, 6:19 AM EDT 4 arrested in K.C. prostitution raids Buy AP Photo Reprints KANSAS CITY, Mo. (AP) -- Federal authorities charged four people with bringing women from China to the Kansas City area for prostitution after a series of raids at businesses billed as massage parlors. The charges were brought Friday, a day after authorities say they rescued from 15 women from 12 businesses in Johnson County, Kan., mostly at strip malls. The businesses had drawn the attention of neighbors for some time, investigators said. Those charged were Ling Xu, 45, Zhong Yan Liu, 35, Cheng Tang, 21, all Chinese citizens living in Overland Park, Kan., and Hongmei Madole, 31, a native of China married to a U.S. citizen and living in Olathe, Kan. They were charged with transporting people across state lines and national borders for the purpose of prostitution. The women are not facing charges, FBI spokesman Jeff Lanza said. The defendants made an initial appearance Friday afternoon in U.S. District Court in Kansas City and asked the court to appoint attorneys. Bond for Madole was set at $50,000. U.S. Magistrate Judge Robert Larsen set a hearing for Tuesday to determine bond for the other three defendants and to decide if the case will be sent to a grand jury. A criminal complaint filed Friday alleges that the defendants brought women across national borders and state lines, including into Kansas through Missouri, for prostitution for more than a year. U.S. Attorney John F. Wood said investigators believe the massage parlors were "in fact, nothing more than a front for highly profitable and thriving prostitution organizations." He said an 18-month investigation involving local, state and federal authorities found that the women were brought from China into the United States, primarily San Francisco, Los Angeles and New York City. They then flew to Kansas City and were driven to Johnson County, Kan., Wood said. An undercover officer visited three of the businesses several times between January and May and was solicited to engage in sexual acts with women there each time, according to an affidavit filed with the criminal complaint. The affidavit says investigators also searched trash at two of the businesses and found evidence of airline flights to Kansas City from Los Angeles, Phoenix, New York City and Las Vegas. The defendants also were found to have wired a total of $83,300 to China, according to the affidavit. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. Copyright &copy 1998-2006 WHIZNEWS.COM All rights reserved EEO Public File Report
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/P/PARLOR_RAIDS?SITE=WHIZ&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	Zanesville - whiznews.com - Southeastern Ohio's Resource May 12, 6:19 AM EDT 4 arrested in K.C. prostitution raids Buy AP Photo Reprints KANSAS CITY, Mo. (AP) -- Federal authorities charged four people with bringing women from China to the Kansas City area for prostitution after a series of raids at businesses billed as massage parlors. The charges were brought Friday, a day after authorities say they rescued from 15 women from 12 businesses in Johnson County, Kan., mostly at strip malls. The businesses had drawn the attention of neighbors for some time, investigators said. Those charged were Ling Xu, 45, Zhong Yan Liu, 35, Cheng Tang, 21, all Chinese citizens living in Overland Park, Kan., and Hongmei Madole, 31, a native of China married to a U.S. citizen and living in Olathe, Kan. They were charged with transporting people across state lines and national borders for the purpose of prostitution. The women are not facing charges, FBI spokesman Jeff Lanza said. The defendants made an initial appearance Friday afternoon in U.S. District Court in Kansas City and asked the court to appoint attorneys. Bond for Madole was set at $50,000. U.S. Magistrate Judge Robert Larsen set a hearing for Tuesday to determine bond for the other three defendants and to decide if the case will be sent to a grand jury. A criminal complaint filed Friday alleges that the defendants brought women across national borders and state lines, including into Kansas through Missouri, for prostitution for more than a year. U.S. Attorney John F. Wood said investigators believe the massage parlors were "in fact, nothing more than a front for highly profitable and thriving prostitution organizations." He said an 18-month investigation involving local, state and federal authorities found that the women were brought from China into the United States, primarily San Francisco, Los Angeles and New York City. They then flew to Kansas City and were driven to Johnson County, Kan., Wood said. An undercover officer visited three of the businesses several times between January and May and was solicited to engage in sexual acts with women there each time, according to an affidavit filed with the criminal complaint. The affidavit says investigators also searched trash at two of the businesses and found evidence of airline flights to Kansas City from Los Angeles, Phoenix, New York City and Las Vegas. The defendants also were found to have wired a total of $83,300 to China, according to the affidavit. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. Copyright &copy 1998-2006 WHIZNEWS.COM All rights reserved EEO Public File Report
