http://www.komotv.com/news/health/7419176.html	Study links lung scarring disease to post-Sept. 11 WTC work | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Health Study links lung scarring disease to post-Sept. 11 WTC work Story Published: May 9, 2007 at 9:38 AM PDT Story Updated: May 9, 2007 at 9:38 AM PDT NEW YORK (AP) - Rescue workers and firefighters contracted a serious lung-scarring disease called sarcoidosis at a much higher rate after the Sept. 11 attacks than before, said a study that is the first to link the disease to exposure to toxic dust at ground zero. The study, published by nine doctors including the medical officer monitoring city firefighters, Dr. David Prezant, found that firefighters and rescue workers contracted sarcoidosis in the year after Sept. 11, 2001, at a rate more than five times higher than the years before the attacks. Unlike previous studies that have linked exposure to the toxic dust cloud that enveloped lower Manhattan after the World Trade Center's collapse to many different respiratory illnesses, this study zeros in on one disease. Sarcoidosis, which can be life-threatening, causes an inflammation in the lungs that deposits tiny cells in the organs, leaving scar tissues that damage them. Several rescue workers and others exposed to trade center dust have claimed they contracted the disease from their work at ground zero. The study compared the rates of contracting sarcoidosis among fire department employees for 15 years before Sept. 11 and for five years after it. It said firefighters who showed symptoms of the disease on chest X-rays underwent more intensive exams. After the trade center attack, 26 firefighters were diagnosed with sarcoidosis, the study found. Thirteen were diagnosed in the first year after the attacks, which represents a rate of 86 per 100,000. In the 15 years before the attack, the rate of sarcoidosis was 15 per 100,0000, the study found. None of the 26 rescue workers, who are in their 30s and 40s, has died of the disease, and about 10 have improved or recovered since their diagnoses, the study found. Two of the firefighters were former smokers, the study found. The study was published this week in the May issue of CHEST Physician, a journal published by the American College of Chest Physicians. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Passenger killed on Interstate 5 by loose truck wheels Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/health/7393916.html	Farmed fish fed contaminated material linked to pet food recall | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Health Farmed fish fed contaminated material linked to pet food recall Story Published: May 8, 2007 at 11:53 AM PDT Story Updated: May 8, 2007 at 11:53 AM PDT WASHINGTON (AP) - Farmed fish were fed meal spiked with an industrial chemical linked to the ongoing recall of pet foods, though the contamination level was probably too low to pose a danger to anyone who may have eaten the fish, federal health officials said Tuesday. The Canadian-made meal included what was purported to be wheat gluten, a protein source, imported from China. The material was actually wheat flour spiked by the chemical melamine and related, nitrogen-rich compounds to make it appear more protein rich than it was, officials said. After pigs and chickens, the farmed fish mark the third food animal given contaminated feed. The level of contamination is expected to be too low to pose any danger to human health, said Dr. David Acheson, the FDA's assistant commissioner for food protection. It wasn't immediately clear if any of the farmed fish entered the food supply. However, Acheson said at least one firm's fish were still too young and small to be sold. Investigators were visiting other U.S. aquaculture farms that used the contaminated feed. Melamine, a chemical found in plastics and pesticides and not approved for use in pet or human in the U.S., contaminated pet food that either sickened or killed an unknown number of dogs and cats. Since March 16, more than 100 brands of pet food have been recalled because they were contaminated with melamine. Acheson said that fish samples would be screened for signs of melamine. "Depending upon what we find in that testing, that is going to drive the next steps," Acheson said. Canadian officials are aware of the finding, Acheson said. "We used it to make pet food. They used it to make fish meal," he told reporters. Federal health and food officials have said some 20 million chickens and thousands of hogs also were fed feed contaminated by melamine. As with the fish, they said the risk to human health is very low. U.S. investigators also have learned that the purported Chinese wheat gluten and a second ingredient, rice protein concentrate, were actually simple wheat flour. The flour was spiked with melamine and related, nitrogen-rich compounds to make it appear more protein rich than it was. In tests, nitrogen levels are measured to gauge the overall protein content of food ingredients. "What we discovered is these are not wheat gluten and rice protein concentrate but in fact are wheat flour contaminated by melamine," Acheson said. The FDA is considering enforcement options, he added. The ingredients came from two Chinese firms: Xuzhou Anying Biologic Technology Development Co. and Futian Biology Technology Co. Ltd. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Passenger killed on Interstate 5 by loose truck wheels Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/health/7393856.html	Drug maker to pay $19.5 million over OxyContin promotion | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Health Drug maker to pay $19.5 million over OxyContin promotion Story Published: May 8, 2007 at 11:50 AM PDT Story Updated: May 8, 2007 at 11:50 AM PDT HARTFORD, Conn. (AP) - Drug maker Purdue Pharma L.P. agreed to pay $19.5 million to 26 states and the District of Columbia over its promotion of the powerful painkiller OxyContin, especially to doctors, the company said Tuesday. The states had complained that Purdue had been encouraging physicians to prescribe the drugs for use every eight hours, instead of the every 12-hour dose approved by the Food and Drug Administration. "We're raising the bar on off-label marketing and other promotion tactics that lead to abuse and diversion of prescription drugs," Connecticut Attorney General Richard Blumenthal said. "Our combined state legal campaign will stop this manufacturer from promote a powerful drug for inappropriate uses. OxyContin offers huge benefits as a highly potent painkiller, but also horrendous risks if abused or diverted." Among other things, the settlement requires Purdue to abide by the warning on its packaging insert, stop marketing the drug for use in ways other than approved by the FDA, and maintain an internal abuse diversion detection program. "It has always been Purdue's written policy that promotion of its products must adhere to FDA-approved prescribing information for those products as well as applicable laws," the company said in a statement. "The company maintains a comprehensive compliance program to ensure its employees and operations comply with its internal policies and all applicable laws and requirements, including the provisions of the agreements announced today." Other states taking part in the settlement are Arizona, Arkansas, California, Idaho, Illinois, Kentucky, Louisiana, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, Montana, Nebraska, Nevada, New Mexico, North Carolina, Ohio, Oregon, Pennsylvania, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas, Vermont, Virginia, Washington and Wisconsin. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Passenger killed on Interstate 5 by loose truck wheels Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/health/7393906.html	VA urged to improve testing, compensation for veterans with stress disorder | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Health VA urged to improve testing, compensation for veterans with stress disorder Story Published: May 8, 2007 at 11:53 AM PDT Story Updated: May 8, 2007 at 11:53 AM PDT WASHINGTON (AP) - The surge in the number of veterans suffering post-traumatic stress disorder requires development of better tests to evaluate affected personnel and determine how best to compensate them, a panel of medical experts said Tuesday. "As the increasing number of claims to the VA shows, PTSD has become a very significant public health problem," said Nancy Andreasen, chair of the committee that prepared the report. "Our review of the current methods for evaluating PTSD disability claims and determining compensation indicates that a comprehensive revision is needed," said Andreasen, head of the psychiatry department at Carver College of Medicine, University of Iowa. Claims increased from 120,265 in 1999 to 215,871 in 2004 and payments jumped from $1.72 billion to $4.28 billion in the same period, a combined committee from the Institute of Medicine and National Research Council said. "VA is studying the findings, conclusions and recommendations of the report to determine actions that can be taken to further enhance the services we provide," VA press secretary Matt Burns said. "VA is a recognized leader in the diagnosis and treatment of PTSD, and we will continue to take steps to ensure veterans have timely and seamless access to compensation for which they are eligible," he added. While the largest share of claims is still coming from Vietnam War veterans, there are expected to be many more claims in future from personnel who served in the first Gulf War and in the current conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan, the panel said. But the Veterans Affairs Department uses only crude criteria for rating disabilities due to mental illness and is not consistent for relapsing conditions, according to the report, which had been requested by the VA. The panel urged the VA to develop new criteria based on the diagnostic standards of the American Psychiatric Association and to establish certification programs for workers who deal with PTSD claims. The panel said the VA should base compensation decisions on how greatly PTSD affects all aspects of a veteran's daily life, not just his or her ability to be gainfully employed. Andreasen noted that in the case of a paraplegic, compensation is based on both ability to work and quality of life, while in the case of mental illness, currently the ratings are tightly linked to the ability to be employed. The report also noted that PTSD can be triggered by trauma other than combat, such as sexual assault. Female veterans are less likely to receive compensation for PTSD, which may in part be due to the difficulty of substantiating exposure to traumatic events unrelated to combat, including sexual harassment or assaults that occurred during service, the report said. It urged the VA to gather data and provide reference materials to help disability raters better address the management of PTSD claims related to sexual assault during military service. Dr. Robert J. Ursano, chairman of the department of psychiatry at the Uniformed Services University of the Health Sciences in Bethesda, Md., a member of the committee, said the recommendations are complex and the VA will have to study how to implement them over time. The Institute of Medicine and National Research Council are branches of the National Academy of Sciences, an independent organization chartered by Congress to advise the government on scientific matters. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Passenger killed on Interstate 5 by loose truck wheels Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/health/7382521.html	Millions of dollars intended for poor probably stayed with insurers, investigators say | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Health Millions of dollars intended for poor probably stayed with insurers, investigators say Story Published: May 7, 2007 at 9:05 PM PDT Story Updated: May 7, 2007 at 6:20 PM PDT WASHINGTON (AP) - Some of the aid intended for the poorest of Medicare's participants - tens of millions of dollars - probably never made it to them during the first year of the new Medicare drug benefit. Some so-called dual-eligibles - seniors and disabled people whose incomes are so low that they also qualify for Medicaid - were never told that they could seek reimbursement for some drug-related expenses, federal investigators say in a report to be released Tuesday. The Bush administration took extra precautions to help the group. It said that the government should cover the cost of medicine for dual-eligibles retroactively - back to the first day of the month when the beneficiary became eligible for Medicaid. The federal government pays the insurers for that retroactive coverage - about $100 million in 2006. Then, the plans are required to reimburse their dual-eligible customers for drug costs incurred during those months when they were eligible for extra help but not yet in their new plan. "Given the vulnerability of the dual-eligible population, it seems unlikely that the majority of these beneficiaries would have contacted their (insurance plan) for reimbursement if they were not notified of their right to do so," the Government Accountability Office said. The agency that oversees the drug benefit, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, recently revised the letter it uses to notify dual-eligibles they've been enrolled in a drug plan. The letter now lets beneficiaries know they may be eligible for reimbursement of previous expenses. Medicare officials said the challenges associated with moving more than 6 million dual-eligibles into the new drug benefit were immense. In that context, the report's recommendations constitute minor refinements for the program, which cost the federal government about $30 billion last year. "We must object to the overwhelmingly negative tone of the findings set forth in this report," said Leslie Norwalk, acting administrator for the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services. "We believe that an evenhanded report would begin by prominently acknowledging the overall success of CMS' efforts." Norwalk took issue with the investigators' conclusion that CMS put the Medicare program at risk of paying insurers for several months when they are not providing drug benefits. She said the conclusion was unsubstantiated. Indeed, the agency has educated partners that insurers have an obligation to reimburse their customers or other payers for costs that customers incurred during the retroactive period. But senators seemed to side with the investigators. "I'm very disturbed that CMS paid out about $100 million to plans to pay claims for dual eligibles, yet CMS can't say if the plans lived up to their obligations," said Sen. Charles Grassley, R-Iowa. "Apparently, both the beneficiaries and the government were shortchanged." Sen. Max Baucus, D-Mont., said the report indicates serious gaps in the information that low-income enrollees are given and the financial help they receive. Sen. Jay Rockefeller, D-W.Va., said the report sheds light on "yet another example of how private plans are being grossly overpaid for services they have not provided." But Karen Ignagni, president and CEO of a trade group representing the insurance industry, said the insurers know about the requirements for reimbursing beneficiaries for retroactive drug expenses, and they are strongly committed to doing so. "There is no confusion within the health plan community about that responsibility," she said. At times, there have been problems with government databases that can cause delays in reimbursement by insurers, she said. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Passenger killed on Interstate 5 by loose truck wheels Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/health/7441506.html	FDA approves patch to treat early Parkinson's symptoms | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Health FDA approves patch to treat early Parkinson's symptoms Story Published: May 10, 2007 at 9:00 AM PDT Story Updated: May 10, 2007 at 9:00 AM PDT WASHINGTON (AP) - The treatment options for patients with early Parkinson's expanded Wednesday with the approval of a new drug in patch form - a first for medicines to treat symptoms of the disease. The once-daily Neupro patch contains a drug called rotigotine, which has not been sold before in the United States, the Food and Drug Administration said. The drug patch, made by Schwarz Pharma AG, is the first for the treatment of symptoms of Parkinson's disease. Parkinson's disease results from the loss of dopamine-producing brain cells. Dopamine is crucial for the communication between cells that control muscle movement, which explains the trembling commonly seen in Parkinson's patients. Rotigotine works by activating dopamine receptors in the brain, mimicking the neurotransmitter's effect. The most common side effects for Neupro include skin reactions at the patch site, dizziness, nausea, vomiting, drowsiness and insomnia, the FDA said. Most are typical with this class of drugs. Other potential safety concerns include sudden onset of sleep while engaged in activities such as driving or operating machinery, hallucinations and decreased blood pressure when standing up, the agency said. An estimated 1 million people in the U.S. have Parkinson's, with an additional 60,000 cases diagnosed each year. Belgium's UCB bought Germany-based Schwarz Pharma last year. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Passenger killed on Interstate 5 by loose truck wheels Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/health	KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Health Lose the ads, not the weight, says doctors' group An ad campaign that suggested milk can help people lose weight is ending, the Federal Trade Commission told a doctors' group that had complained. Merck vaccine production problem means extra shot for kids Young children needing immunization against chickenpox and three other diseases likely will have to get an extra shot, due to manufacturing problems that have halted production of a four-disease combo vaccine made by Merck & Co. Purdue Pharma executives plead guilty to misleading public about OxyContin addiction Purdue Pharma L.P., its president, top lawyer and former chief medical officer will pay $634.5 million in fines for claiming the drug was less addictive and less subject to abuse than other pain medications. FDA approves patch to treat early Parkinson's symptoms Study links lung scarring disease to post-Sept. 11 WTC work Dentists say children's dental health has not improved Farmed fish fed contaminated material linked to pet food recall VA urged to improve testing, compensation for veterans with stress disorder Clinton Foundation deal to lower cost of AIDS drugs Drug maker to pay $19.5 million over OxyContin promotion Millions of dollars intended for poor probably stayed with insurers, investigators say Study suggests coping strategies for childhood immunizations Report: Chinese factory made chemical in tainted medicine linked to Panama deaths Cancer survivor, 75, skis to North Pole FDA seeks antidepressant suicide warning Bush extolls benefits of exercise, then hops on bike 20 Million chickens held because of feed Brazil to bypass patent on U.S. AIDS drug Researchers announce possible new treatment for autism Will face masks help during a super-flu? Scientists say don't count on it Researchers examine bio-magnetic Sensors Celebrities boost lemon detox fad, but it may not be good for your health Canada confirms new mad cow case Study: Hormones may ward off dementia Studies hint at unexpected heart rhythm problem with bone-building drugs FDA asks antidepressant makers to warn about suicide risks Study: Heart attack death rate in hospitals cut in half in 6 years Drug makers target first-time users with flavored meth Some school lunches depending on faux-junk food for improved nutrition Can cherries reduce risk of heart disease? "Smart bombs" for lymphoma underused Teen girls abuse prescription drugs more Gravity machines make inroads Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Passenger killed on Interstate 5 by loose truck wheels Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/health/7441546.html	Purdue Pharma executives plead guilty to misleading public about OxyContin addiction | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Health Purdue Pharma executives plead guilty to misleading public about OxyContin addiction Story Published: May 10, 2007 at 9:02 AM PDT Story Updated: May 10, 2007 at 1:45 PM PDT ROANOKE, Va. (AP) - The maker of the powerful painkiller OxyContin and three of its current and former executives pleaded guilty Thursday to misleading the public about the drug's risk of addiction, a federal prosecutor and the company said. Purdue Pharma L.P., its president, top lawyer and former chief medical officer will pay $634.5 million in fines for claiming the drug was less addictive and less subject to abuse than other pain medications, U.S. Attorney John Brownlee said in a news release. The plea comes two days after the Stamford, Conn.-based company agreed to pay $19.5 million to 26 states and the District of Columbia to settle complaints that it encouraged physicians to overprescribe OxyContin. "With its OxyContin, Purdue unleashed a highly abusable, addictive, and potentially dangerous drug on an unsuspecting and unknowing public," Brownlee said. "For these misrepresentations and crimes, Purdue and its executives have been brought to justice." Privately held Purdue Pharma said it accepted responsibility for its employees' actions. "During the past six years, we have implemented changes to our internal training, compliance and monitoring systems that seek to assure that similar events do not occur again," the company said in a news release. OxyContin, a trade name for oxycodone, is a time-release painkiller that can be highly addictive. Designed to be swallowed whole and digested over 12 hours, the pills can produce a heroin-like high if crushed and then swallowed, snorted or injected. From 1996 to 2001, the number of oxycodone-related deaths nationwide increased 400 percent while the annual number of OxyContin prescriptions increased nearly 20-fold, according to a report by the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration. In 2002, the DEA said the drug caused 146 deaths and contributed to another 318. In western Virginia, 228 people died from overdoses of oxycodone from 1996 to 2005, Brownlee said. The fines will be distributed to state and federal law enforcement agencies, the federal government, federal and state Medicaid programs, a Virginia prescription monitoring program and individuals who had sued the company. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Passenger killed on Interstate 5 by loose truck wheels Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/health/7374701.html	Study suggests coping strategies for childhood immunizations | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Health Study suggests coping strategies for childhood immunizations Story Published: May 7, 2007 at 10:59 AM PDT Story Updated: May 7, 2007 at 10:59 AM PDT CHICAGO (AP) - Some children sob, others scream, and some get so upset they have to be restrained by medical staff. But a new study suggests parents can ease the anxiety about immunizations by telling a joke, reading a book or bringing a favorite toy from home. Other proven distraction techniques include blowing soap bubbles and, for babies under six months, using a pacifier dipped in sugar water. "All of those kinds of things can take children's minds away from the needle poised to go into their arm," said lead author Dr. Neil L. Schechter, the director of the Pain Relief Program at Connecticut Children's Medical Center. The study appears in the May edition of Pediatrics, scheduled for release Monday. Parents who are overly apologetic or excessively reassuring during the procedure can actually cause more distress, the research found. Instead, parents should adopt a "matter-of-fact, supportive, nonapologetic approach," researchers said. The 2007 immunization schedule from the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommends 10 vaccines for children under the age of 6, with most requiring multiple doses. Schechter's team reviewed hundreds of previous studies regarding pediatric immunizations and referenced about 120 in their article, in which they also make recommendations for doctors. While some may dismiss the shots as a rite of passage, children's fear can interfere with important discussions pediatricians need to have with parents, said Schechter, who is also a professor of pediatrics at the University of Connecticut School of Medicine and a pediatrician at Hartford's St. Francis Hospital. At Children's Memorial Hospital in Chicago, child life specialist Emily Rogers helps young patients deal with procedures including injections and getting their blood drawn. Rogers said she believed the study was a valuable one. While somewhat surprised with findings that overly empathetic parents can cause more distress, she theorized it's because children became scared and confused when they feel their parents lack control over a situation. She carries a "distraction bag" packed with pinwheels, bubbles, whistles and books, and she also helps young patients practice relaxation and breathing techniques. Rogers said it's important parents not bargain with their child, instead emphasizing while it's OK to feel scared, the medical procedure is designed to help them and the child isn't being punished. "I think kids are pretty smart. They know how to drag something out," Rogers said. "Parents need to emphasize this is something we need to get done." That's how Gina Rubel of Doylestown, Pa., approaches shots with her 4-year-old son, Ford, who received three injections last month. Rubel, who owns a public relations firm, said she and her husband emphasize to Ford and their 7-year-old daughter that the shots "are part of the growing up process, part of staying healthy and taking care of yourself." Still, Rubel remembers as a child kicking her pediatrician in the shins and hiding under a table before an immunization. And during his most recent shots, her son cried and afterward dramatically walked with a limp, complaining of how much the shots hurt. She gave him a hug, then quickly tried to change the focus. "It's very hard for me not to cry when you see your child feeling pain," she said. "I don't know any parent who doesn't get upset." Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Passenger killed on Interstate 5 by loose truck wheels Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/health/7393876.html	Clinton Foundation deal to lower cost of AIDS drugs | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Health Clinton Foundation deal to lower cost of AIDS drugs Story Published: May 8, 2007 at 11:51 AM PDT Story Updated: May 8, 2007 at 11:51 AM PDT NEW YORK (AP) - Former President Bill Clinton announced agreements with drug companies Tuesday to lower the price of so-called "second-line" AIDS drugs for people in the developing world and to make a once-a-day AIDS pill available for less than $1 a day. The anti-retroviral drugs are needed by patients who develop resistance to first-line treatment and currently cost 10 times as much as first-line therapy, Clinton said. Nearly half a million patients will require these drugs by 2010. Clinton's foundation negotiated agreements with generic drug makers Cipla Ltd. and Matrix Laboratories Ltd. that he said would mean an average savings of 25 percent in low-income countries and 50 percent in middle-income countries. He said the companies collaborated with the foundation to lower production costs, in part by securing lower prices for raw materials. The reduced-price, once-daily pill combines the drugs tenofovir, lamivudine and efavirenz. Clinton said the new price of $339 per patient per year would be 45 percent lower than the current rate available to low-income countries and 67 percent less than the price available to many middle-income countries "Seven million people in the developing world are in need of treatment for HIV/AIDS," Clinton said. "We are trying to meet that need with the best medicine available today, and at prices that low and middle-income countries can afford." The Clinton Foundation's activities are being financed by UNITAID, an organization formed by France and 19 other nations that have earmarked a small portion of their airline tax revenues for HIV/AIDS programs in developing countries. UNITAID will provide the foundation with more than $100 million to buy second-line medicines for 27 countries through 2008. "Every person living with HIV deserves access to the most effective medicines, and UNITAID aims to ensure that these are affordable for all developing countries," French Foreign Minister Philippe Douste-Blazy, chairman of UNITAID's board, said in a statement. Since starting its HIV/AIDS Initiative in 2002, the Clinton Foundation has worked with 25 countries in Africa, the Caribbean and Asia to set up AIDS treatment and prevention programs. The foundation also provides access to lower-priced AIDS drugs in 65 countries. Some 750,000 people are now receiving AIDS drugs purchased through the Clinton Foundation. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Passenger killed on Interstate 5 by loose truck wheels Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/health/7418606.html	Dentists say children's dental health has not improved | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Health Dentists say children's dental health has not improved Story Published: May 9, 2007 at 9:06 AM PDT Story Updated: May 9, 2007 at 9:06 AM PDT BEND, Ore. (AP) - Dental health may not be getting any worse for Oregon children, but dentists say they see few signs that it is improving. "I've seen a lot of it for a long time," said Dr. Cate Quas, a pediatric dentist in Bend who treats many Oregon Health Plan patients. "I see horrendous stuff in preschoolers." Quas said she recently pulled 10 of a little boy's 20 teeth because the decay was so extensive. She said the boy told her he looked like an old man so she made him a retainer with prosthetic teeth. "What happens is that families, they let the problem get too bad because they don't know where to go and they can't afford it. Of course it just snowballs and they end up with a toothache or an infection," said Vickie Matthews, coordinator of the Kemple Children's Clinic, which coordinates dental care for low-income children in Central Oregon. "We have had some kids here with life-threatening infections," Matthews said. According to a report released in November by the Oregon Department of Human Services, 56 percent of children ages 6 to 8 in Oregon have had dental caries, which is tooth decay that can lead to cavities. Nationwide, 50 percent of children in the same age group have experienced dental caries, although the overall prevalence of tooth decay in older children is decreasing. "Oregon has an oral disease burden. It's a silent epidemic," said Brett Hamilton, managing director of public and professional education for the Oregon Dental Association. "A lot of times people don't associate their mouth with their whole body or realize that their mouth is part of their overall health." Quas blames too much milk or sugary drinks for much of the problem. "The stuff you see in preschoolers is generally created when they are toddlers," she said. "It's not like between the ages of 2 and 5 the tooth decay becomes rampant." Some parents give their children juice in sippy cups and let them carry the sugary drink around all day, or put them to bed with milk in their bottles, Quas said. Sugars in the fluids coat the teeth, giving bacteria a chance to take hold. "The food pools on top of the teeth and the bacteria have a heyday," Quas said. "They have little parties all night long and eat into the teeth." Instead, Quas and other dentists recommend giving children water in sippy cups or bottles instead of drinks that are high in sugar. Often parents also don't realize that recommendations on dental care have changed, said Dr. Mike Shirtcliff, president and CEO of Northwest Dental Services in Redmond. The group of almost 300 Oregon dentists works to improve access to basic dental care in rural areas of the state. "The mythology in dentistry is you don't treat pregnant women unless it is an emergency and you don't treat kids until they are 30 months old," Shirtcliff said. But now the professional standard is to treat pregnant women, and babies should be seen before their first birthday. "We've been working hard to change the standard of care. It's going from old knowledge to new knowledge." Shirtcliff's organization works to educate and encourage dentists to treat more patients with Oregon Health Plan coverage. Because the Oregon Health Plan does not reimburse at as high a rate as other types of insurance, he said, sometimes dentists are reluctant to participate. In Central Oregon there are plenty of pediatric dentists, Shirtcliff said. But places like Douglas County, the Southern Oregon coast and areas of Eastern Oregon have a limited number of pediatric dentists to serve the population. Dentists also recommend fluoridation of drinking water to prevent decay. The Oregon Dental Association has been pushing the state Legislature for years to mandate that Oregon's drinking water be fluoridated, Hamilton said. "There seems to be more and more decay," said Dr. Dean Nyquist, a Bend dentist who sees many young children with serious dental problems. "Especially in our area where we do not have fluoride in the water. It makes a big difference." Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Passenger killed on Interstate 5 by loose truck wheels Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/health/7419176.html	Study links lung scarring disease to post-Sept. 11 WTC work | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Health Study links lung scarring disease to post-Sept. 11 WTC work Story Published: May 9, 2007 at 9:38 AM PDT Story Updated: May 9, 2007 at 9:38 AM PDT NEW YORK (AP) - Rescue workers and firefighters contracted a serious lung-scarring disease called sarcoidosis at a much higher rate after the Sept. 11 attacks than before, said a study that is the first to link the disease to exposure to toxic dust at ground zero. The study, published by nine doctors including the medical officer monitoring city firefighters, Dr. David Prezant, found that firefighters and rescue workers contracted sarcoidosis in the year after Sept. 11, 2001, at a rate more than five times higher than the years before the attacks. Unlike previous studies that have linked exposure to the toxic dust cloud that enveloped lower Manhattan after the World Trade Center's collapse to many different respiratory illnesses, this study zeros in on one disease. Sarcoidosis, which can be life-threatening, causes an inflammation in the lungs that deposits tiny cells in the organs, leaving scar tissues that damage them. Several rescue workers and others exposed to trade center dust have claimed they contracted the disease from their work at ground zero. The study compared the rates of contracting sarcoidosis among fire department employees for 15 years before Sept. 11 and for five years after it. It said firefighters who showed symptoms of the disease on chest X-rays underwent more intensive exams. After the trade center attack, 26 firefighters were diagnosed with sarcoidosis, the study found. Thirteen were diagnosed in the first year after the attacks, which represents a rate of 86 per 100,000. In the 15 years before the attack, the rate of sarcoidosis was 15 per 100,0000, the study found. None of the 26 rescue workers, who are in their 30s and 40s, has died of the disease, and about 10 have improved or recovered since their diagnoses, the study found. Two of the firefighters were former smokers, the study found. The study was published this week in the May issue of CHEST Physician, a journal published by the American College of Chest Physicians. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Passenger killed on Interstate 5 by loose truck wheels Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/health/7464652.html	Lose the ads, not the weight, says doctors' group | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Health Lose the ads, not the weight, says doctors' group Story Published: May 11, 2007 at 11:58 AM PDT Story Updated: May 11, 2007 at 11:58 AM PDT WASHINGTON (AP) - An ad campaign that suggested milk can help people lose weight is ending, the Federal Trade Commission told a doctors' group that had complained. The Physicians Committee for Responsible Medicine contended the weight loss claims were false and misleading. The group, in a 2005 petition, asked the commission to order a halt to the dairy advertisements. The agency did not take that step, but said in a letter to the committee that the groups behind the ads planned to end them. "It is obvious that the industry did not have a leg to stand on," Neal Barnard, president of the Washington-based doctors committee, said Thursday. His group advocates a vegan diet, which typically includes no animal products. The two marketing campaigns at issue involve the "Milk your diet. Lose Weight!" ads on television, Internet and in magazines, and the "3-A-Day. Burn More Fat, Lose Weight" ads, which are now mostly Web-based. The FTC, in a letter May 3 to the committee, said the agency met with Agriculture Department officials and representatives for the two campaigns, which decided "to discontinue all advertising and other marketing activities involving weight loss claims until further research provides stronger, more conclusive evidence." Susan Ruland, a spokeswoman for the "Milk your Diet" campaign, said there was nothing misleading about the ads. "We absolutely stand behind our weight loss campaign and the science supporting our messages," said Ruland, who represents the National Fluid Milk Processor Promotion Board. "There's a strong body of scientific evidence that demonstrates a connection between dairy and weight loss." Still, she said, the board plans to phase out the milk ads and focus the campaign instead on how dairy can help promote a healthy diet. The National Dairy Promotion and Research Board said it has already changed its "3-A-Day" campaign. The Agriculture Department, which has oversight of the two boards, had approved the ads. A spokesman said the agency supports the decision to pull back from the campaigns. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Passenger killed on Interstate 5 by loose truck wheels Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/health/7464627.html	Merck vaccine production problem means extra shot for kids | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Health Merck vaccine production problem means extra shot for kids Story Published: May 11, 2007 at 11:56 AM PDT Story Updated: May 11, 2007 at 11:56 AM PDT TRENTON, N.J. (AP) - Young children needing immunization against chickenpox and three other diseases likely will have to get an extra shot, due to manufacturing problems that have halted production of a four-disease combo vaccine made by Merck & Co. Merck said Thursday that its ProQuad vaccine, which protects against measles, mumps and rubella as well as chickenpox, won't be available from about July until at least year's end. "It's too early to say at this point whether new (ProQuad) supplies will be available in 2008," said Mary Elizabeth Blake, spokeswoman for Merck's vaccines division. However, the drugmaker expects to have plenty of two separate vaccines that cover the same diseases: Varivax, for chickenpox, and M-M-R II, for measles, mumps and rubella. The federal government recommends children get each of those shots twice, once at age 12 months to 15 months and again between ages four and six years old, or - when available - they can receive the ProQuad vaccine twice. Last year, the government recommended the second chickenpox shot because of outbreaks among schoolchildren, apparently due to waning potency of the vaccine. Whitehouse Station, N.J.-based Merck is the only U.S. source for vaccines against the varicella zoster virus, which causes chickenpox in children and shingles in adults. Blake said Merck decided to shift available supply of the key vaccine ingredient against chickenpox - live but weakened varicella virus - from ProQuad to Varivax and its shingles vaccine, Zostavax. The drugmaker recently informed the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention of its decision. "It makes sense to cut back on ProQuad first" because that requires more virus, said Dr. Lance Rodewald, director of the CDC's immunization services division. He said the agency had been assured there would be an adequate supply of both Varivax, with an expected demand of more than 8 million doses, and Merck's Zostavax vaccine against shingles. Zostavax was just approved last May and is recommended for all adults aged 60 and older. Shingles, also called herpes zoster, is a painful skin rash that strikes roughly one in four adults who previously had chickenpox. The government does not have a firm projection of demand for Zostavax, Rodewald said. According to the CDC, Merck charges private doctors about $45 for M-M-R II and $75 for Varivax, slightly less than the $125 price for ProQuad. All or most of the cost of getting the shots is generally covered by private insurance and the federal Vaccines for Children program for the poor. In trading on the New York Stock Exchange, Merck shares fell 97 cents to $51.08, near their 52-week high of $52.63. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Passenger killed on Interstate 5 by loose truck wheels Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/health/7393856.html	Drug maker to pay $19.5 million over OxyContin promotion | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Health Drug maker to pay $19.5 million over OxyContin promotion Story Published: May 8, 2007 at 11:50 AM PDT Story Updated: May 8, 2007 at 11:50 AM PDT HARTFORD, Conn. (AP) - Drug maker Purdue Pharma L.P. agreed to pay $19.5 million to 26 states and the District of Columbia over its promotion of the powerful painkiller OxyContin, especially to doctors, the company said Tuesday. The states had complained that Purdue had been encouraging physicians to prescribe the drugs for use every eight hours, instead of the every 12-hour dose approved by the Food and Drug Administration. "We're raising the bar on off-label marketing and other promotion tactics that lead to abuse and diversion of prescription drugs," Connecticut Attorney General Richard Blumenthal said. "Our combined state legal campaign will stop this manufacturer from promote a powerful drug for inappropriate uses. OxyContin offers huge benefits as a highly potent painkiller, but also horrendous risks if abused or diverted." Among other things, the settlement requires Purdue to abide by the warning on its packaging insert, stop marketing the drug for use in ways other than approved by the FDA, and maintain an internal abuse diversion detection program. "It has always been Purdue's written policy that promotion of its products must adhere to FDA-approved prescribing information for those products as well as applicable laws," the company said in a statement. "The company maintains a comprehensive compliance program to ensure its employees and operations comply with its internal policies and all applicable laws and requirements, including the provisions of the agreements announced today." Other states taking part in the settlement are Arizona, Arkansas, California, Idaho, Illinois, Kentucky, Louisiana, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, Montana, Nebraska, Nevada, New Mexico, North Carolina, Ohio, Oregon, Pennsylvania, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas, Vermont, Virginia, Washington and Wisconsin. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Passenger killed on Interstate 5 by loose truck wheels Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/health/7393906.html	VA urged to improve testing, compensation for veterans with stress disorder | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Health VA urged to improve testing, compensation for veterans with stress disorder Story Published: May 8, 2007 at 11:53 AM PDT Story Updated: May 8, 2007 at 11:53 AM PDT WASHINGTON (AP) - The surge in the number of veterans suffering post-traumatic stress disorder requires development of better tests to evaluate affected personnel and determine how best to compensate them, a panel of medical experts said Tuesday. "As the increasing number of claims to the VA shows, PTSD has become a very significant public health problem," said Nancy Andreasen, chair of the committee that prepared the report. "Our review of the current methods for evaluating PTSD disability claims and determining compensation indicates that a comprehensive revision is needed," said Andreasen, head of the psychiatry department at Carver College of Medicine, University of Iowa. Claims increased from 120,265 in 1999 to 215,871 in 2004 and payments jumped from $1.72 billion to $4.28 billion in the same period, a combined committee from the Institute of Medicine and National Research Council said. "VA is studying the findings, conclusions and recommendations of the report to determine actions that can be taken to further enhance the services we provide," VA press secretary Matt Burns said. "VA is a recognized leader in the diagnosis and treatment of PTSD, and we will continue to take steps to ensure veterans have timely and seamless access to compensation for which they are eligible," he added. While the largest share of claims is still coming from Vietnam War veterans, there are expected to be many more claims in future from personnel who served in the first Gulf War and in the current conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan, the panel said. But the Veterans Affairs Department uses only crude criteria for rating disabilities due to mental illness and is not consistent for relapsing conditions, according to the report, which had been requested by the VA. The panel urged the VA to develop new criteria based on the diagnostic standards of the American Psychiatric Association and to establish certification programs for workers who deal with PTSD claims. The panel said the VA should base compensation decisions on how greatly PTSD affects all aspects of a veteran's daily life, not just his or her ability to be gainfully employed. Andreasen noted that in the case of a paraplegic, compensation is based on both ability to work and quality of life, while in the case of mental illness, currently the ratings are tightly linked to the ability to be employed. The report also noted that PTSD can be triggered by trauma other than combat, such as sexual assault. Female veterans are less likely to receive compensation for PTSD, which may in part be due to the difficulty of substantiating exposure to traumatic events unrelated to combat, including sexual harassment or assaults that occurred during service, the report said. It urged the VA to gather data and provide reference materials to help disability raters better address the management of PTSD claims related to sexual assault during military service. Dr. Robert J. Ursano, chairman of the department of psychiatry at the Uniformed Services University of the Health Sciences in Bethesda, Md., a member of the committee, said the recommendations are complex and the VA will have to study how to implement them over time. The Institute of Medicine and National Research Council are branches of the National Academy of Sciences, an independent organization chartered by Congress to advise the government on scientific matters. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Passenger killed on Interstate 5 by loose truck wheels Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/health/7441506.html	FDA approves patch to treat early Parkinson's symptoms | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Health FDA approves patch to treat early Parkinson's symptoms Story Published: May 10, 2007 at 9:00 AM PDT Story Updated: May 10, 2007 at 9:00 AM PDT WASHINGTON (AP) - The treatment options for patients with early Parkinson's expanded Wednesday with the approval of a new drug in patch form - a first for medicines to treat symptoms of the disease. The once-daily Neupro patch contains a drug called rotigotine, which has not been sold before in the United States, the Food and Drug Administration said. The drug patch, made by Schwarz Pharma AG, is the first for the treatment of symptoms of Parkinson's disease. Parkinson's disease results from the loss of dopamine-producing brain cells. Dopamine is crucial for the communication between cells that control muscle movement, which explains the trembling commonly seen in Parkinson's patients. Rotigotine works by activating dopamine receptors in the brain, mimicking the neurotransmitter's effect. The most common side effects for Neupro include skin reactions at the patch site, dizziness, nausea, vomiting, drowsiness and insomnia, the FDA said. Most are typical with this class of drugs. Other potential safety concerns include sudden onset of sleep while engaged in activities such as driving or operating machinery, hallucinations and decreased blood pressure when standing up, the agency said. An estimated 1 million people in the U.S. have Parkinson's, with an additional 60,000 cases diagnosed each year. Belgium's UCB bought Germany-based Schwarz Pharma last year. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Passenger killed on Interstate 5 by loose truck wheels Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/health	KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Health Lose the ads, not the weight, says doctors' group An ad campaign that suggested milk can help people lose weight is ending, the Federal Trade Commission told a doctors' group that had complained. Merck vaccine production problem means extra shot for kids Young children needing immunization against chickenpox and three other diseases likely will have to get an extra shot, due to manufacturing problems that have halted production of a four-disease combo vaccine made by Merck & Co. Purdue Pharma executives plead guilty to misleading public about OxyContin addiction Purdue Pharma L.P., its president, top lawyer and former chief medical officer will pay $634.5 million in fines for claiming the drug was less addictive and less subject to abuse than other pain medications. FDA approves patch to treat early Parkinson's symptoms Study links lung scarring disease to post-Sept. 11 WTC work Dentists say children's dental health has not improved Farmed fish fed contaminated material linked to pet food recall VA urged to improve testing, compensation for veterans with stress disorder Clinton Foundation deal to lower cost of AIDS drugs Drug maker to pay $19.5 million over OxyContin promotion Millions of dollars intended for poor probably stayed with insurers, investigators say Study suggests coping strategies for childhood immunizations Report: Chinese factory made chemical in tainted medicine linked to Panama deaths Cancer survivor, 75, skis to North Pole FDA seeks antidepressant suicide warning Bush extolls benefits of exercise, then hops on bike 20 Million chickens held because of feed Brazil to bypass patent on U.S. AIDS drug Researchers announce possible new treatment for autism Will face masks help during a super-flu? Scientists say don't count on it Researchers examine bio-magnetic Sensors Celebrities boost lemon detox fad, but it may not be good for your health Canada confirms new mad cow case Study: Hormones may ward off dementia Studies hint at unexpected heart rhythm problem with bone-building drugs FDA asks antidepressant makers to warn about suicide risks Study: Heart attack death rate in hospitals cut in half in 6 years Drug makers target first-time users with flavored meth Some school lunches depending on faux-junk food for improved nutrition Can cherries reduce risk of heart disease? "Smart bombs" for lymphoma underused Teen girls abuse prescription drugs more Gravity machines make inroads Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Passenger killed on Interstate 5 by loose truck wheels Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/health/7441546.html	Purdue Pharma executives plead guilty to misleading public about OxyContin addiction | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Health Purdue Pharma executives plead guilty to misleading public about OxyContin addiction Story Published: May 10, 2007 at 9:02 AM PDT Story Updated: May 10, 2007 at 1:45 PM PDT ROANOKE, Va. (AP) - The maker of the powerful painkiller OxyContin and three of its current and former executives pleaded guilty Thursday to misleading the public about the drug's risk of addiction, a federal prosecutor and the company said. Purdue Pharma L.P., its president, top lawyer and former chief medical officer will pay $634.5 million in fines for claiming the drug was less addictive and less subject to abuse than other pain medications, U.S. Attorney John Brownlee said in a news release. The plea comes two days after the Stamford, Conn.-based company agreed to pay $19.5 million to 26 states and the District of Columbia to settle complaints that it encouraged physicians to overprescribe OxyContin. "With its OxyContin, Purdue unleashed a highly abusable, addictive, and potentially dangerous drug on an unsuspecting and unknowing public," Brownlee said. "For these misrepresentations and crimes, Purdue and its executives have been brought to justice." Privately held Purdue Pharma said it accepted responsibility for its employees' actions. "During the past six years, we have implemented changes to our internal training, compliance and monitoring systems that seek to assure that similar events do not occur again," the company said in a news release. OxyContin, a trade name for oxycodone, is a time-release painkiller that can be highly addictive. Designed to be swallowed whole and digested over 12 hours, the pills can produce a heroin-like high if crushed and then swallowed, snorted or injected. From 1996 to 2001, the number of oxycodone-related deaths nationwide increased 400 percent while the annual number of OxyContin prescriptions increased nearly 20-fold, according to a report by the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration. In 2002, the DEA said the drug caused 146 deaths and contributed to another 318. In western Virginia, 228 people died from overdoses of oxycodone from 1996 to 2005, Brownlee said. The fines will be distributed to state and federal law enforcement agencies, the federal government, federal and state Medicaid programs, a Virginia prescription monitoring program and individuals who had sued the company. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Passenger killed on Interstate 5 by loose truck wheels Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/health/7393916.html	Farmed fish fed contaminated material linked to pet food recall | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Health Farmed fish fed contaminated material linked to pet food recall Story Published: May 8, 2007 at 11:53 AM PDT Story Updated: May 8, 2007 at 11:53 AM PDT WASHINGTON (AP) - Farmed fish were fed meal spiked with an industrial chemical linked to the ongoing recall of pet foods, though the contamination level was probably too low to pose a danger to anyone who may have eaten the fish, federal health officials said Tuesday. The Canadian-made meal included what was purported to be wheat gluten, a protein source, imported from China. The material was actually wheat flour spiked by the chemical melamine and related, nitrogen-rich compounds to make it appear more protein rich than it was, officials said. After pigs and chickens, the farmed fish mark the third food animal given contaminated feed. The level of contamination is expected to be too low to pose any danger to human health, said Dr. David Acheson, the FDA's assistant commissioner for food protection. It wasn't immediately clear if any of the farmed fish entered the food supply. However, Acheson said at least one firm's fish were still too young and small to be sold. Investigators were visiting other U.S. aquaculture farms that used the contaminated feed. Melamine, a chemical found in plastics and pesticides and not approved for use in pet or human in the U.S., contaminated pet food that either sickened or killed an unknown number of dogs and cats. Since March 16, more than 100 brands of pet food have been recalled because they were contaminated with melamine. Acheson said that fish samples would be screened for signs of melamine. "Depending upon what we find in that testing, that is going to drive the next steps," Acheson said. Canadian officials are aware of the finding, Acheson said. "We used it to make pet food. They used it to make fish meal," he told reporters. Federal health and food officials have said some 20 million chickens and thousands of hogs also were fed feed contaminated by melamine. As with the fish, they said the risk to human health is very low. U.S. investigators also have learned that the purported Chinese wheat gluten and a second ingredient, rice protein concentrate, were actually simple wheat flour. The flour was spiked with melamine and related, nitrogen-rich compounds to make it appear more protein rich than it was. In tests, nitrogen levels are measured to gauge the overall protein content of food ingredients. "What we discovered is these are not wheat gluten and rice protein concentrate but in fact are wheat flour contaminated by melamine," Acheson said. The FDA is considering enforcement options, he added. The ingredients came from two Chinese firms: Xuzhou Anying Biologic Technology Development Co. and Futian Biology Technology Co. Ltd. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Passenger killed on Interstate 5 by loose truck wheels Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/health/7393876.html	Clinton Foundation deal to lower cost of AIDS drugs | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Health Clinton Foundation deal to lower cost of AIDS drugs Story Published: May 8, 2007 at 11:51 AM PDT Story Updated: May 8, 2007 at 11:51 AM PDT NEW YORK (AP) - Former President Bill Clinton announced agreements with drug companies Tuesday to lower the price of so-called "second-line" AIDS drugs for people in the developing world and to make a once-a-day AIDS pill available for less than $1 a day. The anti-retroviral drugs are needed by patients who develop resistance to first-line treatment and currently cost 10 times as much as first-line therapy, Clinton said. Nearly half a million patients will require these drugs by 2010. Clinton's foundation negotiated agreements with generic drug makers Cipla Ltd. and Matrix Laboratories Ltd. that he said would mean an average savings of 25 percent in low-income countries and 50 percent in middle-income countries. He said the companies collaborated with the foundation to lower production costs, in part by securing lower prices for raw materials. The reduced-price, once-daily pill combines the drugs tenofovir, lamivudine and efavirenz. Clinton said the new price of $339 per patient per year would be 45 percent lower than the current rate available to low-income countries and 67 percent less than the price available to many middle-income countries "Seven million people in the developing world are in need of treatment for HIV/AIDS," Clinton said. "We are trying to meet that need with the best medicine available today, and at prices that low and middle-income countries can afford." The Clinton Foundation's activities are being financed by UNITAID, an organization formed by France and 19 other nations that have earmarked a small portion of their airline tax revenues for HIV/AIDS programs in developing countries. UNITAID will provide the foundation with more than $100 million to buy second-line medicines for 27 countries through 2008. "Every person living with HIV deserves access to the most effective medicines, and UNITAID aims to ensure that these are affordable for all developing countries," French Foreign Minister Philippe Douste-Blazy, chairman of UNITAID's board, said in a statement. Since starting its HIV/AIDS Initiative in 2002, the Clinton Foundation has worked with 25 countries in Africa, the Caribbean and Asia to set up AIDS treatment and prevention programs. The foundation also provides access to lower-priced AIDS drugs in 65 countries. Some 750,000 people are now receiving AIDS drugs purchased through the Clinton Foundation. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Passenger killed on Interstate 5 by loose truck wheels Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/health/7418606.html	Dentists say children's dental health has not improved | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Health Dentists say children's dental health has not improved Story Published: May 9, 2007 at 9:06 AM PDT Story Updated: May 9, 2007 at 9:06 AM PDT BEND, Ore. (AP) - Dental health may not be getting any worse for Oregon children, but dentists say they see few signs that it is improving. "I've seen a lot of it for a long time," said Dr. Cate Quas, a pediatric dentist in Bend who treats many Oregon Health Plan patients. "I see horrendous stuff in preschoolers." Quas said she recently pulled 10 of a little boy's 20 teeth because the decay was so extensive. She said the boy told her he looked like an old man so she made him a retainer with prosthetic teeth. "What happens is that families, they let the problem get too bad because they don't know where to go and they can't afford it. Of course it just snowballs and they end up with a toothache or an infection," said Vickie Matthews, coordinator of the Kemple Children's Clinic, which coordinates dental care for low-income children in Central Oregon. "We have had some kids here with life-threatening infections," Matthews said. According to a report released in November by the Oregon Department of Human Services, 56 percent of children ages 6 to 8 in Oregon have had dental caries, which is tooth decay that can lead to cavities. Nationwide, 50 percent of children in the same age group have experienced dental caries, although the overall prevalence of tooth decay in older children is decreasing. "Oregon has an oral disease burden. It's a silent epidemic," said Brett Hamilton, managing director of public and professional education for the Oregon Dental Association. "A lot of times people don't associate their mouth with their whole body or realize that their mouth is part of their overall health." Quas blames too much milk or sugary drinks for much of the problem. "The stuff you see in preschoolers is generally created when they are toddlers," she said. "It's not like between the ages of 2 and 5 the tooth decay becomes rampant." Some parents give their children juice in sippy cups and let them carry the sugary drink around all day, or put them to bed with milk in their bottles, Quas said. Sugars in the fluids coat the teeth, giving bacteria a chance to take hold. "The food pools on top of the teeth and the bacteria have a heyday," Quas said. "They have little parties all night long and eat into the teeth." Instead, Quas and other dentists recommend giving children water in sippy cups or bottles instead of drinks that are high in sugar. Often parents also don't realize that recommendations on dental care have changed, said Dr. Mike Shirtcliff, president and CEO of Northwest Dental Services in Redmond. The group of almost 300 Oregon dentists works to improve access to basic dental care in rural areas of the state. "The mythology in dentistry is you don't treat pregnant women unless it is an emergency and you don't treat kids until they are 30 months old," Shirtcliff said. But now the professional standard is to treat pregnant women, and babies should be seen before their first birthday. "We've been working hard to change the standard of care. It's going from old knowledge to new knowledge." Shirtcliff's organization works to educate and encourage dentists to treat more patients with Oregon Health Plan coverage. Because the Oregon Health Plan does not reimburse at as high a rate as other types of insurance, he said, sometimes dentists are reluctant to participate. In Central Oregon there are plenty of pediatric dentists, Shirtcliff said. But places like Douglas County, the Southern Oregon coast and areas of Eastern Oregon have a limited number of pediatric dentists to serve the population. Dentists also recommend fluoridation of drinking water to prevent decay. The Oregon Dental Association has been pushing the state Legislature for years to mandate that Oregon's drinking water be fluoridated, Hamilton said. "There seems to be more and more decay," said Dr. Dean Nyquist, a Bend dentist who sees many young children with serious dental problems. "Especially in our area where we do not have fluoride in the water. It makes a big difference." Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Passenger killed on Interstate 5 by loose truck wheels Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/health/7419176.html	Study links lung scarring disease to post-Sept. 11 WTC work | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Health Study links lung scarring disease to post-Sept. 11 WTC work Story Published: May 9, 2007 at 9:38 AM PDT Story Updated: May 9, 2007 at 9:38 AM PDT NEW YORK (AP) - Rescue workers and firefighters contracted a serious lung-scarring disease called sarcoidosis at a much higher rate after the Sept. 11 attacks than before, said a study that is the first to link the disease to exposure to toxic dust at ground zero. The study, published by nine doctors including the medical officer monitoring city firefighters, Dr. David Prezant, found that firefighters and rescue workers contracted sarcoidosis in the year after Sept. 11, 2001, at a rate more than five times higher than the years before the attacks. Unlike previous studies that have linked exposure to the toxic dust cloud that enveloped lower Manhattan after the World Trade Center's collapse to many different respiratory illnesses, this study zeros in on one disease. Sarcoidosis, which can be life-threatening, causes an inflammation in the lungs that deposits tiny cells in the organs, leaving scar tissues that damage them. Several rescue workers and others exposed to trade center dust have claimed they contracted the disease from their work at ground zero. The study compared the rates of contracting sarcoidosis among fire department employees for 15 years before Sept. 11 and for five years after it. It said firefighters who showed symptoms of the disease on chest X-rays underwent more intensive exams. After the trade center attack, 26 firefighters were diagnosed with sarcoidosis, the study found. Thirteen were diagnosed in the first year after the attacks, which represents a rate of 86 per 100,000. In the 15 years before the attack, the rate of sarcoidosis was 15 per 100,0000, the study found. None of the 26 rescue workers, who are in their 30s and 40s, has died of the disease, and about 10 have improved or recovered since their diagnoses, the study found. Two of the firefighters were former smokers, the study found. The study was published this week in the May issue of CHEST Physician, a journal published by the American College of Chest Physicians. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Man killed by loose truck wheels on Interstate 5 Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Fans turn out to greet local 'Idol' finalist Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/health/7419176.html	Study links lung scarring disease to post-Sept. 11 WTC work | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Health Study links lung scarring disease to post-Sept. 11 WTC work Story Published: May 9, 2007 at 9:38 AM PDT Story Updated: May 9, 2007 at 9:38 AM PDT NEW YORK (AP) - Rescue workers and firefighters contracted a serious lung-scarring disease called sarcoidosis at a much higher rate after the Sept. 11 attacks than before, said a study that is the first to link the disease to exposure to toxic dust at ground zero. The study, published by nine doctors including the medical officer monitoring city firefighters, Dr. David Prezant, found that firefighters and rescue workers contracted sarcoidosis in the year after Sept. 11, 2001, at a rate more than five times higher than the years before the attacks. Unlike previous studies that have linked exposure to the toxic dust cloud that enveloped lower Manhattan after the World Trade Center's collapse to many different respiratory illnesses, this study zeros in on one disease. Sarcoidosis, which can be life-threatening, causes an inflammation in the lungs that deposits tiny cells in the organs, leaving scar tissues that damage them. Several rescue workers and others exposed to trade center dust have claimed they contracted the disease from their work at ground zero. The study compared the rates of contracting sarcoidosis among fire department employees for 15 years before Sept. 11 and for five years after it. It said firefighters who showed symptoms of the disease on chest X-rays underwent more intensive exams. After the trade center attack, 26 firefighters were diagnosed with sarcoidosis, the study found. Thirteen were diagnosed in the first year after the attacks, which represents a rate of 86 per 100,000. In the 15 years before the attack, the rate of sarcoidosis was 15 per 100,0000, the study found. None of the 26 rescue workers, who are in their 30s and 40s, has died of the disease, and about 10 have improved or recovered since their diagnoses, the study found. Two of the firefighters were former smokers, the study found. The study was published this week in the May issue of CHEST Physician, a journal published by the American College of Chest Physicians. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Man killed by loose truck wheels on Interstate 5 Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Fans turn out to greet local 'Idol' finalist Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/health/7464652.html	Lose the ads, not the weight, says doctors' group | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Health Lose the ads, not the weight, says doctors' group Story Published: May 11, 2007 at 11:58 AM PDT Story Updated: May 11, 2007 at 11:58 AM PDT WASHINGTON (AP) - An ad campaign that suggested milk can help people lose weight is ending, the Federal Trade Commission told a doctors' group that had complained. The Physicians Committee for Responsible Medicine contended the weight loss claims were false and misleading. The group, in a 2005 petition, asked the commission to order a halt to the dairy advertisements. The agency did not take that step, but said in a letter to the committee that the groups behind the ads planned to end them. "It is obvious that the industry did not have a leg to stand on," Neal Barnard, president of the Washington-based doctors committee, said Thursday. His group advocates a vegan diet, which typically includes no animal products. The two marketing campaigns at issue involve the "Milk your diet. Lose Weight!" ads on television, Internet and in magazines, and the "3-A-Day. Burn More Fat, Lose Weight" ads, which are now mostly Web-based. The FTC, in a letter May 3 to the committee, said the agency met with Agriculture Department officials and representatives for the two campaigns, which decided "to discontinue all advertising and other marketing activities involving weight loss claims until further research provides stronger, more conclusive evidence." Susan Ruland, a spokeswoman for the "Milk your Diet" campaign, said there was nothing misleading about the ads. "We absolutely stand behind our weight loss campaign and the science supporting our messages," said Ruland, who represents the National Fluid Milk Processor Promotion Board. "There's a strong body of scientific evidence that demonstrates a connection between dairy and weight loss." Still, she said, the board plans to phase out the milk ads and focus the campaign instead on how dairy can help promote a healthy diet. The National Dairy Promotion and Research Board said it has already changed its "3-A-Day" campaign. The Agriculture Department, which has oversight of the two boards, had approved the ads. A spokesman said the agency supports the decision to pull back from the campaigns. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Man killed by loose truck wheels on Interstate 5 Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Fans turn out to greet local 'Idol' finalist Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/health/7464652.html	Lose the ads, not the weight, says doctors' group | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Health Lose the ads, not the weight, says doctors' group Story Published: May 11, 2007 at 11:58 AM PDT Story Updated: May 11, 2007 at 11:58 AM PDT WASHINGTON (AP) - An ad campaign that suggested milk can help people lose weight is ending, the Federal Trade Commission told a doctors' group that had complained. The Physicians Committee for Responsible Medicine contended the weight loss claims were false and misleading. The group, in a 2005 petition, asked the commission to order a halt to the dairy advertisements. The agency did not take that step, but said in a letter to the committee that the groups behind the ads planned to end them. "It is obvious that the industry did not have a leg to stand on," Neal Barnard, president of the Washington-based doctors committee, said Thursday. His group advocates a vegan diet, which typically includes no animal products. The two marketing campaigns at issue involve the "Milk your diet. Lose Weight!" ads on television, Internet and in magazines, and the "3-A-Day. Burn More Fat, Lose Weight" ads, which are now mostly Web-based. The FTC, in a letter May 3 to the committee, said the agency met with Agriculture Department officials and representatives for the two campaigns, which decided "to discontinue all advertising and other marketing activities involving weight loss claims until further research provides stronger, more conclusive evidence." Susan Ruland, a spokeswoman for the "Milk your Diet" campaign, said there was nothing misleading about the ads. "We absolutely stand behind our weight loss campaign and the science supporting our messages," said Ruland, who represents the National Fluid Milk Processor Promotion Board. "There's a strong body of scientific evidence that demonstrates a connection between dairy and weight loss." Still, she said, the board plans to phase out the milk ads and focus the campaign instead on how dairy can help promote a healthy diet. The National Dairy Promotion and Research Board said it has already changed its "3-A-Day" campaign. The Agriculture Department, which has oversight of the two boards, had approved the ads. A spokesman said the agency supports the decision to pull back from the campaigns. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Man killed by loose truck wheels on Interstate 5 Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Fans turn out to greet local 'Idol' finalist Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/health/7464627.html	Merck vaccine production problem means extra shot for kids | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Health Merck vaccine production problem means extra shot for kids Story Published: May 11, 2007 at 11:56 AM PDT Story Updated: May 11, 2007 at 11:56 AM PDT TRENTON, N.J. (AP) - Young children needing immunization against chickenpox and three other diseases likely will have to get an extra shot, due to manufacturing problems that have halted production of a four-disease combo vaccine made by Merck & Co. Merck said Thursday that its ProQuad vaccine, which protects against measles, mumps and rubella as well as chickenpox, won't be available from about July until at least year's end. "It's too early to say at this point whether new (ProQuad) supplies will be available in 2008," said Mary Elizabeth Blake, spokeswoman for Merck's vaccines division. However, the drugmaker expects to have plenty of two separate vaccines that cover the same diseases: Varivax, for chickenpox, and M-M-R II, for measles, mumps and rubella. The federal government recommends children get each of those shots twice, once at age 12 months to 15 months and again between ages four and six years old, or - when available - they can receive the ProQuad vaccine twice. Last year, the government recommended the second chickenpox shot because of outbreaks among schoolchildren, apparently due to waning potency of the vaccine. Whitehouse Station, N.J.-based Merck is the only U.S. source for vaccines against the varicella zoster virus, which causes chickenpox in children and shingles in adults. Blake said Merck decided to shift available supply of the key vaccine ingredient against chickenpox - live but weakened varicella virus - from ProQuad to Varivax and its shingles vaccine, Zostavax. The drugmaker recently informed the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention of its decision. "It makes sense to cut back on ProQuad first" because that requires more virus, said Dr. Lance Rodewald, director of the CDC's immunization services division. He said the agency had been assured there would be an adequate supply of both Varivax, with an expected demand of more than 8 million doses, and Merck's Zostavax vaccine against shingles. Zostavax was just approved last May and is recommended for all adults aged 60 and older. Shingles, also called herpes zoster, is a painful skin rash that strikes roughly one in four adults who previously had chickenpox. The government does not have a firm projection of demand for Zostavax, Rodewald said. According to the CDC, Merck charges private doctors about $45 for M-M-R II and $75 for Varivax, slightly less than the $125 price for ProQuad. All or most of the cost of getting the shots is generally covered by private insurance and the federal Vaccines for Children program for the poor. In trading on the New York Stock Exchange, Merck shares fell 97 cents to $51.08, near their 52-week high of $52.63. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Man killed by loose truck wheels on Interstate 5 Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Fans turn out to greet local 'Idol' finalist Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/health/7464627.html	Merck vaccine production problem means extra shot for kids | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Health Merck vaccine production problem means extra shot for kids Story Published: May 11, 2007 at 11:56 AM PDT Story Updated: May 11, 2007 at 11:56 AM PDT TRENTON, N.J. (AP) - Young children needing immunization against chickenpox and three other diseases likely will have to get an extra shot, due to manufacturing problems that have halted production of a four-disease combo vaccine made by Merck & Co. Merck said Thursday that its ProQuad vaccine, which protects against measles, mumps and rubella as well as chickenpox, won't be available from about July until at least year's end. "It's too early to say at this point whether new (ProQuad) supplies will be available in 2008," said Mary Elizabeth Blake, spokeswoman for Merck's vaccines division. However, the drugmaker expects to have plenty of two separate vaccines that cover the same diseases: Varivax, for chickenpox, and M-M-R II, for measles, mumps and rubella. The federal government recommends children get each of those shots twice, once at age 12 months to 15 months and again between ages four and six years old, or - when available - they can receive the ProQuad vaccine twice. Last year, the government recommended the second chickenpox shot because of outbreaks among schoolchildren, apparently due to waning potency of the vaccine. Whitehouse Station, N.J.-based Merck is the only U.S. source for vaccines against the varicella zoster virus, which causes chickenpox in children and shingles in adults. Blake said Merck decided to shift available supply of the key vaccine ingredient against chickenpox - live but weakened varicella virus - from ProQuad to Varivax and its shingles vaccine, Zostavax. The drugmaker recently informed the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention of its decision. "It makes sense to cut back on ProQuad first" because that requires more virus, said Dr. Lance Rodewald, director of the CDC's immunization services division. He said the agency had been assured there would be an adequate supply of both Varivax, with an expected demand of more than 8 million doses, and Merck's Zostavax vaccine against shingles. Zostavax was just approved last May and is recommended for all adults aged 60 and older. Shingles, also called herpes zoster, is a painful skin rash that strikes roughly one in four adults who previously had chickenpox. The government does not have a firm projection of demand for Zostavax, Rodewald said. According to the CDC, Merck charges private doctors about $45 for M-M-R II and $75 for Varivax, slightly less than the $125 price for ProQuad. All or most of the cost of getting the shots is generally covered by private insurance and the federal Vaccines for Children program for the poor. In trading on the New York Stock Exchange, Merck shares fell 97 cents to $51.08, near their 52-week high of $52.63. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Man killed by loose truck wheels on Interstate 5 Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Fans turn out to greet local 'Idol' finalist Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/health/7473132.html	Wis. calf born with two noses | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Health Wis. calf born with two noses Story Published: May 11, 2007 at 9:01 PM PDT Story Updated: May 11, 2007 at 9:01 PM PDT MERRILL, Wis. (AP) - Mark Krombholz had to look twice at his new calf, Lucy - one time for each nose. ''I didn't notice anything too different about her until I got her in the barn,'' Krombholz said, ''and all of a sudden I went to feed her a bottle of milk, and I thought maybe she'd been kicked in the nose and there were two noses there.'' The second, smaller nose sits on top of the first. ''It's a functioning nose because the middle of her second nose, the flap would go in and out when she drank out of the bottle like that,'' Krombholz said. ''It was kind of funny.'' Breeder Scott Grund said Lucy's noses seem to be working fine. ''It looked like she was comfortable laying there in her bedding and breathing and spunky just like you want to see,'' Grund said. ''It's just that she's got two noses.'' That kind of rare deformity is usually not the result of genetics, he said. But breeders do track such mutations. ''We'll fill out a form, send that on to the company in Shawano and they will keep record of it,'' Grund said. ''If by chance this would occur more than a few times, they would start looking at maybe the sire that we're using.'' Krombholz said Lucy, who was born May 4, will be a pet and bred if she's able. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Man killed by loose truck wheels on Interstate 5 Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Fans turn out to greet local 'Idol' finalist Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/health/7473132.html	Wis. calf born with two noses | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Health Wis. calf born with two noses Story Published: May 11, 2007 at 9:01 PM PDT Story Updated: May 11, 2007 at 9:01 PM PDT MERRILL, Wis. (AP) - Mark Krombholz had to look twice at his new calf, Lucy - one time for each nose. ''I didn't notice anything too different about her until I got her in the barn,'' Krombholz said, ''and all of a sudden I went to feed her a bottle of milk, and I thought maybe she'd been kicked in the nose and there were two noses there.'' The second, smaller nose sits on top of the first. ''It's a functioning nose because the middle of her second nose, the flap would go in and out when she drank out of the bottle like that,'' Krombholz said. ''It was kind of funny.'' Breeder Scott Grund said Lucy's noses seem to be working fine. ''It looked like she was comfortable laying there in her bedding and breathing and spunky just like you want to see,'' Grund said. ''It's just that she's got two noses.'' That kind of rare deformity is usually not the result of genetics, he said. But breeders do track such mutations. ''We'll fill out a form, send that on to the company in Shawano and they will keep record of it,'' Grund said. ''If by chance this would occur more than a few times, they would start looking at maybe the sire that we're using.'' Krombholz said Lucy, who was born May 4, will be a pet and bred if she's able. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Man killed by loose truck wheels on Interstate 5 Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Fans turn out to greet local 'Idol' finalist Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/health/7393906.html	VA urged to improve testing, compensation for veterans with stress disorder | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Health VA urged to improve testing, compensation for veterans with stress disorder Story Published: May 8, 2007 at 11:53 AM PDT Story Updated: May 8, 2007 at 11:53 AM PDT WASHINGTON (AP) - The surge in the number of veterans suffering post-traumatic stress disorder requires development of better tests to evaluate affected personnel and determine how best to compensate them, a panel of medical experts said Tuesday. "As the increasing number of claims to the VA shows, PTSD has become a very significant public health problem," said Nancy Andreasen, chair of the committee that prepared the report. "Our review of the current methods for evaluating PTSD disability claims and determining compensation indicates that a comprehensive revision is needed," said Andreasen, head of the psychiatry department at Carver College of Medicine, University of Iowa. Claims increased from 120,265 in 1999 to 215,871 in 2004 and payments jumped from $1.72 billion to $4.28 billion in the same period, a combined committee from the Institute of Medicine and National Research Council said. "VA is studying the findings, conclusions and recommendations of the report to determine actions that can be taken to further enhance the services we provide," VA press secretary Matt Burns said. "VA is a recognized leader in the diagnosis and treatment of PTSD, and we will continue to take steps to ensure veterans have timely and seamless access to compensation for which they are eligible," he added. While the largest share of claims is still coming from Vietnam War veterans, there are expected to be many more claims in future from personnel who served in the first Gulf War and in the current conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan, the panel said. But the Veterans Affairs Department uses only crude criteria for rating disabilities due to mental illness and is not consistent for relapsing conditions, according to the report, which had been requested by the VA. The panel urged the VA to develop new criteria based on the diagnostic standards of the American Psychiatric Association and to establish certification programs for workers who deal with PTSD claims. The panel said the VA should base compensation decisions on how greatly PTSD affects all aspects of a veteran's daily life, not just his or her ability to be gainfully employed. Andreasen noted that in the case of a paraplegic, compensation is based on both ability to work and quality of life, while in the case of mental illness, currently the ratings are tightly linked to the ability to be employed. The report also noted that PTSD can be triggered by trauma other than combat, such as sexual assault. Female veterans are less likely to receive compensation for PTSD, which may in part be due to the difficulty of substantiating exposure to traumatic events unrelated to combat, including sexual harassment or assaults that occurred during service, the report said. It urged the VA to gather data and provide reference materials to help disability raters better address the management of PTSD claims related to sexual assault during military service. Dr. Robert J. Ursano, chairman of the department of psychiatry at the Uniformed Services University of the Health Sciences in Bethesda, Md., a member of the committee, said the recommendations are complex and the VA will have to study how to implement them over time. The Institute of Medicine and National Research Council are branches of the National Academy of Sciences, an independent organization chartered by Congress to advise the government on scientific matters. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Man killed by loose truck wheels on Interstate 5 Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Fans turn out to greet local 'Idol' finalist Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/health/7393906.html	VA urged to improve testing, compensation for veterans with stress disorder | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Health VA urged to improve testing, compensation for veterans with stress disorder Story Published: May 8, 2007 at 11:53 AM PDT Story Updated: May 8, 2007 at 11:53 AM PDT WASHINGTON (AP) - The surge in the number of veterans suffering post-traumatic stress disorder requires development of better tests to evaluate affected personnel and determine how best to compensate them, a panel of medical experts said Tuesday. "As the increasing number of claims to the VA shows, PTSD has become a very significant public health problem," said Nancy Andreasen, chair of the committee that prepared the report. "Our review of the current methods for evaluating PTSD disability claims and determining compensation indicates that a comprehensive revision is needed," said Andreasen, head of the psychiatry department at Carver College of Medicine, University of Iowa. Claims increased from 120,265 in 1999 to 215,871 in 2004 and payments jumped from $1.72 billion to $4.28 billion in the same period, a combined committee from the Institute of Medicine and National Research Council said. "VA is studying the findings, conclusions and recommendations of the report to determine actions that can be taken to further enhance the services we provide," VA press secretary Matt Burns said. "VA is a recognized leader in the diagnosis and treatment of PTSD, and we will continue to take steps to ensure veterans have timely and seamless access to compensation for which they are eligible," he added. While the largest share of claims is still coming from Vietnam War veterans, there are expected to be many more claims in future from personnel who served in the first Gulf War and in the current conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan, the panel said. But the Veterans Affairs Department uses only crude criteria for rating disabilities due to mental illness and is not consistent for relapsing conditions, according to the report, which had been requested by the VA. The panel urged the VA to develop new criteria based on the diagnostic standards of the American Psychiatric Association and to establish certification programs for workers who deal with PTSD claims. The panel said the VA should base compensation decisions on how greatly PTSD affects all aspects of a veteran's daily life, not just his or her ability to be gainfully employed. Andreasen noted that in the case of a paraplegic, compensation is based on both ability to work and quality of life, while in the case of mental illness, currently the ratings are tightly linked to the ability to be employed. The report also noted that PTSD can be triggered by trauma other than combat, such as sexual assault. Female veterans are less likely to receive compensation for PTSD, which may in part be due to the difficulty of substantiating exposure to traumatic events unrelated to combat, including sexual harassment or assaults that occurred during service, the report said. It urged the VA to gather data and provide reference materials to help disability raters better address the management of PTSD claims related to sexual assault during military service. Dr. Robert J. Ursano, chairman of the department of psychiatry at the Uniformed Services University of the Health Sciences in Bethesda, Md., a member of the committee, said the recommendations are complex and the VA will have to study how to implement them over time. The Institute of Medicine and National Research Council are branches of the National Academy of Sciences, an independent organization chartered by Congress to advise the government on scientific matters. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Man killed by loose truck wheels on Interstate 5 Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Fans turn out to greet local 'Idol' finalist Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/health/7441506.html	FDA approves patch to treat early Parkinson's symptoms | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Health FDA approves patch to treat early Parkinson's symptoms Story Published: May 10, 2007 at 9:00 AM PDT Story Updated: May 10, 2007 at 9:00 AM PDT WASHINGTON (AP) - The treatment options for patients with early Parkinson's expanded Wednesday with the approval of a new drug in patch form - a first for medicines to treat symptoms of the disease. The once-daily Neupro patch contains a drug called rotigotine, which has not been sold before in the United States, the Food and Drug Administration said. The drug patch, made by Schwarz Pharma AG, is the first for the treatment of symptoms of Parkinson's disease. Parkinson's disease results from the loss of dopamine-producing brain cells. Dopamine is crucial for the communication between cells that control muscle movement, which explains the trembling commonly seen in Parkinson's patients. Rotigotine works by activating dopamine receptors in the brain, mimicking the neurotransmitter's effect. The most common side effects for Neupro include skin reactions at the patch site, dizziness, nausea, vomiting, drowsiness and insomnia, the FDA said. Most are typical with this class of drugs. Other potential safety concerns include sudden onset of sleep while engaged in activities such as driving or operating machinery, hallucinations and decreased blood pressure when standing up, the agency said. An estimated 1 million people in the U.S. have Parkinson's, with an additional 60,000 cases diagnosed each year. Belgium's UCB bought Germany-based Schwarz Pharma last year. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Man killed by loose truck wheels on Interstate 5 Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Fans turn out to greet local 'Idol' finalist Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/health/7441506.html	FDA approves patch to treat early Parkinson's symptoms | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Health FDA approves patch to treat early Parkinson's symptoms Story Published: May 10, 2007 at 9:00 AM PDT Story Updated: May 10, 2007 at 9:00 AM PDT WASHINGTON (AP) - The treatment options for patients with early Parkinson's expanded Wednesday with the approval of a new drug in patch form - a first for medicines to treat symptoms of the disease. The once-daily Neupro patch contains a drug called rotigotine, which has not been sold before in the United States, the Food and Drug Administration said. The drug patch, made by Schwarz Pharma AG, is the first for the treatment of symptoms of Parkinson's disease. Parkinson's disease results from the loss of dopamine-producing brain cells. Dopamine is crucial for the communication between cells that control muscle movement, which explains the trembling commonly seen in Parkinson's patients. Rotigotine works by activating dopamine receptors in the brain, mimicking the neurotransmitter's effect. The most common side effects for Neupro include skin reactions at the patch site, dizziness, nausea, vomiting, drowsiness and insomnia, the FDA said. Most are typical with this class of drugs. Other potential safety concerns include sudden onset of sleep while engaged in activities such as driving or operating machinery, hallucinations and decreased blood pressure when standing up, the agency said. An estimated 1 million people in the U.S. have Parkinson's, with an additional 60,000 cases diagnosed each year. Belgium's UCB bought Germany-based Schwarz Pharma last year. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Man killed by loose truck wheels on Interstate 5 Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Fans turn out to greet local 'Idol' finalist Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/health	KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Health Wis. calf born with two noses Mark Krombholz had to look twice at his new calf, Lucy - one time for each nose. The second, smaller nose sits on top of the first. Lose the ads, not the weight, says doctors' group An ad campaign that suggested milk can help people lose weight is ending, the Federal Trade Commission told a doctors' group that had complained. Merck vaccine production problem means extra shot for kids Young children needing immunization against chickenpox and three other diseases likely will have to get an extra shot, due to manufacturing problems that have halted production of a four-disease combo vaccine made by Merck & Co. Purdue Pharma executives plead guilty to misleading public about OxyContin addiction FDA approves patch to treat early Parkinson's symptoms Study links lung scarring disease to post-Sept. 11 WTC work Dentists say children's dental health has not improved Farmed fish fed contaminated material linked to pet food recall VA urged to improve testing, compensation for veterans with stress disorder Clinton Foundation deal to lower cost of AIDS drugs Drug maker to pay $19.5 million over OxyContin promotion Millions of dollars intended for poor probably stayed with insurers, investigators say Study suggests coping strategies for childhood immunizations Report: Chinese factory made chemical in tainted medicine linked to Panama deaths Cancer survivor, 75, skis to North Pole FDA seeks antidepressant suicide warning Bush extolls benefits of exercise, then hops on bike 20 Million chickens held because of feed Brazil to bypass patent on U.S. AIDS drug Researchers announce possible new treatment for autism Will face masks help during a super-flu? Scientists say don't count on it Researchers examine bio-magnetic Sensors Celebrities boost lemon detox fad, but it may not be good for your health Canada confirms new mad cow case Study: Hormones may ward off dementia Studies hint at unexpected heart rhythm problem with bone-building drugs FDA asks antidepressant makers to warn about suicide risks Study: Heart attack death rate in hospitals cut in half in 6 years Drug makers target first-time users with flavored meth Some school lunches depending on faux-junk food for improved nutrition Can cherries reduce risk of heart disease? "Smart bombs" for lymphoma underused Teen girls abuse prescription drugs more Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Man killed by loose truck wheels on Interstate 5 Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Fans turn out to greet local 'Idol' finalist Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/health	KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Health Wis. calf born with two noses Mark Krombholz had to look twice at his new calf, Lucy - one time for each nose. The second, smaller nose sits on top of the first. Lose the ads, not the weight, says doctors' group An ad campaign that suggested milk can help people lose weight is ending, the Federal Trade Commission told a doctors' group that had complained. Merck vaccine production problem means extra shot for kids Young children needing immunization against chickenpox and three other diseases likely will have to get an extra shot, due to manufacturing problems that have halted production of a four-disease combo vaccine made by Merck & Co. Purdue Pharma executives plead guilty to misleading public about OxyContin addiction FDA approves patch to treat early Parkinson's symptoms Study links lung scarring disease to post-Sept. 11 WTC work Dentists say children's dental health has not improved Farmed fish fed contaminated material linked to pet food recall VA urged to improve testing, compensation for veterans with stress disorder Clinton Foundation deal to lower cost of AIDS drugs Drug maker to pay $19.5 million over OxyContin promotion Millions of dollars intended for poor probably stayed with insurers, investigators say Study suggests coping strategies for childhood immunizations Report: Chinese factory made chemical in tainted medicine linked to Panama deaths Cancer survivor, 75, skis to North Pole FDA seeks antidepressant suicide warning Bush extolls benefits of exercise, then hops on bike 20 Million chickens held because of feed Brazil to bypass patent on U.S. AIDS drug Researchers announce possible new treatment for autism Will face masks help during a super-flu? Scientists say don't count on it Researchers examine bio-magnetic Sensors Celebrities boost lemon detox fad, but it may not be good for your health Canada confirms new mad cow case Study: Hormones may ward off dementia Studies hint at unexpected heart rhythm problem with bone-building drugs FDA asks antidepressant makers to warn about suicide risks Study: Heart attack death rate in hospitals cut in half in 6 years Drug makers target first-time users with flavored meth Some school lunches depending on faux-junk food for improved nutrition Can cherries reduce risk of heart disease? "Smart bombs" for lymphoma underused Teen girls abuse prescription drugs more Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Man killed by loose truck wheels on Interstate 5 Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Fans turn out to greet local 'Idol' finalist Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/health/7441546.html	Purdue Pharma executives plead guilty to misleading public about OxyContin addiction | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Health Purdue Pharma executives plead guilty to misleading public about OxyContin addiction Story Published: May 10, 2007 at 9:02 AM PDT Story Updated: May 10, 2007 at 1:45 PM PDT ROANOKE, Va. (AP) - The maker of the powerful painkiller OxyContin and three of its current and former executives pleaded guilty Thursday to misleading the public about the drug's risk of addiction, a federal prosecutor and the company said. Purdue Pharma L.P., its president, top lawyer and former chief medical officer will pay $634.5 million in fines for claiming the drug was less addictive and less subject to abuse than other pain medications, U.S. Attorney John Brownlee said in a news release. The plea comes two days after the Stamford, Conn.-based company agreed to pay $19.5 million to 26 states and the District of Columbia to settle complaints that it encouraged physicians to overprescribe OxyContin. "With its OxyContin, Purdue unleashed a highly abusable, addictive, and potentially dangerous drug on an unsuspecting and unknowing public," Brownlee said. "For these misrepresentations and crimes, Purdue and its executives have been brought to justice." Privately held Purdue Pharma said it accepted responsibility for its employees' actions. "During the past six years, we have implemented changes to our internal training, compliance and monitoring systems that seek to assure that similar events do not occur again," the company said in a news release. OxyContin, a trade name for oxycodone, is a time-release painkiller that can be highly addictive. Designed to be swallowed whole and digested over 12 hours, the pills can produce a heroin-like high if crushed and then swallowed, snorted or injected. From 1996 to 2001, the number of oxycodone-related deaths nationwide increased 400 percent while the annual number of OxyContin prescriptions increased nearly 20-fold, according to a report by the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration. In 2002, the DEA said the drug caused 146 deaths and contributed to another 318. In western Virginia, 228 people died from overdoses of oxycodone from 1996 to 2005, Brownlee said. The fines will be distributed to state and federal law enforcement agencies, the federal government, federal and state Medicaid programs, a Virginia prescription monitoring program and individuals who had sued the company. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Man killed by loose truck wheels on Interstate 5 Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Fans turn out to greet local 'Idol' finalist Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/health/7441546.html	Purdue Pharma executives plead guilty to misleading public about OxyContin addiction | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Health Purdue Pharma executives plead guilty to misleading public about OxyContin addiction Story Published: May 10, 2007 at 9:02 AM PDT Story Updated: May 10, 2007 at 1:45 PM PDT ROANOKE, Va. (AP) - The maker of the powerful painkiller OxyContin and three of its current and former executives pleaded guilty Thursday to misleading the public about the drug's risk of addiction, a federal prosecutor and the company said. Purdue Pharma L.P., its president, top lawyer and former chief medical officer will pay $634.5 million in fines for claiming the drug was less addictive and less subject to abuse than other pain medications, U.S. Attorney John Brownlee said in a news release. The plea comes two days after the Stamford, Conn.-based company agreed to pay $19.5 million to 26 states and the District of Columbia to settle complaints that it encouraged physicians to overprescribe OxyContin. "With its OxyContin, Purdue unleashed a highly abusable, addictive, and potentially dangerous drug on an unsuspecting and unknowing public," Brownlee said. "For these misrepresentations and crimes, Purdue and its executives have been brought to justice." Privately held Purdue Pharma said it accepted responsibility for its employees' actions. "During the past six years, we have implemented changes to our internal training, compliance and monitoring systems that seek to assure that similar events do not occur again," the company said in a news release. OxyContin, a trade name for oxycodone, is a time-release painkiller that can be highly addictive. Designed to be swallowed whole and digested over 12 hours, the pills can produce a heroin-like high if crushed and then swallowed, snorted or injected. From 1996 to 2001, the number of oxycodone-related deaths nationwide increased 400 percent while the annual number of OxyContin prescriptions increased nearly 20-fold, according to a report by the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration. In 2002, the DEA said the drug caused 146 deaths and contributed to another 318. In western Virginia, 228 people died from overdoses of oxycodone from 1996 to 2005, Brownlee said. The fines will be distributed to state and federal law enforcement agencies, the federal government, federal and state Medicaid programs, a Virginia prescription monitoring program and individuals who had sued the company. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Man killed by loose truck wheels on Interstate 5 Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Fans turn out to greet local 'Idol' finalist Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/health/7393916.html	Farmed fish fed contaminated material linked to pet food recall | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Health Farmed fish fed contaminated material linked to pet food recall Story Published: May 8, 2007 at 11:53 AM PDT Story Updated: May 8, 2007 at 11:53 AM PDT WASHINGTON (AP) - Farmed fish were fed meal spiked with an industrial chemical linked to the ongoing recall of pet foods, though the contamination level was probably too low to pose a danger to anyone who may have eaten the fish, federal health officials said Tuesday. The Canadian-made meal included what was purported to be wheat gluten, a protein source, imported from China. The material was actually wheat flour spiked by the chemical melamine and related, nitrogen-rich compounds to make it appear more protein rich than it was, officials said. After pigs and chickens, the farmed fish mark the third food animal given contaminated feed. The level of contamination is expected to be too low to pose any danger to human health, said Dr. David Acheson, the FDA's assistant commissioner for food protection. It wasn't immediately clear if any of the farmed fish entered the food supply. However, Acheson said at least one firm's fish were still too young and small to be sold. Investigators were visiting other U.S. aquaculture farms that used the contaminated feed. Melamine, a chemical found in plastics and pesticides and not approved for use in pet or human in the U.S., contaminated pet food that either sickened or killed an unknown number of dogs and cats. Since March 16, more than 100 brands of pet food have been recalled because they were contaminated with melamine. Acheson said that fish samples would be screened for signs of melamine. "Depending upon what we find in that testing, that is going to drive the next steps," Acheson said. Canadian officials are aware of the finding, Acheson said. "We used it to make pet food. They used it to make fish meal," he told reporters. Federal health and food officials have said some 20 million chickens and thousands of hogs also were fed feed contaminated by melamine. As with the fish, they said the risk to human health is very low. U.S. investigators also have learned that the purported Chinese wheat gluten and a second ingredient, rice protein concentrate, were actually simple wheat flour. The flour was spiked with melamine and related, nitrogen-rich compounds to make it appear more protein rich than it was. In tests, nitrogen levels are measured to gauge the overall protein content of food ingredients. "What we discovered is these are not wheat gluten and rice protein concentrate but in fact are wheat flour contaminated by melamine," Acheson said. The FDA is considering enforcement options, he added. The ingredients came from two Chinese firms: Xuzhou Anying Biologic Technology Development Co. and Futian Biology Technology Co. Ltd. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Man killed by loose truck wheels on Interstate 5 Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Fans turn out to greet local 'Idol' finalist Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/health/7393916.html	Farmed fish fed contaminated material linked to pet food recall | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Health Farmed fish fed contaminated material linked to pet food recall Story Published: May 8, 2007 at 11:53 AM PDT Story Updated: May 8, 2007 at 11:53 AM PDT WASHINGTON (AP) - Farmed fish were fed meal spiked with an industrial chemical linked to the ongoing recall of pet foods, though the contamination level was probably too low to pose a danger to anyone who may have eaten the fish, federal health officials said Tuesday. The Canadian-made meal included what was purported to be wheat gluten, a protein source, imported from China. The material was actually wheat flour spiked by the chemical melamine and related, nitrogen-rich compounds to make it appear more protein rich than it was, officials said. After pigs and chickens, the farmed fish mark the third food animal given contaminated feed. The level of contamination is expected to be too low to pose any danger to human health, said Dr. David Acheson, the FDA's assistant commissioner for food protection. It wasn't immediately clear if any of the farmed fish entered the food supply. However, Acheson said at least one firm's fish were still too young and small to be sold. Investigators were visiting other U.S. aquaculture farms that used the contaminated feed. Melamine, a chemical found in plastics and pesticides and not approved for use in pet or human in the U.S., contaminated pet food that either sickened or killed an unknown number of dogs and cats. Since March 16, more than 100 brands of pet food have been recalled because they were contaminated with melamine. Acheson said that fish samples would be screened for signs of melamine. "Depending upon what we find in that testing, that is going to drive the next steps," Acheson said. Canadian officials are aware of the finding, Acheson said. "We used it to make pet food. They used it to make fish meal," he told reporters. Federal health and food officials have said some 20 million chickens and thousands of hogs also were fed feed contaminated by melamine. As with the fish, they said the risk to human health is very low. U.S. investigators also have learned that the purported Chinese wheat gluten and a second ingredient, rice protein concentrate, were actually simple wheat flour. The flour was spiked with melamine and related, nitrogen-rich compounds to make it appear more protein rich than it was. In tests, nitrogen levels are measured to gauge the overall protein content of food ingredients. "What we discovered is these are not wheat gluten and rice protein concentrate but in fact are wheat flour contaminated by melamine," Acheson said. The FDA is considering enforcement options, he added. The ingredients came from two Chinese firms: Xuzhou Anying Biologic Technology Development Co. and Futian Biology Technology Co. Ltd. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Man killed by loose truck wheels on Interstate 5 Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Fans turn out to greet local 'Idol' finalist Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/health/7393876.html	Clinton Foundation deal to lower cost of AIDS drugs | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Health Clinton Foundation deal to lower cost of AIDS drugs Story Published: May 8, 2007 at 11:51 AM PDT Story Updated: May 8, 2007 at 11:51 AM PDT NEW YORK (AP) - Former President Bill Clinton announced agreements with drug companies Tuesday to lower the price of so-called "second-line" AIDS drugs for people in the developing world and to make a once-a-day AIDS pill available for less than $1 a day. The anti-retroviral drugs are needed by patients who develop resistance to first-line treatment and currently cost 10 times as much as first-line therapy, Clinton said. Nearly half a million patients will require these drugs by 2010. Clinton's foundation negotiated agreements with generic drug makers Cipla Ltd. and Matrix Laboratories Ltd. that he said would mean an average savings of 25 percent in low-income countries and 50 percent in middle-income countries. He said the companies collaborated with the foundation to lower production costs, in part by securing lower prices for raw materials. The reduced-price, once-daily pill combines the drugs tenofovir, lamivudine and efavirenz. Clinton said the new price of $339 per patient per year would be 45 percent lower than the current rate available to low-income countries and 67 percent less than the price available to many middle-income countries "Seven million people in the developing world are in need of treatment for HIV/AIDS," Clinton said. "We are trying to meet that need with the best medicine available today, and at prices that low and middle-income countries can afford." The Clinton Foundation's activities are being financed by UNITAID, an organization formed by France and 19 other nations that have earmarked a small portion of their airline tax revenues for HIV/AIDS programs in developing countries. UNITAID will provide the foundation with more than $100 million to buy second-line medicines for 27 countries through 2008. "Every person living with HIV deserves access to the most effective medicines, and UNITAID aims to ensure that these are affordable for all developing countries," French Foreign Minister Philippe Douste-Blazy, chairman of UNITAID's board, said in a statement. Since starting its HIV/AIDS Initiative in 2002, the Clinton Foundation has worked with 25 countries in Africa, the Caribbean and Asia to set up AIDS treatment and prevention programs. The foundation also provides access to lower-priced AIDS drugs in 65 countries. Some 750,000 people are now receiving AIDS drugs purchased through the Clinton Foundation. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Man killed by loose truck wheels on Interstate 5 Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Fans turn out to greet local 'Idol' finalist Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/health/7393876.html	Clinton Foundation deal to lower cost of AIDS drugs | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Health Clinton Foundation deal to lower cost of AIDS drugs Story Published: May 8, 2007 at 11:51 AM PDT Story Updated: May 8, 2007 at 11:51 AM PDT NEW YORK (AP) - Former President Bill Clinton announced agreements with drug companies Tuesday to lower the price of so-called "second-line" AIDS drugs for people in the developing world and to make a once-a-day AIDS pill available for less than $1 a day. The anti-retroviral drugs are needed by patients who develop resistance to first-line treatment and currently cost 10 times as much as first-line therapy, Clinton said. Nearly half a million patients will require these drugs by 2010. Clinton's foundation negotiated agreements with generic drug makers Cipla Ltd. and Matrix Laboratories Ltd. that he said would mean an average savings of 25 percent in low-income countries and 50 percent in middle-income countries. He said the companies collaborated with the foundation to lower production costs, in part by securing lower prices for raw materials. The reduced-price, once-daily pill combines the drugs tenofovir, lamivudine and efavirenz. Clinton said the new price of $339 per patient per year would be 45 percent lower than the current rate available to low-income countries and 67 percent less than the price available to many middle-income countries "Seven million people in the developing world are in need of treatment for HIV/AIDS," Clinton said. "We are trying to meet that need with the best medicine available today, and at prices that low and middle-income countries can afford." The Clinton Foundation's activities are being financed by UNITAID, an organization formed by France and 19 other nations that have earmarked a small portion of their airline tax revenues for HIV/AIDS programs in developing countries. UNITAID will provide the foundation with more than $100 million to buy second-line medicines for 27 countries through 2008. "Every person living with HIV deserves access to the most effective medicines, and UNITAID aims to ensure that these are affordable for all developing countries," French Foreign Minister Philippe Douste-Blazy, chairman of UNITAID's board, said in a statement. Since starting its HIV/AIDS Initiative in 2002, the Clinton Foundation has worked with 25 countries in Africa, the Caribbean and Asia to set up AIDS treatment and prevention programs. The foundation also provides access to lower-priced AIDS drugs in 65 countries. Some 750,000 people are now receiving AIDS drugs purchased through the Clinton Foundation. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Man killed by loose truck wheels on Interstate 5 Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Fans turn out to greet local 'Idol' finalist Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/health/7418606.html	Dentists say children's dental health has not improved | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Health Dentists say children's dental health has not improved Story Published: May 9, 2007 at 9:06 AM PDT Story Updated: May 9, 2007 at 9:06 AM PDT BEND, Ore. (AP) - Dental health may not be getting any worse for Oregon children, but dentists say they see few signs that it is improving. "I've seen a lot of it for a long time," said Dr. Cate Quas, a pediatric dentist in Bend who treats many Oregon Health Plan patients. "I see horrendous stuff in preschoolers." Quas said she recently pulled 10 of a little boy's 20 teeth because the decay was so extensive. She said the boy told her he looked like an old man so she made him a retainer with prosthetic teeth. "What happens is that families, they let the problem get too bad because they don't know where to go and they can't afford it. Of course it just snowballs and they end up with a toothache or an infection," said Vickie Matthews, coordinator of the Kemple Children's Clinic, which coordinates dental care for low-income children in Central Oregon. "We have had some kids here with life-threatening infections," Matthews said. According to a report released in November by the Oregon Department of Human Services, 56 percent of children ages 6 to 8 in Oregon have had dental caries, which is tooth decay that can lead to cavities. Nationwide, 50 percent of children in the same age group have experienced dental caries, although the overall prevalence of tooth decay in older children is decreasing. "Oregon has an oral disease burden. It's a silent epidemic," said Brett Hamilton, managing director of public and professional education for the Oregon Dental Association. "A lot of times people don't associate their mouth with their whole body or realize that their mouth is part of their overall health." Quas blames too much milk or sugary drinks for much of the problem. "The stuff you see in preschoolers is generally created when they are toddlers," she said. "It's not like between the ages of 2 and 5 the tooth decay becomes rampant." Some parents give their children juice in sippy cups and let them carry the sugary drink around all day, or put them to bed with milk in their bottles, Quas said. Sugars in the fluids coat the teeth, giving bacteria a chance to take hold. "The food pools on top of the teeth and the bacteria have a heyday," Quas said. "They have little parties all night long and eat into the teeth." Instead, Quas and other dentists recommend giving children water in sippy cups or bottles instead of drinks that are high in sugar. Often parents also don't realize that recommendations on dental care have changed, said Dr. Mike Shirtcliff, president and CEO of Northwest Dental Services in Redmond. The group of almost 300 Oregon dentists works to improve access to basic dental care in rural areas of the state. "The mythology in dentistry is you don't treat pregnant women unless it is an emergency and you don't treat kids until they are 30 months old," Shirtcliff said. But now the professional standard is to treat pregnant women, and babies should be seen before their first birthday. "We've been working hard to change the standard of care. It's going from old knowledge to new knowledge." Shirtcliff's organization works to educate and encourage dentists to treat more patients with Oregon Health Plan coverage. Because the Oregon Health Plan does not reimburse at as high a rate as other types of insurance, he said, sometimes dentists are reluctant to participate. In Central Oregon there are plenty of pediatric dentists, Shirtcliff said. But places like Douglas County, the Southern Oregon coast and areas of Eastern Oregon have a limited number of pediatric dentists to serve the population. Dentists also recommend fluoridation of drinking water to prevent decay. The Oregon Dental Association has been pushing the state Legislature for years to mandate that Oregon's drinking water be fluoridated, Hamilton said. "There seems to be more and more decay," said Dr. Dean Nyquist, a Bend dentist who sees many young children with serious dental problems. "Especially in our area where we do not have fluoride in the water. It makes a big difference." Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Man killed by loose truck wheels on Interstate 5 Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Fans turn out to greet local 'Idol' finalist Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/health/7418606.html	Dentists say children's dental health has not improved | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Health Dentists say children's dental health has not improved Story Published: May 9, 2007 at 9:06 AM PDT Story Updated: May 9, 2007 at 9:06 AM PDT BEND, Ore. (AP) - Dental health may not be getting any worse for Oregon children, but dentists say they see few signs that it is improving. "I've seen a lot of it for a long time," said Dr. Cate Quas, a pediatric dentist in Bend who treats many Oregon Health Plan patients. "I see horrendous stuff in preschoolers." Quas said she recently pulled 10 of a little boy's 20 teeth because the decay was so extensive. She said the boy told her he looked like an old man so she made him a retainer with prosthetic teeth. "What happens is that families, they let the problem get too bad because they don't know where to go and they can't afford it. Of course it just snowballs and they end up with a toothache or an infection," said Vickie Matthews, coordinator of the Kemple Children's Clinic, which coordinates dental care for low-income children in Central Oregon. "We have had some kids here with life-threatening infections," Matthews said. According to a report released in November by the Oregon Department of Human Services, 56 percent of children ages 6 to 8 in Oregon have had dental caries, which is tooth decay that can lead to cavities. Nationwide, 50 percent of children in the same age group have experienced dental caries, although the overall prevalence of tooth decay in older children is decreasing. "Oregon has an oral disease burden. It's a silent epidemic," said Brett Hamilton, managing director of public and professional education for the Oregon Dental Association. "A lot of times people don't associate their mouth with their whole body or realize that their mouth is part of their overall health." Quas blames too much milk or sugary drinks for much of the problem. "The stuff you see in preschoolers is generally created when they are toddlers," she said. "It's not like between the ages of 2 and 5 the tooth decay becomes rampant." Some parents give their children juice in sippy cups and let them carry the sugary drink around all day, or put them to bed with milk in their bottles, Quas said. Sugars in the fluids coat the teeth, giving bacteria a chance to take hold. "The food pools on top of the teeth and the bacteria have a heyday," Quas said. "They have little parties all night long and eat into the teeth." Instead, Quas and other dentists recommend giving children water in sippy cups or bottles instead of drinks that are high in sugar. Often parents also don't realize that recommendations on dental care have changed, said Dr. Mike Shirtcliff, president and CEO of Northwest Dental Services in Redmond. The group of almost 300 Oregon dentists works to improve access to basic dental care in rural areas of the state. "The mythology in dentistry is you don't treat pregnant women unless it is an emergency and you don't treat kids until they are 30 months old," Shirtcliff said. But now the professional standard is to treat pregnant women, and babies should be seen before their first birthday. "We've been working hard to change the standard of care. It's going from old knowledge to new knowledge." Shirtcliff's organization works to educate and encourage dentists to treat more patients with Oregon Health Plan coverage. Because the Oregon Health Plan does not reimburse at as high a rate as other types of insurance, he said, sometimes dentists are reluctant to participate. In Central Oregon there are plenty of pediatric dentists, Shirtcliff said. But places like Douglas County, the Southern Oregon coast and areas of Eastern Oregon have a limited number of pediatric dentists to serve the population. Dentists also recommend fluoridation of drinking water to prevent decay. The Oregon Dental Association has been pushing the state Legislature for years to mandate that Oregon's drinking water be fluoridated, Hamilton said. "There seems to be more and more decay," said Dr. Dean Nyquist, a Bend dentist who sees many young children with serious dental problems. "Especially in our area where we do not have fluoride in the water. It makes a big difference." Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Man killed by loose truck wheels on Interstate 5 Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Fans turn out to greet local 'Idol' finalist Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/health/7464652.html	Lose the ads, not the weight, says doctors' group | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Health Lose the ads, not the weight, says doctors' group Story Published: May 11, 2007 at 11:58 AM PDT Story Updated: May 11, 2007 at 11:58 AM PDT WASHINGTON (AP) - An ad campaign that suggested milk can help people lose weight is ending, the Federal Trade Commission told a doctors' group that had complained. The Physicians Committee for Responsible Medicine contended the weight loss claims were false and misleading. The group, in a 2005 petition, asked the commission to order a halt to the dairy advertisements. The agency did not take that step, but said in a letter to the committee that the groups behind the ads planned to end them. "It is obvious that the industry did not have a leg to stand on," Neal Barnard, president of the Washington-based doctors committee, said Thursday. His group advocates a vegan diet, which typically includes no animal products. The two marketing campaigns at issue involve the "Milk your diet. Lose Weight!" ads on television, Internet and in magazines, and the "3-A-Day. Burn More Fat, Lose Weight" ads, which are now mostly Web-based. The FTC, in a letter May 3 to the committee, said the agency met with Agriculture Department officials and representatives for the two campaigns, which decided "to discontinue all advertising and other marketing activities involving weight loss claims until further research provides stronger, more conclusive evidence." Susan Ruland, a spokeswoman for the "Milk your Diet" campaign, said there was nothing misleading about the ads. "We absolutely stand behind our weight loss campaign and the science supporting our messages," said Ruland, who represents the National Fluid Milk Processor Promotion Board. "There's a strong body of scientific evidence that demonstrates a connection between dairy and weight loss." Still, she said, the board plans to phase out the milk ads and focus the campaign instead on how dairy can help promote a healthy diet. The National Dairy Promotion and Research Board said it has already changed its "3-A-Day" campaign. The Agriculture Department, which has oversight of the two boards, had approved the ads. A spokesman said the agency supports the decision to pull back from the campaigns. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/health/7464652.html	Lose the ads, not the weight, says doctors' group | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Health Lose the ads, not the weight, says doctors' group Story Published: May 11, 2007 at 11:58 AM PDT Story Updated: May 11, 2007 at 11:58 AM PDT WASHINGTON (AP) - An ad campaign that suggested milk can help people lose weight is ending, the Federal Trade Commission told a doctors' group that had complained. The Physicians Committee for Responsible Medicine contended the weight loss claims were false and misleading. The group, in a 2005 petition, asked the commission to order a halt to the dairy advertisements. The agency did not take that step, but said in a letter to the committee that the groups behind the ads planned to end them. "It is obvious that the industry did not have a leg to stand on," Neal Barnard, president of the Washington-based doctors committee, said Thursday. His group advocates a vegan diet, which typically includes no animal products. The two marketing campaigns at issue involve the "Milk your diet. Lose Weight!" ads on television, Internet and in magazines, and the "3-A-Day. Burn More Fat, Lose Weight" ads, which are now mostly Web-based. The FTC, in a letter May 3 to the committee, said the agency met with Agriculture Department officials and representatives for the two campaigns, which decided "to discontinue all advertising and other marketing activities involving weight loss claims until further research provides stronger, more conclusive evidence." Susan Ruland, a spokeswoman for the "Milk your Diet" campaign, said there was nothing misleading about the ads. "We absolutely stand behind our weight loss campaign and the science supporting our messages," said Ruland, who represents the National Fluid Milk Processor Promotion Board. "There's a strong body of scientific evidence that demonstrates a connection between dairy and weight loss." Still, she said, the board plans to phase out the milk ads and focus the campaign instead on how dairy can help promote a healthy diet. The National Dairy Promotion and Research Board said it has already changed its "3-A-Day" campaign. The Agriculture Department, which has oversight of the two boards, had approved the ads. A spokesman said the agency supports the decision to pull back from the campaigns. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/health/7473132.html	Wis. calf born with two noses | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Health Wis. calf born with two noses Story Published: May 11, 2007 at 9:01 PM PDT Story Updated: May 12, 2007 at 5:02 PM PDT MERRILL, Wis. (AP) - Mark Krombholz had to look twice at his new calf, Lucy - one time for each nose. ''I didn't notice anything too different about her until I got her in the barn,'' Krombholz said, ''and all of a sudden I went to feed her a bottle of milk, and I thought maybe she'd been kicked in the nose and there were two noses there.'' The second, smaller nose sits on top of the first. ''It's a functioning nose because the middle of her second nose, the flap would go in and out when she drank out of the bottle like that,'' Krombholz said. ''It was kind of funny.'' Breeder Scott Grund said Lucy's noses seem to be working fine. ''It looked like she was comfortable laying there in her bedding and breathing and spunky just like you want to see,'' Grund said. ''It's just that she's got two noses.'' That kind of rare deformity is usually not the result of genetics, he said. But breeders do track such mutations. ''We'll fill out a form, send that on to the company in Shawano and they will keep record of it,'' Grund said. ''If by chance this would occur more than a few times, they would start looking at maybe the sire that we're using.'' Krombholz said Lucy, who was born May 4, will be a pet and bred if she's able. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/health/7473132.html	Wis. calf born with two noses | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Health Wis. calf born with two noses Story Published: May 11, 2007 at 9:01 PM PDT Story Updated: May 12, 2007 at 5:02 PM PDT MERRILL, Wis. (AP) - Mark Krombholz had to look twice at his new calf, Lucy - one time for each nose. ''I didn't notice anything too different about her until I got her in the barn,'' Krombholz said, ''and all of a sudden I went to feed her a bottle of milk, and I thought maybe she'd been kicked in the nose and there were two noses there.'' The second, smaller nose sits on top of the first. ''It's a functioning nose because the middle of her second nose, the flap would go in and out when she drank out of the bottle like that,'' Krombholz said. ''It was kind of funny.'' Breeder Scott Grund said Lucy's noses seem to be working fine. ''It looked like she was comfortable laying there in her bedding and breathing and spunky just like you want to see,'' Grund said. ''It's just that she's got two noses.'' That kind of rare deformity is usually not the result of genetics, he said. But breeders do track such mutations. ''We'll fill out a form, send that on to the company in Shawano and they will keep record of it,'' Grund said. ''If by chance this would occur more than a few times, they would start looking at maybe the sire that we're using.'' Krombholz said Lucy, who was born May 4, will be a pet and bred if she's able. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/health/7464627.html	Merck vaccine production problem means extra shot for kids | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Health Merck vaccine production problem means extra shot for kids Story Published: May 11, 2007 at 11:56 AM PDT Story Updated: May 11, 2007 at 11:56 AM PDT TRENTON, N.J. (AP) - Young children needing immunization against chickenpox and three other diseases likely will have to get an extra shot, due to manufacturing problems that have halted production of a four-disease combo vaccine made by Merck & Co. Merck said Thursday that its ProQuad vaccine, which protects against measles, mumps and rubella as well as chickenpox, won't be available from about July until at least year's end. "It's too early to say at this point whether new (ProQuad) supplies will be available in 2008," said Mary Elizabeth Blake, spokeswoman for Merck's vaccines division. However, the drugmaker expects to have plenty of two separate vaccines that cover the same diseases: Varivax, for chickenpox, and M-M-R II, for measles, mumps and rubella. The federal government recommends children get each of those shots twice, once at age 12 months to 15 months and again between ages four and six years old, or - when available - they can receive the ProQuad vaccine twice. Last year, the government recommended the second chickenpox shot because of outbreaks among schoolchildren, apparently due to waning potency of the vaccine. Whitehouse Station, N.J.-based Merck is the only U.S. source for vaccines against the varicella zoster virus, which causes chickenpox in children and shingles in adults. Blake said Merck decided to shift available supply of the key vaccine ingredient against chickenpox - live but weakened varicella virus - from ProQuad to Varivax and its shingles vaccine, Zostavax. The drugmaker recently informed the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention of its decision. "It makes sense to cut back on ProQuad first" because that requires more virus, said Dr. Lance Rodewald, director of the CDC's immunization services division. He said the agency had been assured there would be an adequate supply of both Varivax, with an expected demand of more than 8 million doses, and Merck's Zostavax vaccine against shingles. Zostavax was just approved last May and is recommended for all adults aged 60 and older. Shingles, also called herpes zoster, is a painful skin rash that strikes roughly one in four adults who previously had chickenpox. The government does not have a firm projection of demand for Zostavax, Rodewald said. According to the CDC, Merck charges private doctors about $45 for M-M-R II and $75 for Varivax, slightly less than the $125 price for ProQuad. All or most of the cost of getting the shots is generally covered by private insurance and the federal Vaccines for Children program for the poor. In trading on the New York Stock Exchange, Merck shares fell 97 cents to $51.08, near their 52-week high of $52.63. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/health/7464627.html	Merck vaccine production problem means extra shot for kids | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Health Merck vaccine production problem means extra shot for kids Story Published: May 11, 2007 at 11:56 AM PDT Story Updated: May 11, 2007 at 11:56 AM PDT TRENTON, N.J. (AP) - Young children needing immunization against chickenpox and three other diseases likely will have to get an extra shot, due to manufacturing problems that have halted production of a four-disease combo vaccine made by Merck & Co. Merck said Thursday that its ProQuad vaccine, which protects against measles, mumps and rubella as well as chickenpox, won't be available from about July until at least year's end. "It's too early to say at this point whether new (ProQuad) supplies will be available in 2008," said Mary Elizabeth Blake, spokeswoman for Merck's vaccines division. However, the drugmaker expects to have plenty of two separate vaccines that cover the same diseases: Varivax, for chickenpox, and M-M-R II, for measles, mumps and rubella. The federal government recommends children get each of those shots twice, once at age 12 months to 15 months and again between ages four and six years old, or - when available - they can receive the ProQuad vaccine twice. Last year, the government recommended the second chickenpox shot because of outbreaks among schoolchildren, apparently due to waning potency of the vaccine. Whitehouse Station, N.J.-based Merck is the only U.S. source for vaccines against the varicella zoster virus, which causes chickenpox in children and shingles in adults. Blake said Merck decided to shift available supply of the key vaccine ingredient against chickenpox - live but weakened varicella virus - from ProQuad to Varivax and its shingles vaccine, Zostavax. The drugmaker recently informed the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention of its decision. "It makes sense to cut back on ProQuad first" because that requires more virus, said Dr. Lance Rodewald, director of the CDC's immunization services division. He said the agency had been assured there would be an adequate supply of both Varivax, with an expected demand of more than 8 million doses, and Merck's Zostavax vaccine against shingles. Zostavax was just approved last May and is recommended for all adults aged 60 and older. Shingles, also called herpes zoster, is a painful skin rash that strikes roughly one in four adults who previously had chickenpox. The government does not have a firm projection of demand for Zostavax, Rodewald said. According to the CDC, Merck charges private doctors about $45 for M-M-R II and $75 for Varivax, slightly less than the $125 price for ProQuad. All or most of the cost of getting the shots is generally covered by private insurance and the federal Vaccines for Children program for the poor. In trading on the New York Stock Exchange, Merck shares fell 97 cents to $51.08, near their 52-week high of $52.63. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/health/7477752.html	Thin people may be fat inside | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Health Thin people may be fat inside This undated MRI scan image released by Imperial College, London, provides a detailed look at where fat is stored internally in the human body. Internal fat is shown as yellow, external fat is green and muscles are red. Story Published: May 12, 2007 at 12:43 PM PDT Story Updated: May 12, 2007 at 12:43 PM PDT LONDON (AP) - If it really is what's on the inside that counts, then a lot of thin people might be in trouble. Some doctors now think that the internal fat surrounding vital organs like the heart, liver or pancreas - invisible to the naked eye - could be as dangerous as the more obvious external fat that bulges underneath the skin. ''Being thin doesn't automatically mean you're not fat,'' said Dr. Jimmy Bell, a professor of molecular imaging at Imperial College, London. Since 1994, Bell and his team have scanned nearly 800 people with MRI machines to create ''fat maps'' showing where people store fat. According to the data, people who maintain their weight through diet rather than exercise are likely to have major deposits of internal fat, even if they are otherwise slim. ''The whole concept of being fat needs to be redefined,'' said Bell, whose research is funded by Britain's Medical Research Council. Without a clear warning signal - like a rounder middle - doctors worry that thin people may be lulled into falsely assuming that because they're not overweight, they're healthy. ''Just because someone is lean doesn't make them immune to diabetes or other risk factors for heart disease,'' said Dr. Louis Teichholz, chief of cardiology at Hackensack Hospital in New Jersey, who was not involved in Bell's research. Even people with normal Body Mass Index scores - a standard obesity measure that divides your weight by the square of your height - can have surprising levels of fat deposits inside. Of the women scanned by Bell and his colleagues, as many as 45 percent of those with normal BMI scores (20 to 25) actually had excessive levels of internal fat. Among men, the percentage was nearly 60 percent. Relating the news to what Bell calls ''TOFIs'' - people who are ''thin outside, fat inside'' - is rarely uneventful. ''The thinner people are, the bigger the surprise,'' he said, adding the researchers even found TOFIs among people who are professional models. According to Bell, people who are fat on the inside are essentially on the threshold of being obese. They eat too many fatty, sugary foods - and exercise too little to work it off _ but they are not eating enough to actually be fat. Scientists believe we naturally accumulate fat around the belly first, but at some point, the body may start storing it elsewhere. Still, most experts believe that being of normal weight is an indicator of good health, and that BMI is a reliable measurement. ''BMI won't give you the exact indication of where fat is, but it's a useful clinical tool,'' said Dr. Toni Steer, a nutritionist at Britain's Medical Research Council. Doctors are unsure about the exact dangers of internal fat, but some suspect it contributes to the risk of heart disease and diabetes. They theorize that internal fat disrupts the body's communication systems. The fat enveloping internal organs might be sending the body mistaken chemical signals to store fat inside organs like the liver or pancreas. This could ultimately lead to insulin resistance, type 2 diabetes, or heart disease. Experts have long known that fat, active people can be healthier than their skinny, inactive counterparts. ''Normal-weight persons who are sedentary and unfit are at much higher risk for mortality than obese persons who are active and fit,'' said Dr. Steven Blair, an obesity expert at the University of South Carolina. For example, despite their ripples of fat, super-sized Sumo wrestlers probably have a better metabolic profile than some of their slim, sedentary spectators, Bell said. That's because the wrestlers' fat is primarily stored under the skin, not streaking throughout their vital organs and muscles. The good news is that internal fat can be easily burned off through exercise or even by improving your diet. ''Even if you don't see it on your bathroom scale, caloric restriction and physical exercise have an aggressive effect on visceral fat,'' said Dr. Bob Ross, an obesity expert at Queen's University in Canada. Because many factors contribute to heart disease, Teichholz says it's difficult to determine the precise danger of internal fat - though it certainly doesn't help. ''Obesity is a risk factor, but it's lower down on the totem pole of risk factors,'' he said, explaining that whether or not people smoke, their family histories and blood pressure and cholesterol rates are more important determinants than both external and internal fat. When it comes to being fit, experts say there is no short-cut. ''If you just want to look thin, then maybe dieting is enough,'' Bell said. ''But if you want to actually be healthy, then exercise has to be an important component of your lifestyle.'' Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/health/7477752.html	Thin people may be fat inside | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Health Thin people may be fat inside This undated MRI scan image released by Imperial College, London, provides a detailed look at where fat is stored internally in the human body. Internal fat is shown as yellow, external fat is green and muscles are red. Story Published: May 12, 2007 at 12:43 PM PDT Story Updated: May 12, 2007 at 12:43 PM PDT LONDON (AP) - If it really is what's on the inside that counts, then a lot of thin people might be in trouble. Some doctors now think that the internal fat surrounding vital organs like the heart, liver or pancreas - invisible to the naked eye - could be as dangerous as the more obvious external fat that bulges underneath the skin. ''Being thin doesn't automatically mean you're not fat,'' said Dr. Jimmy Bell, a professor of molecular imaging at Imperial College, London. Since 1994, Bell and his team have scanned nearly 800 people with MRI machines to create ''fat maps'' showing where people store fat. According to the data, people who maintain their weight through diet rather than exercise are likely to have major deposits of internal fat, even if they are otherwise slim. ''The whole concept of being fat needs to be redefined,'' said Bell, whose research is funded by Britain's Medical Research Council. Without a clear warning signal - like a rounder middle - doctors worry that thin people may be lulled into falsely assuming that because they're not overweight, they're healthy. ''Just because someone is lean doesn't make them immune to diabetes or other risk factors for heart disease,'' said Dr. Louis Teichholz, chief of cardiology at Hackensack Hospital in New Jersey, who was not involved in Bell's research. Even people with normal Body Mass Index scores - a standard obesity measure that divides your weight by the square of your height - can have surprising levels of fat deposits inside. Of the women scanned by Bell and his colleagues, as many as 45 percent of those with normal BMI scores (20 to 25) actually had excessive levels of internal fat. Among men, the percentage was nearly 60 percent. Relating the news to what Bell calls ''TOFIs'' - people who are ''thin outside, fat inside'' - is rarely uneventful. ''The thinner people are, the bigger the surprise,'' he said, adding the researchers even found TOFIs among people who are professional models. According to Bell, people who are fat on the inside are essentially on the threshold of being obese. They eat too many fatty, sugary foods - and exercise too little to work it off _ but they are not eating enough to actually be fat. Scientists believe we naturally accumulate fat around the belly first, but at some point, the body may start storing it elsewhere. Still, most experts believe that being of normal weight is an indicator of good health, and that BMI is a reliable measurement. ''BMI won't give you the exact indication of where fat is, but it's a useful clinical tool,'' said Dr. Toni Steer, a nutritionist at Britain's Medical Research Council. Doctors are unsure about the exact dangers of internal fat, but some suspect it contributes to the risk of heart disease and diabetes. They theorize that internal fat disrupts the body's communication systems. The fat enveloping internal organs might be sending the body mistaken chemical signals to store fat inside organs like the liver or pancreas. This could ultimately lead to insulin resistance, type 2 diabetes, or heart disease. Experts have long known that fat, active people can be healthier than their skinny, inactive counterparts. ''Normal-weight persons who are sedentary and unfit are at much higher risk for mortality than obese persons who are active and fit,'' said Dr. Steven Blair, an obesity expert at the University of South Carolina. For example, despite their ripples of fat, super-sized Sumo wrestlers probably have a better metabolic profile than some of their slim, sedentary spectators, Bell said. That's because the wrestlers' fat is primarily stored under the skin, not streaking throughout their vital organs and muscles. The good news is that internal fat can be easily burned off through exercise or even by improving your diet. ''Even if you don't see it on your bathroom scale, caloric restriction and physical exercise have an aggressive effect on visceral fat,'' said Dr. Bob Ross, an obesity expert at Queen's University in Canada. Because many factors contribute to heart disease, Teichholz says it's difficult to determine the precise danger of internal fat - though it certainly doesn't help. ''Obesity is a risk factor, but it's lower down on the totem pole of risk factors,'' he said, explaining that whether or not people smoke, their family histories and blood pressure and cholesterol rates are more important determinants than both external and internal fat. When it comes to being fit, experts say there is no short-cut. ''If you just want to look thin, then maybe dieting is enough,'' Bell said. ''But if you want to actually be healthy, then exercise has to be an important component of your lifestyle.'' Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/health	KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Health Professors say new protein can stop spread of certain cancers Two professors at the University of Oklahoma say they've developed a protein that can stop the spread of certain cancer cells without damaging normal cells. FDA: FluMist effective for kids under 5 The vaccine, Flumist, was once thought to be a possible blockbuster drug, but has had modest sales because approved use is limited to healthy people between the age of 5 and 49 years old. Young boy receives new heart after getting rare implanted pump An 8-year-old boy from Mexico received a new heart Monday to replace his diseased one, after spending weeks in a Texas intensive care unit and getting a rare implanted heart pump in Arkansas. Doctors increasingly trying to diagnose mental disorders in babies Blood pressure rising around the globe, not just in Western world Plan would mandate HIV tests for pregnant women and newborns in N.J. Thin people may be fat inside Wis. calf born with two noses Lose the ads, not the weight, says doctors' group Merck vaccine production problem means extra shot for kids Purdue Pharma executives plead guilty to misleading public about OxyContin addiction FDA approves patch to treat early Parkinson's symptoms Study links lung scarring disease to post-Sept. 11 WTC work Dentists say children's dental health has not improved Farmed fish fed contaminated material linked to pet food recall VA urged to improve testing, compensation for veterans with stress disorder Clinton Foundation deal to lower cost of AIDS drugs Drug maker to pay $19.5 million over OxyContin promotion Millions of dollars intended for poor probably stayed with insurers, investigators say Study suggests coping strategies for childhood immunizations Report: Chinese factory made chemical in tainted medicine linked to Panama deaths Cancer survivor, 75, skis to North Pole FDA seeks antidepressant suicide warning Bush extolls benefits of exercise, then hops on bike 20 Million chickens held because of feed Brazil to bypass patent on U.S. AIDS drug Researchers announce possible new treatment for autism Will face masks help during a super-flu? Scientists say don't count on it Researchers examine bio-magnetic Sensors Celebrities boost lemon detox fad, but it may not be good for your health Canada confirms new mad cow case Study: Hormones may ward off dementia Studies hint at unexpected heart rhythm problem with bone-building drugs Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/health	KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Health Professors say new protein can stop spread of certain cancers Two professors at the University of Oklahoma say they've developed a protein that can stop the spread of certain cancer cells without damaging normal cells. FDA: FluMist effective for kids under 5 The vaccine, Flumist, was once thought to be a possible blockbuster drug, but has had modest sales because approved use is limited to healthy people between the age of 5 and 49 years old. Young boy receives new heart after getting rare implanted pump An 8-year-old boy from Mexico received a new heart Monday to replace his diseased one, after spending weeks in a Texas intensive care unit and getting a rare implanted heart pump in Arkansas. Doctors increasingly trying to diagnose mental disorders in babies Blood pressure rising around the globe, not just in Western world Plan would mandate HIV tests for pregnant women and newborns in N.J. Thin people may be fat inside Wis. calf born with two noses Lose the ads, not the weight, says doctors' group Merck vaccine production problem means extra shot for kids Purdue Pharma executives plead guilty to misleading public about OxyContin addiction FDA approves patch to treat early Parkinson's symptoms Study links lung scarring disease to post-Sept. 11 WTC work Dentists say children's dental health has not improved Farmed fish fed contaminated material linked to pet food recall VA urged to improve testing, compensation for veterans with stress disorder Clinton Foundation deal to lower cost of AIDS drugs Drug maker to pay $19.5 million over OxyContin promotion Millions of dollars intended for poor probably stayed with insurers, investigators say Study suggests coping strategies for childhood immunizations Report: Chinese factory made chemical in tainted medicine linked to Panama deaths Cancer survivor, 75, skis to North Pole FDA seeks antidepressant suicide warning Bush extolls benefits of exercise, then hops on bike 20 Million chickens held because of feed Brazil to bypass patent on U.S. AIDS drug Researchers announce possible new treatment for autism Will face masks help during a super-flu? Scientists say don't count on it Researchers examine bio-magnetic Sensors Celebrities boost lemon detox fad, but it may not be good for your health Canada confirms new mad cow case Study: Hormones may ward off dementia Studies hint at unexpected heart rhythm problem with bone-building drugs Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/health/7500022.html	Doctors increasingly trying to diagnose mental disorders in babies | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Health Doctors increasingly trying to diagnose mental disorders in babies Story Published: May 14, 2007 at 1:50 PM PDT Story Updated: May 14, 2007 at 1:50 PM PDT CHICAGO (AP) - Within days of their birth, healthy babies will look you in the eye. By 4 months, they will delight in others. And by 9 months, they will exchange smiles. Jacob Day did none of those things. "We used to say it was like it burned his eyes to look at you," said his mother, Tamie Day of Antelope, Calif. "It was like a physically painful thing for him. It wasn't just that he wasn't looking at us; he was purposefully looking away." Day, who has a psychology degree, suspected her son might have autism. She enrolled him in a study, published in April, that found that babies like Jacob are indeed at high risk for autism if they do not respond to their names by 12 months of age. At 18 months, he was formally diagnosed with autism, about a year earlier than usual. Before he turned 2, Jacob began daily intensive behavior treatment designed to help him lead a more normal life. He is part of a growing field in psychiatry called infant mental health. Doctors and scientists are increasingly looking for early signs in babies of autism, attention deficit disorder and other mental problems that just a generation ago, scarcely anyone thought could appear in children so young. Some scientists even believe that intensive treatment in some susceptible babies can actually prevent autism, attention deficit disorder and other problems. An influential Institute of Medicine report in 2000 helped energize this idea. The report emphasized the plasticity of babies' brains. It also explained how interacting with babies can change their brain wiring. "We used to say `nature versus nurture,' but now people really think it's 'nature through nurture,"' said the University of Chicago's Dr. Lawrence Gray. Tamie Day noticed the first ominous clue the night she and her husband, Chris, brought Jacob home after his birth. "We walked in the door and he wouldn't stop looking at our ceiling fan," she said. "The next day, that's all he would look at." Babies typically begin making eye contact soon after birth, and "understand at a basic, perhaps hardwired level, that eyes are special - they look more at eyes than at other parts of the face," said Sally Ozonoff, an autism specialist at the University of California at Davis' MIND Institute. When his mother expressed her autism concerns at Jacob's 6-month checkup, the doctor said "we were being a little overzealous," Day said. Still, there was no pointing, no clapping, no shared smiles, and when Jacob would laugh, it seemed like his own private joke. So his parents sought out UC-Davis specialists, who gave them the heartbreaking diagnosis. Jacob, now 3, has made meaningful progress thanks to treatment, his mother said, including a breakthrough moment at age 2. It still makes her cry to recall it. She was giving Jacob a bath, playing the "itsy bitsy spider" finger game, when he looked up and really gazed into her eyes. "He was smiling up at me and I realized that was the first time he had done that," she said. "He has gorgeous blue eyes, and I was like, `My God, your eyes are so beautiful."' Interest in infant mental health has been boosted by awareness of the prevalence of attention deficit disorders and autism, which government officials said in February affects 1 in 150 U.S. children and may be more common than previously thought. In April, researchers from the federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the Interdisciplinary Council on Developmental and Learning Disorders presented a report emphasizing earlier diagnosis and treatment. The report said that about 17 percent of U.S. children have a developmental disability such as autism, mental retardation and attention deficit-hyperactivity disorder, but that fewer than half are diagnosed before starting school. The authors say warning signs include failure to: -focus on sights and sounds by 2 months. -initiate joyful behavior with parents by 4 months. -exchange smiles and sounds with parents by 8 to 9 months. -take a parent's hand to find a toy and point to objects by 12 to 16 months. Last year, the American Academy of Pediatrics recommended that pediatricians routinely evaluate children for developmental problems such as autism starting in infancy, and begin testing at age 9 months. "Waiting until a young child misses a major milestone such as walking or talking may result in late rather than early recognition ... depriving the child and family of the benefits of early identification and intervention," the academy said. Some critics worry that the trend will trigger needless diagnoses in children with normal variations in behavior. Dr. Michael Fitzpatrick, a London physician, said that while early recognition and treatment of true disorders are important, "the extension of these categories to include 20 to 30 percent of all children reflects a social trend of pathologizing and medicalizing children's lives, which seems to reflect difficulties of parents and teachers in dealing with familiar problems of childhood development." Dr. Stanley Greenspan, a psychiatry professor at George Washington University who co-authored the CDC-Interdisciplinary group report, said the idea is not to slap a label on babies and give them medication. Greenspan said the goal is to raise awareness about early warning signs and to encourage treatment to increase the chances that children can develop normally. Research on identifying early clues and testing treatments is booming. For example: -Dr. Fred Volkmar at Yale University is studying potential ways to diagnose autism in the first months of life, including whether looking at objects rather than people is a sign. "I think we're on the verge of being able to do a much better job" of diagnosing autism in infancy, Volkmar said. -Researcher Stephen Porges at the University of Illinois at Chicago is starting a five-year study of whether excessive crying past 6 months of age might be an early sign of autism, attention deficit or other behavior problems. -Greenspan is launching a multimillion-dollar study involving parents and babies at risk for autism or attention deficit disorder. One group will receive intensive behavior training, the other will not; both will be compared through age 5. While rigorous scientific evidence is needed to prove that early intervention succeeds, Greenspan said his work with patients has shown promise. Jacob didn't say his first word, "more," until he was in treatment and almost 2 - about a year later than normal. He didn't say "mama" until he was 3. He gets 33 hours of weekly home treatment with trained college students, including six hours most days. The tab is $70,000 yearly, paid for by California, one of the few states that pay, through state and federal funds, for early intensive autism treatment. Jacob's sessions involve lots of repetition, and rewards, including praise and treats, for a job well done. For example, to improve eye contact, teachers bounce him on a favorite giant ball, then stop. If he turns to look at them, he gets praise, maybe a piece of candy, and more bouncing. To teach language, they use activities like swinging that get him excited enough to make sounds, then offer rewards for sounds like vowels or consonants rather than humming. Then they name objects, encourage mimicking, and offer more rewards. Now he knows the alphabet, understands commands like "Bring me the cow and the horse toy," and can say simple sentences like "I want juice," his mother said. "We definitely hope to mainstream him. We hope that he will have a job and have a life where he can take care of himself and be happy," Day said. "Everyone has given us reason to believe that's not an outlandish expectation." Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Seattle cruise ship evacuated after hitting rock Family has questions after man is found dead Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/health/7500022.html	Doctors increasingly trying to diagnose mental disorders in babies | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Health Doctors increasingly trying to diagnose mental disorders in babies Story Published: May 14, 2007 at 1:50 PM PDT Story Updated: May 14, 2007 at 1:50 PM PDT CHICAGO (AP) - Within days of their birth, healthy babies will look you in the eye. By 4 months, they will delight in others. And by 9 months, they will exchange smiles. Jacob Day did none of those things. "We used to say it was like it burned his eyes to look at you," said his mother, Tamie Day of Antelope, Calif. "It was like a physically painful thing for him. It wasn't just that he wasn't looking at us; he was purposefully looking away." Day, who has a psychology degree, suspected her son might have autism. She enrolled him in a study, published in April, that found that babies like Jacob are indeed at high risk for autism if they do not respond to their names by 12 months of age. At 18 months, he was formally diagnosed with autism, about a year earlier than usual. Before he turned 2, Jacob began daily intensive behavior treatment designed to help him lead a more normal life. He is part of a growing field in psychiatry called infant mental health. Doctors and scientists are increasingly looking for early signs in babies of autism, attention deficit disorder and other mental problems that just a generation ago, scarcely anyone thought could appear in children so young. Some scientists even believe that intensive treatment in some susceptible babies can actually prevent autism, attention deficit disorder and other problems. An influential Institute of Medicine report in 2000 helped energize this idea. The report emphasized the plasticity of babies' brains. It also explained how interacting with babies can change their brain wiring. "We used to say `nature versus nurture,' but now people really think it's 'nature through nurture,"' said the University of Chicago's Dr. Lawrence Gray. Tamie Day noticed the first ominous clue the night she and her husband, Chris, brought Jacob home after his birth. "We walked in the door and he wouldn't stop looking at our ceiling fan," she said. "The next day, that's all he would look at." Babies typically begin making eye contact soon after birth, and "understand at a basic, perhaps hardwired level, that eyes are special - they look more at eyes than at other parts of the face," said Sally Ozonoff, an autism specialist at the University of California at Davis' MIND Institute. When his mother expressed her autism concerns at Jacob's 6-month checkup, the doctor said "we were being a little overzealous," Day said. Still, there was no pointing, no clapping, no shared smiles, and when Jacob would laugh, it seemed like his own private joke. So his parents sought out UC-Davis specialists, who gave them the heartbreaking diagnosis. Jacob, now 3, has made meaningful progress thanks to treatment, his mother said, including a breakthrough moment at age 2. It still makes her cry to recall it. She was giving Jacob a bath, playing the "itsy bitsy spider" finger game, when he looked up and really gazed into her eyes. "He was smiling up at me and I realized that was the first time he had done that," she said. "He has gorgeous blue eyes, and I was like, `My God, your eyes are so beautiful."' Interest in infant mental health has been boosted by awareness of the prevalence of attention deficit disorders and autism, which government officials said in February affects 1 in 150 U.S. children and may be more common than previously thought. In April, researchers from the federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the Interdisciplinary Council on Developmental and Learning Disorders presented a report emphasizing earlier diagnosis and treatment. The report said that about 17 percent of U.S. children have a developmental disability such as autism, mental retardation and attention deficit-hyperactivity disorder, but that fewer than half are diagnosed before starting school. The authors say warning signs include failure to: -focus on sights and sounds by 2 months. -initiate joyful behavior with parents by 4 months. -exchange smiles and sounds with parents by 8 to 9 months. -take a parent's hand to find a toy and point to objects by 12 to 16 months. Last year, the American Academy of Pediatrics recommended that pediatricians routinely evaluate children for developmental problems such as autism starting in infancy, and begin testing at age 9 months. "Waiting until a young child misses a major milestone such as walking or talking may result in late rather than early recognition ... depriving the child and family of the benefits of early identification and intervention," the academy said. Some critics worry that the trend will trigger needless diagnoses in children with normal variations in behavior. Dr. Michael Fitzpatrick, a London physician, said that while early recognition and treatment of true disorders are important, "the extension of these categories to include 20 to 30 percent of all children reflects a social trend of pathologizing and medicalizing children's lives, which seems to reflect difficulties of parents and teachers in dealing with familiar problems of childhood development." Dr. Stanley Greenspan, a psychiatry professor at George Washington University who co-authored the CDC-Interdisciplinary group report, said the idea is not to slap a label on babies and give them medication. Greenspan said the goal is to raise awareness about early warning signs and to encourage treatment to increase the chances that children can develop normally. Research on identifying early clues and testing treatments is booming. For example: -Dr. Fred Volkmar at Yale University is studying potential ways to diagnose autism in the first months of life, including whether looking at objects rather than people is a sign. "I think we're on the verge of being able to do a much better job" of diagnosing autism in infancy, Volkmar said. -Researcher Stephen Porges at the University of Illinois at Chicago is starting a five-year study of whether excessive crying past 6 months of age might be an early sign of autism, attention deficit or other behavior problems. -Greenspan is launching a multimillion-dollar study involving parents and babies at risk for autism or attention deficit disorder. One group will receive intensive behavior training, the other will not; both will be compared through age 5. While rigorous scientific evidence is needed to prove that early intervention succeeds, Greenspan said his work with patients has shown promise. Jacob didn't say his first word, "more," until he was in treatment and almost 2 - about a year later than normal. He didn't say "mama" until he was 3. He gets 33 hours of weekly home treatment with trained college students, including six hours most days. The tab is $70,000 yearly, paid for by California, one of the few states that pay, through state and federal funds, for early intensive autism treatment. Jacob's sessions involve lots of repetition, and rewards, including praise and treats, for a job well done. For example, to improve eye contact, teachers bounce him on a favorite giant ball, then stop. If he turns to look at them, he gets praise, maybe a piece of candy, and more bouncing. To teach language, they use activities like swinging that get him excited enough to make sounds, then offer rewards for sounds like vowels or consonants rather than humming. Then they name objects, encourage mimicking, and offer more rewards. Now he knows the alphabet, understands commands like "Bring me the cow and the horse toy," and can say simple sentences like "I want juice," his mother said. "We definitely hope to mainstream him. We hope that he will have a job and have a life where he can take care of himself and be happy," Day said. "Everyone has given us reason to believe that's not an outlandish expectation." Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Seattle cruise ship evacuated after hitting rock Family has questions after man is found dead Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/health/7495687.html	Plan would mandate HIV tests for pregnant women and newborns in N.J. | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Health Plan would mandate HIV tests for pregnant women and newborns in N.J. Story Published: May 14, 2007 at 9:09 AM PDT Story Updated: May 14, 2007 at 9:09 AM PDT TRENTON, N.J. (AP) - New Jersey would become the first state to require both pregnant women and newborns to be tested for HIV under a proposal introduced by the Senate president. The bill would require all pregnant women be tested for HIV twice, once early in the pregnancy and a second time in the third trimester. Every birthing facility in the state would have to test all newborns in their care. Senate President Richard J. Codey introduced the legislation on Thursday, which he described as a "no brainer." The Associated Press first reported on Codey's plan in March. "The key in the fight against HIV and AIDS is early detection and treatment," Codey said Friday. "For newborns this can be a lifesaving measure." Codey, D-Essex, said the bill stems from a Centers for Disease Control and Prevention report that found medical treatment during pregnancy can dramatically cut mother-to-child HIV transmission. The Center for Women Policy Studies, a Washington, D.C.-based feminist advocacy organization, opposes mandatory HIV testing, arguing it violates a woman's right to make their own childbearing and medical treatment decisions. Current New Jersey law requires providers only to offer HIV testing to pregnant women. Under Codey's proposal, the test would be given unless the mother chooses, in writing, not to have it. According to the Kaiser Foundation, a nonprofit research organization focusing on U.S. health care issues, four states - Arkansas, Michigan, Tennessee and Texas - require health care providers to test a mother for HIV, unless the mother specifically asks not to be tested. Connecticut and New York are the only states that test all newborns for HIV, according to the foundation. New Jersey has some of the highest rates in the nation for AIDS cases, women with AIDS and pediatric HIV and AIDS cases, according to the foundation. Codey's bill will be scheduled for hearings in the coming weeks. To become law, it must be approved by both the state Senate and Assembly, and then signed by the governor. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/health/7495687.html	Plan would mandate HIV tests for pregnant women and newborns in N.J. | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Health Plan would mandate HIV tests for pregnant women and newborns in N.J. Story Published: May 14, 2007 at 9:09 AM PDT Story Updated: May 14, 2007 at 9:09 AM PDT TRENTON, N.J. (AP) - New Jersey would become the first state to require both pregnant women and newborns to be tested for HIV under a proposal introduced by the Senate president. The bill would require all pregnant women be tested for HIV twice, once early in the pregnancy and a second time in the third trimester. Every birthing facility in the state would have to test all newborns in their care. Senate President Richard J. Codey introduced the legislation on Thursday, which he described as a "no brainer." The Associated Press first reported on Codey's plan in March. "The key in the fight against HIV and AIDS is early detection and treatment," Codey said Friday. "For newborns this can be a lifesaving measure." Codey, D-Essex, said the bill stems from a Centers for Disease Control and Prevention report that found medical treatment during pregnancy can dramatically cut mother-to-child HIV transmission. The Center for Women Policy Studies, a Washington, D.C.-based feminist advocacy organization, opposes mandatory HIV testing, arguing it violates a woman's right to make their own childbearing and medical treatment decisions. Current New Jersey law requires providers only to offer HIV testing to pregnant women. Under Codey's proposal, the test would be given unless the mother chooses, in writing, not to have it. According to the Kaiser Foundation, a nonprofit research organization focusing on U.S. health care issues, four states - Arkansas, Michigan, Tennessee and Texas - require health care providers to test a mother for HIV, unless the mother specifically asks not to be tested. Connecticut and New York are the only states that test all newborns for HIV, according to the foundation. New Jersey has some of the highest rates in the nation for AIDS cases, women with AIDS and pediatric HIV and AIDS cases, according to the foundation. Codey's bill will be scheduled for hearings in the coming weeks. To become law, it must be approved by both the state Senate and Assembly, and then signed by the governor. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/health/7499992.html	Blood pressure rising around the globe, not just in Western world | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Health Blood pressure rising around the globe, not just in Western world Story Published: May 14, 2007 at 1:49 PM PDT Story Updated: May 14, 2007 at 1:49 PM PDT WASHINGTON (AP) - The numbers are a shock: Almost 1 billion people worldwide have high blood pressure, and over half a billion more will harbor this silent killer by 2025. It's not just a problem for the ever-fattening Western world. Even in parts of Africa, high blood pressure is becoming common. That translates into millions of deaths from heart disease alone. Yet hypertension doesn't command the attention of, say, bird flu, which so far has killed fewer than 200 people. "Hypertension has gone a bit out of fashion," says Dr. Jan Ostergren of Sweden's Karolinska University Hospital, who co-authored a first-of-its-kind analysis of the global impact of high blood pressure. The idea: to rev up world governments to fight bad blood pressure just as countries have banded together in the past to fight infectious diseases. International heart specialists welcome the push. "Even in the U.S., the majority of people with high blood pressure are not treated adequately," says Dr. Sidney Smith of the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, who advises the World Heart Federation. "Look at China, look at Africa, go around the world. It is a major risk factor." And the dangers go well beyond the heart. High blood pressure is a leading cause of strokes and kidney failure. It also plays a role in blindness and even dementia. Patients seldom notice symptoms until organs already have been damaged. Yet treating high blood pressure before that happens is a medical best-buy. Improving diet and exercise can help. When that's not enough, blood pressure drugs are among the oldest and thus cheapest on the market - 21 cents a day for a leading diuretic. Ostergren joined experts from the London School of Economics and the State University of New York to assemble two teams of specialists and map what they call the coming crisis of hypertension: 1.56 billion people are expected to have it by 2025. With funding from drug maker Novartis Pharma AG, they're providing copies to governments and health officials around the globe; a briefing in Washington is set for Thursday. The report essentially calls for a cultural change. Consider: In the U.S., commiserating over blood pressure readings is an accepted dinner-table topic. Because black Americans are at especially high risk - roughly 40 percent are affected - hypertension has become a sermon topic at majority-black churches, and post-service screenings aren't uncommon. The government even advertises about the condition. That adds up to an openness about blood pressure not seen in much of the world, says report co-author Dr. Michael Weber of SUNY's Downstate College of Medicine. In some regions, "it's sort of an insult to your manhood if you have to take a blood-pressure medicine," Weber says, citing estimates that hypertension affects about one in three adults in Mexico, Paraguay and Venezuela. "We need to break those barriers as well and make it perfectly fashionable. We need to get role models in those countries to say, 'You know what? I've got high blood pressure."' The U.S. still needs to improve, too, Weber hastens to add. High blood pressure affects nearly one in three adult Americans as well, or 72 million people. About a third have their condition well-controlled, not nearly enough but better than other countries that track treatment, the report found. Normal blood pressure is measured at less than 120 over 80. Anyone can get high blood pressure, a level of 140 over 90 or more. But being overweight and inactive, and eating too much salt, all increase the risk. So does getting older. The world's population is aging and fattening, fueling a continued increase in blood pressure problems. Remarkably, the report cites worse hypertension rates in much of Western Europe than in the U.S., despite cultural similarities: 38 percent in England, Sweden and Italy; 45 percent in Spain; 55 percent in Germany. But the biggest jump is expected in developing countries and nations rapidly moving to more Western-style economies, the report warns. In parts of India, studies suggest one in three urban adults has high blood pressure, while it's still rare in rural areas with more traditional lifestyles. More than a quarter of adults in China have hypertension. So do one in four in Ghana and South Africa. Treatment is difficult, because patients often quit their medicine, not understanding it's necessary even when they feel good. Also, doctors may be reluctant to prescribe the two- or three-drug combinations that half of patients wind up needing. For poorer countries, the tab for even low-cost diuretics is an issue - not to mention public education about sticking to treatment, notes Smith, the World Heart Federation adviser, who was not involved in the new report. But fighting bad blood pressure could mean that developing countries avoid epidemics of full-blown heart disease, which they definitely can't afford, Smith stresses. World health and economic groups already are brainstorming strategies to help, such as whether industries that move into poor countries should be required to screen their workers for high blood pressure. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/health/7499992.html	Blood pressure rising around the globe, not just in Western world | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Health Blood pressure rising around the globe, not just in Western world Story Published: May 14, 2007 at 1:49 PM PDT Story Updated: May 14, 2007 at 1:49 PM PDT WASHINGTON (AP) - The numbers are a shock: Almost 1 billion people worldwide have high blood pressure, and over half a billion more will harbor this silent killer by 2025. It's not just a problem for the ever-fattening Western world. Even in parts of Africa, high blood pressure is becoming common. That translates into millions of deaths from heart disease alone. Yet hypertension doesn't command the attention of, say, bird flu, which so far has killed fewer than 200 people. "Hypertension has gone a bit out of fashion," says Dr. Jan Ostergren of Sweden's Karolinska University Hospital, who co-authored a first-of-its-kind analysis of the global impact of high blood pressure. The idea: to rev up world governments to fight bad blood pressure just as countries have banded together in the past to fight infectious diseases. International heart specialists welcome the push. "Even in the U.S., the majority of people with high blood pressure are not treated adequately," says Dr. Sidney Smith of the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, who advises the World Heart Federation. "Look at China, look at Africa, go around the world. It is a major risk factor." And the dangers go well beyond the heart. High blood pressure is a leading cause of strokes and kidney failure. It also plays a role in blindness and even dementia. Patients seldom notice symptoms until organs already have been damaged. Yet treating high blood pressure before that happens is a medical best-buy. Improving diet and exercise can help. When that's not enough, blood pressure drugs are among the oldest and thus cheapest on the market - 21 cents a day for a leading diuretic. Ostergren joined experts from the London School of Economics and the State University of New York to assemble two teams of specialists and map what they call the coming crisis of hypertension: 1.56 billion people are expected to have it by 2025. With funding from drug maker Novartis Pharma AG, they're providing copies to governments and health officials around the globe; a briefing in Washington is set for Thursday. The report essentially calls for a cultural change. Consider: In the U.S., commiserating over blood pressure readings is an accepted dinner-table topic. Because black Americans are at especially high risk - roughly 40 percent are affected - hypertension has become a sermon topic at majority-black churches, and post-service screenings aren't uncommon. The government even advertises about the condition. That adds up to an openness about blood pressure not seen in much of the world, says report co-author Dr. Michael Weber of SUNY's Downstate College of Medicine. In some regions, "it's sort of an insult to your manhood if you have to take a blood-pressure medicine," Weber says, citing estimates that hypertension affects about one in three adults in Mexico, Paraguay and Venezuela. "We need to break those barriers as well and make it perfectly fashionable. We need to get role models in those countries to say, 'You know what? I've got high blood pressure."' The U.S. still needs to improve, too, Weber hastens to add. High blood pressure affects nearly one in three adult Americans as well, or 72 million people. About a third have their condition well-controlled, not nearly enough but better than other countries that track treatment, the report found. Normal blood pressure is measured at less than 120 over 80. Anyone can get high blood pressure, a level of 140 over 90 or more. But being overweight and inactive, and eating too much salt, all increase the risk. So does getting older. The world's population is aging and fattening, fueling a continued increase in blood pressure problems. Remarkably, the report cites worse hypertension rates in much of Western Europe than in the U.S., despite cultural similarities: 38 percent in England, Sweden and Italy; 45 percent in Spain; 55 percent in Germany. But the biggest jump is expected in developing countries and nations rapidly moving to more Western-style economies, the report warns. In parts of India, studies suggest one in three urban adults has high blood pressure, while it's still rare in rural areas with more traditional lifestyles. More than a quarter of adults in China have hypertension. So do one in four in Ghana and South Africa. Treatment is difficult, because patients often quit their medicine, not understanding it's necessary even when they feel good. Also, doctors may be reluctant to prescribe the two- or three-drug combinations that half of patients wind up needing. For poorer countries, the tab for even low-cost diuretics is an issue - not to mention public education about sticking to treatment, notes Smith, the World Heart Federation adviser, who was not involved in the new report. But fighting bad blood pressure could mean that developing countries avoid epidemics of full-blown heart disease, which they definitely can't afford, Smith stresses. World health and economic groups already are brainstorming strategies to help, such as whether industries that move into poor countries should be required to screen their workers for high blood pressure. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/health/7513462.html	FDA: FluMist effective for kids under 5 | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Health FDA: FluMist effective for kids under 5 Story Published: May 15, 2007 at 9:20 AM PDT Story Updated: May 15, 2007 at 9:20 AM PDT WASHINGTON (AP) - Federal regulators say MedImmune's nasal spray flu vaccine is effective for children under age 5, even though it may increase the risk of respiratory problems. The vaccine, Flumist, was once thought to be a possible blockbuster drug, but has had modest sales because approved use is limited to healthy people between the age of 5 and 49 years old. MedImmune wants Food and Drug Administration approval to market the nasal spray vaccine to young children, which could provide a major revenue boost for the company since the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommends children between 6 months and six years old get an annual influenza virus vaccine. Flumist sales totaled $36.4 million last year, well behind MedImmune's top-selling respiratory virus drug Synagis, which posted sales of $1.1 billion. The FDA said in documents posted to its Web site Monday that the vaccine appears to prevent influenza in children as young as six months. However, reviewers also noted that children taking MedImmune's nasal spray vaccine were more likely to develop wheezing problems when compared to children treated with an injectable vaccine. According to one FDA-reviewed study, about 3 percent of children 6 months to 1 year old who took Flumist were hospitalized for respiratory problems compared to 1 percent of children that age who took the injected vaccine. Although the respiratory problems did not cause any deaths, FDA will ask a panel of outside experts Wednesday whether the side effects warrant limiting the vaccine's use in young children. FDA is not obligated to follow the panel's recommendation though it usually does. Earlier this year MedImmune won the FDA's OK to market a new version of Flumist, which was first approved in 2003, that can be stored in refrigerators instead of freezers. The company said the new formulation should expand the vaccine's use and will be available for the 2007-2008 flu season. Last month, Gaithersburg, Md.-based MedImmune agreed to be bought out by British drug maker AstraZeneca for $15.6 billion. The deal is expected to close in June. Shares of MedImmune Inc. rose 2 cents to close at $57.02 on the Nasdaq Stock Market. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/health/7513462.html	FDA: FluMist effective for kids under 5 | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Health FDA: FluMist effective for kids under 5 Story Published: May 15, 2007 at 9:20 AM PDT Story Updated: May 15, 2007 at 9:20 AM PDT WASHINGTON (AP) - Federal regulators say MedImmune's nasal spray flu vaccine is effective for children under age 5, even though it may increase the risk of respiratory problems. The vaccine, Flumist, was once thought to be a possible blockbuster drug, but has had modest sales because approved use is limited to healthy people between the age of 5 and 49 years old. MedImmune wants Food and Drug Administration approval to market the nasal spray vaccine to young children, which could provide a major revenue boost for the company since the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommends children between 6 months and six years old get an annual influenza virus vaccine. Flumist sales totaled $36.4 million last year, well behind MedImmune's top-selling respiratory virus drug Synagis, which posted sales of $1.1 billion. The FDA said in documents posted to its Web site Monday that the vaccine appears to prevent influenza in children as young as six months. However, reviewers also noted that children taking MedImmune's nasal spray vaccine were more likely to develop wheezing problems when compared to children treated with an injectable vaccine. According to one FDA-reviewed study, about 3 percent of children 6 months to 1 year old who took Flumist were hospitalized for respiratory problems compared to 1 percent of children that age who took the injected vaccine. Although the respiratory problems did not cause any deaths, FDA will ask a panel of outside experts Wednesday whether the side effects warrant limiting the vaccine's use in young children. FDA is not obligated to follow the panel's recommendation though it usually does. Earlier this year MedImmune won the FDA's OK to market a new version of Flumist, which was first approved in 2003, that can be stored in refrigerators instead of freezers. The company said the new formulation should expand the vaccine's use and will be available for the 2007-2008 flu season. Last month, Gaithersburg, Md.-based MedImmune agreed to be bought out by British drug maker AstraZeneca for $15.6 billion. The deal is expected to close in June. Shares of MedImmune Inc. rose 2 cents to close at $57.02 on the Nasdaq Stock Market. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/health/7513407.html	Young boy receives new heart after getting rare implanted pump | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Health Young boy receives new heart after getting rare implanted pump In this April 19, 2007, photo, Adrian Saucedo plays with a toy in his bed at Arkansas Children's Hospital in Little Rock, Ark. Story Published: May 15, 2007 at 9:16 AM PDT Story Updated: May 15, 2007 at 9:16 AM PDT LITTLE ROCK (AP) - An 8-year-old boy from Mexico received a new heart Monday to replace his diseased one, after spending weeks in a Texas intensive care unit and getting a rare implanted heart pump in Arkansas. Adrian Saucedo went into surgery just after 3 a.m. for a procedure that lasted about seven hours, said Dr. Elizabeth Frazier, head of the cardiac transplantation program at Arkansas Children's Hospital. His new heart, flown into Little Rock by an accompanying physician, began beating after warming inside the boy's chest, requiring no electrical shock to come back to life, Frazier said. "It's always a miracle," Frazier told reporters at a news conference Monday afternoon. "Every time it happens, it's a miracle." Frazier said Adrian would remain on a ventilator for about a day, then would have the tube removed from his throat so he could speak. Within four to five days, the doctor said Adrian would be up and moving around, a vast improvement for a boy who only weeks earlier needed an experimental heart pump implanted in his chest for him to continue living. Adrian lives with his mother and father in Piedras Negras, Mexico, just across the border from Eagle Pass, Texas. He spent more than 60 days at Methodist Children's Hospital of South Texas, after doctors determined he suffered from cardiomyopathy - a condition caused in his case by a viral infection eating away at his heart tissue. While several hospitals rejected him as a transplant patient, residents of San Antonio, Texas, raised half a million dollars for the boy's treatment. Arkansas Children's Hospital in Little Rock admitted Adrian on April 19. But within days of his arrival, Adrian's condition worsened. Doctors implanted a Berlin heart, the only blood pump available for children at risk of heart failure - a rarity as the U.S. Food and Drug Administration only allows it in the most extreme circumstances. Frazier said the hospital received word Sunday a heart matching Adrian's blood type and weight was available. Frazier said privacy rules prohibited her from saying where the heart came from. However, she said Dr. Robert D.B. "Jake" Jaquiss, the hospital's chief of pediatric cardiothoracic surgery, flew on a jet to retrieve the heart and bring it back to Little Rock. The boy went into surgery with Dr. Michiaki Imamura and the hospital's heart team, even before the jet carrying the heart landed, she said. "Fortunately, the donor heart in this situation promptly started once it warmed up," Frazier said. "It seems to be functioning well within the parameters we look at, but the first 24 to 48 hours is critical. Once things stabilize and his medications are stabilized, then we would hope that he would make progress as far as getting off of the breathing machine." Currently, the boy and his family are in the United States on a humanitarian visa, and they plan to return home. Frazier said doctors at the hospital spoke with Mexican physicians about the care Adrian would need. While Adrian's hospital care likely will exceed the half a million dollars raised for him, Frazier said the hospital would handle the rest of the finances without offering specifics. An official from Little Rock's Mexican consulate also attended the news conference. Frazier said Adrian's chances at a full recovery were good - 75 percent of all children who have heart transplants survive with chances even better for those who suffer the disease Adrian had. But the boy could face infection from the operation or kidney damage from being on the bypass machine. "We're not out of the woods 'til we're out of the woods," Frazier said. "There's always that question in that once you transport a heart is it going to restart and how good is it going to feel about it. We've passed that hurdle." Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/health/7513407.html	Young boy receives new heart after getting rare implanted pump | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Health Young boy receives new heart after getting rare implanted pump In this April 19, 2007, photo, Adrian Saucedo plays with a toy in his bed at Arkansas Children's Hospital in Little Rock, Ark. Story Published: May 15, 2007 at 9:16 AM PDT Story Updated: May 15, 2007 at 9:16 AM PDT LITTLE ROCK (AP) - An 8-year-old boy from Mexico received a new heart Monday to replace his diseased one, after spending weeks in a Texas intensive care unit and getting a rare implanted heart pump in Arkansas. Adrian Saucedo went into surgery just after 3 a.m. for a procedure that lasted about seven hours, said Dr. Elizabeth Frazier, head of the cardiac transplantation program at Arkansas Children's Hospital. His new heart, flown into Little Rock by an accompanying physician, began beating after warming inside the boy's chest, requiring no electrical shock to come back to life, Frazier said. "It's always a miracle," Frazier told reporters at a news conference Monday afternoon. "Every time it happens, it's a miracle." Frazier said Adrian would remain on a ventilator for about a day, then would have the tube removed from his throat so he could speak. Within four to five days, the doctor said Adrian would be up and moving around, a vast improvement for a boy who only weeks earlier needed an experimental heart pump implanted in his chest for him to continue living. Adrian lives with his mother and father in Piedras Negras, Mexico, just across the border from Eagle Pass, Texas. He spent more than 60 days at Methodist Children's Hospital of South Texas, after doctors determined he suffered from cardiomyopathy - a condition caused in his case by a viral infection eating away at his heart tissue. While several hospitals rejected him as a transplant patient, residents of San Antonio, Texas, raised half a million dollars for the boy's treatment. Arkansas Children's Hospital in Little Rock admitted Adrian on April 19. But within days of his arrival, Adrian's condition worsened. Doctors implanted a Berlin heart, the only blood pump available for children at risk of heart failure - a rarity as the U.S. Food and Drug Administration only allows it in the most extreme circumstances. Frazier said the hospital received word Sunday a heart matching Adrian's blood type and weight was available. Frazier said privacy rules prohibited her from saying where the heart came from. However, she said Dr. Robert D.B. "Jake" Jaquiss, the hospital's chief of pediatric cardiothoracic surgery, flew on a jet to retrieve the heart and bring it back to Little Rock. The boy went into surgery with Dr. Michiaki Imamura and the hospital's heart team, even before the jet carrying the heart landed, she said. "Fortunately, the donor heart in this situation promptly started once it warmed up," Frazier said. "It seems to be functioning well within the parameters we look at, but the first 24 to 48 hours is critical. Once things stabilize and his medications are stabilized, then we would hope that he would make progress as far as getting off of the breathing machine." Currently, the boy and his family are in the United States on a humanitarian visa, and they plan to return home. Frazier said doctors at the hospital spoke with Mexican physicians about the care Adrian would need. While Adrian's hospital care likely will exceed the half a million dollars raised for him, Frazier said the hospital would handle the rest of the finances without offering specifics. An official from Little Rock's Mexican consulate also attended the news conference. Frazier said Adrian's chances at a full recovery were good - 75 percent of all children who have heart transplants survive with chances even better for those who suffer the disease Adrian had. But the boy could face infection from the operation or kidney damage from being on the bypass machine. "We're not out of the woods 'til we're out of the woods," Frazier said. "There's always that question in that once you transport a heart is it going to restart and how good is it going to feel about it. We've passed that hurdle." Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/health/7513527.html	Professors say new protein can stop spread of certain cancers | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Health Professors say new protein can stop spread of certain cancers University of Oklahoma professors Tom Pento, right foreground, and Roger Harrison are photographed in a lab at Sarkeys Energy Center in Norman, Okla. Story Published: May 15, 2007 at 9:22 AM PDT Story Updated: May 15, 2007 at 9:22 AM PDT NORMAN, Okla. (AP) - Two professors at the University of Oklahoma say they've developed a protein that can stop the spread of certain cancer cells without damaging normal cells. Thomas Pento and Roger Harrison helped develop a fusion protein that keeps some types of cancer cells from ingesting a vital protein called methionine. The fusion protein doesn't affect normal cells because, unlike cancer cells, they can be healthy without that protein. Chemotherapy and radiation therapies kill normal cells along with cancer cells, which often cause sickness and hair loss. "Roger has created a mechanism that delivers these compounds specifically to the surface of cancer cells so normal cells won't be affected but only the cancer cells will be damaged," Pento said. "So you can see it would cause a lot less toxicity and it should really be a lot more effective." Pento is a Noble Foundation presidential professor of pharmacy at the OU Health Sciences Center; Harrison is an associate professor of chemical, biological and materials engineering on the Norman campus. They worked with other OU scientists, including Xiao-Ping Zang, Naveen Palwai, Megan Lerner and Dan Brackett, research director at the Health Sciences Center's surgery department. Pento said the research started with breast cancer and expanded to include other types of solid tumors. They found the fusion protein to be just as helpful in fighting lung, prostate and pancreatic cancers. "It could be applicable to many types of cancer," Pento said, "but we've found that it's effective for those four types of cancer for sure." Despite successful testing to this point, Harrison said the fusion protein will need another round of animal tests before moving on to years of human clinical testing. Three phases of clinical tests could take two years each. "So it could be in the order of 10 years," he said. "It sounds so far away, but realistically, given the FDA and all the phases of testing, it could be done rapidly." The two professors have applied for patents on their technology and plan to conduct animal testing themselves before launching their own company or licensing with a large pharmaceutical company to do it. "If you don't patent it and get that protection, then no pharmaceutical company is going to spend the half to three-quarter billion dollars that it takes to do the clinical testing and to get this drug on the market," Pento said. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/health/7513527.html	Professors say new protein can stop spread of certain cancers | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Health Professors say new protein can stop spread of certain cancers University of Oklahoma professors Tom Pento, right foreground, and Roger Harrison are photographed in a lab at Sarkeys Energy Center in Norman, Okla. Story Published: May 15, 2007 at 9:22 AM PDT Story Updated: May 15, 2007 at 9:22 AM PDT NORMAN, Okla. (AP) - Two professors at the University of Oklahoma say they've developed a protein that can stop the spread of certain cancer cells without damaging normal cells. Thomas Pento and Roger Harrison helped develop a fusion protein that keeps some types of cancer cells from ingesting a vital protein called methionine. The fusion protein doesn't affect normal cells because, unlike cancer cells, they can be healthy without that protein. Chemotherapy and radiation therapies kill normal cells along with cancer cells, which often cause sickness and hair loss. "Roger has created a mechanism that delivers these compounds specifically to the surface of cancer cells so normal cells won't be affected but only the cancer cells will be damaged," Pento said. "So you can see it would cause a lot less toxicity and it should really be a lot more effective." Pento is a Noble Foundation presidential professor of pharmacy at the OU Health Sciences Center; Harrison is an associate professor of chemical, biological and materials engineering on the Norman campus. They worked with other OU scientists, including Xiao-Ping Zang, Naveen Palwai, Megan Lerner and Dan Brackett, research director at the Health Sciences Center's surgery department. Pento said the research started with breast cancer and expanded to include other types of solid tumors. They found the fusion protein to be just as helpful in fighting lung, prostate and pancreatic cancers. "It could be applicable to many types of cancer," Pento said, "but we've found that it's effective for those four types of cancer for sure." Despite successful testing to this point, Harrison said the fusion protein will need another round of animal tests before moving on to years of human clinical testing. Three phases of clinical tests could take two years each. "So it could be in the order of 10 years," he said. "It sounds so far away, but realistically, given the FDA and all the phases of testing, it could be done rapidly." The two professors have applied for patents on their technology and plan to conduct animal testing themselves before launching their own company or licensing with a large pharmaceutical company to do it. "If you don't patent it and get that protection, then no pharmaceutical company is going to spend the half to three-quarter billion dollars that it takes to do the clinical testing and to get this drug on the market," Pento said. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/health/7464652.html	Lose the ads, not the weight, says doctors' group | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Health Lose the ads, not the weight, says doctors' group Story Published: May 11, 2007 at 11:58 AM PDT Story Updated: May 11, 2007 at 11:58 AM PDT WASHINGTON (AP) - An ad campaign that suggested milk can help people lose weight is ending, the Federal Trade Commission told a doctors' group that had complained. The Physicians Committee for Responsible Medicine contended the weight loss claims were false and misleading. The group, in a 2005 petition, asked the commission to order a halt to the dairy advertisements. The agency did not take that step, but said in a letter to the committee that the groups behind the ads planned to end them. "It is obvious that the industry did not have a leg to stand on," Neal Barnard, president of the Washington-based doctors committee, said Thursday. His group advocates a vegan diet, which typically includes no animal products. The two marketing campaigns at issue involve the "Milk your diet. Lose Weight!" ads on television, Internet and in magazines, and the "3-A-Day. Burn More Fat, Lose Weight" ads, which are now mostly Web-based. The FTC, in a letter May 3 to the committee, said the agency met with Agriculture Department officials and representatives for the two campaigns, which decided "to discontinue all advertising and other marketing activities involving weight loss claims until further research provides stronger, more conclusive evidence." Susan Ruland, a spokeswoman for the "Milk your Diet" campaign, said there was nothing misleading about the ads. "We absolutely stand behind our weight loss campaign and the science supporting our messages," said Ruland, who represents the National Fluid Milk Processor Promotion Board. "There's a strong body of scientific evidence that demonstrates a connection between dairy and weight loss." Still, she said, the board plans to phase out the milk ads and focus the campaign instead on how dairy can help promote a healthy diet. The National Dairy Promotion and Research Board said it has already changed its "3-A-Day" campaign. The Agriculture Department, which has oversight of the two boards, had approved the ads. A spokesman said the agency supports the decision to pull back from the campaigns. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/health/7464652.html	Lose the ads, not the weight, says doctors' group | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Health Lose the ads, not the weight, says doctors' group Story Published: May 11, 2007 at 11:58 AM PDT Story Updated: May 11, 2007 at 11:58 AM PDT WASHINGTON (AP) - An ad campaign that suggested milk can help people lose weight is ending, the Federal Trade Commission told a doctors' group that had complained. The Physicians Committee for Responsible Medicine contended the weight loss claims were false and misleading. The group, in a 2005 petition, asked the commission to order a halt to the dairy advertisements. The agency did not take that step, but said in a letter to the committee that the groups behind the ads planned to end them. "It is obvious that the industry did not have a leg to stand on," Neal Barnard, president of the Washington-based doctors committee, said Thursday. His group advocates a vegan diet, which typically includes no animal products. The two marketing campaigns at issue involve the "Milk your diet. Lose Weight!" ads on television, Internet and in magazines, and the "3-A-Day. Burn More Fat, Lose Weight" ads, which are now mostly Web-based. The FTC, in a letter May 3 to the committee, said the agency met with Agriculture Department officials and representatives for the two campaigns, which decided "to discontinue all advertising and other marketing activities involving weight loss claims until further research provides stronger, more conclusive evidence." Susan Ruland, a spokeswoman for the "Milk your Diet" campaign, said there was nothing misleading about the ads. "We absolutely stand behind our weight loss campaign and the science supporting our messages," said Ruland, who represents the National Fluid Milk Processor Promotion Board. "There's a strong body of scientific evidence that demonstrates a connection between dairy and weight loss." Still, she said, the board plans to phase out the milk ads and focus the campaign instead on how dairy can help promote a healthy diet. The National Dairy Promotion and Research Board said it has already changed its "3-A-Day" campaign. The Agriculture Department, which has oversight of the two boards, had approved the ads. A spokesman said the agency supports the decision to pull back from the campaigns. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/health/7473132.html	Wis. calf born with two noses | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Health Wis. calf born with two noses Story Published: May 11, 2007 at 9:01 PM PDT Story Updated: May 12, 2007 at 5:02 PM PDT MERRILL, Wis. (AP) - Mark Krombholz had to look twice at his new calf, Lucy - one time for each nose. ''I didn't notice anything too different about her until I got her in the barn,'' Krombholz said, ''and all of a sudden I went to feed her a bottle of milk, and I thought maybe she'd been kicked in the nose and there were two noses there.'' The second, smaller nose sits on top of the first. ''It's a functioning nose because the middle of her second nose, the flap would go in and out when she drank out of the bottle like that,'' Krombholz said. ''It was kind of funny.'' Breeder Scott Grund said Lucy's noses seem to be working fine. ''It looked like she was comfortable laying there in her bedding and breathing and spunky just like you want to see,'' Grund said. ''It's just that she's got two noses.'' That kind of rare deformity is usually not the result of genetics, he said. But breeders do track such mutations. ''We'll fill out a form, send that on to the company in Shawano and they will keep record of it,'' Grund said. ''If by chance this would occur more than a few times, they would start looking at maybe the sire that we're using.'' Krombholz said Lucy, who was born May 4, will be a pet and bred if she's able. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/health/7473132.html	Wis. calf born with two noses | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Health Wis. calf born with two noses Story Published: May 11, 2007 at 9:01 PM PDT Story Updated: May 12, 2007 at 5:02 PM PDT MERRILL, Wis. (AP) - Mark Krombholz had to look twice at his new calf, Lucy - one time for each nose. ''I didn't notice anything too different about her until I got her in the barn,'' Krombholz said, ''and all of a sudden I went to feed her a bottle of milk, and I thought maybe she'd been kicked in the nose and there were two noses there.'' The second, smaller nose sits on top of the first. ''It's a functioning nose because the middle of her second nose, the flap would go in and out when she drank out of the bottle like that,'' Krombholz said. ''It was kind of funny.'' Breeder Scott Grund said Lucy's noses seem to be working fine. ''It looked like she was comfortable laying there in her bedding and breathing and spunky just like you want to see,'' Grund said. ''It's just that she's got two noses.'' That kind of rare deformity is usually not the result of genetics, he said. But breeders do track such mutations. ''We'll fill out a form, send that on to the company in Shawano and they will keep record of it,'' Grund said. ''If by chance this would occur more than a few times, they would start looking at maybe the sire that we're using.'' Krombholz said Lucy, who was born May 4, will be a pet and bred if she's able. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/health/7464627.html	Merck vaccine production problem means extra shot for kids | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Health Merck vaccine production problem means extra shot for kids Story Published: May 11, 2007 at 11:56 AM PDT Story Updated: May 11, 2007 at 11:56 AM PDT TRENTON, N.J. (AP) - Young children needing immunization against chickenpox and three other diseases likely will have to get an extra shot, due to manufacturing problems that have halted production of a four-disease combo vaccine made by Merck & Co. Merck said Thursday that its ProQuad vaccine, which protects against measles, mumps and rubella as well as chickenpox, won't be available from about July until at least year's end. "It's too early to say at this point whether new (ProQuad) supplies will be available in 2008," said Mary Elizabeth Blake, spokeswoman for Merck's vaccines division. However, the drugmaker expects to have plenty of two separate vaccines that cover the same diseases: Varivax, for chickenpox, and M-M-R II, for measles, mumps and rubella. The federal government recommends children get each of those shots twice, once at age 12 months to 15 months and again between ages four and six years old, or - when available - they can receive the ProQuad vaccine twice. Last year, the government recommended the second chickenpox shot because of outbreaks among schoolchildren, apparently due to waning potency of the vaccine. Whitehouse Station, N.J.-based Merck is the only U.S. source for vaccines against the varicella zoster virus, which causes chickenpox in children and shingles in adults. Blake said Merck decided to shift available supply of the key vaccine ingredient against chickenpox - live but weakened varicella virus - from ProQuad to Varivax and its shingles vaccine, Zostavax. The drugmaker recently informed the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention of its decision. "It makes sense to cut back on ProQuad first" because that requires more virus, said Dr. Lance Rodewald, director of the CDC's immunization services division. He said the agency had been assured there would be an adequate supply of both Varivax, with an expected demand of more than 8 million doses, and Merck's Zostavax vaccine against shingles. Zostavax was just approved last May and is recommended for all adults aged 60 and older. Shingles, also called herpes zoster, is a painful skin rash that strikes roughly one in four adults who previously had chickenpox. The government does not have a firm projection of demand for Zostavax, Rodewald said. According to the CDC, Merck charges private doctors about $45 for M-M-R II and $75 for Varivax, slightly less than the $125 price for ProQuad. All or most of the cost of getting the shots is generally covered by private insurance and the federal Vaccines for Children program for the poor. In trading on the New York Stock Exchange, Merck shares fell 97 cents to $51.08, near their 52-week high of $52.63. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/health/7464627.html	Merck vaccine production problem means extra shot for kids | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Health Merck vaccine production problem means extra shot for kids Story Published: May 11, 2007 at 11:56 AM PDT Story Updated: May 11, 2007 at 11:56 AM PDT TRENTON, N.J. (AP) - Young children needing immunization against chickenpox and three other diseases likely will have to get an extra shot, due to manufacturing problems that have halted production of a four-disease combo vaccine made by Merck & Co. Merck said Thursday that its ProQuad vaccine, which protects against measles, mumps and rubella as well as chickenpox, won't be available from about July until at least year's end. "It's too early to say at this point whether new (ProQuad) supplies will be available in 2008," said Mary Elizabeth Blake, spokeswoman for Merck's vaccines division. However, the drugmaker expects to have plenty of two separate vaccines that cover the same diseases: Varivax, for chickenpox, and M-M-R II, for measles, mumps and rubella. The federal government recommends children get each of those shots twice, once at age 12 months to 15 months and again between ages four and six years old, or - when available - they can receive the ProQuad vaccine twice. Last year, the government recommended the second chickenpox shot because of outbreaks among schoolchildren, apparently due to waning potency of the vaccine. Whitehouse Station, N.J.-based Merck is the only U.S. source for vaccines against the varicella zoster virus, which causes chickenpox in children and shingles in adults. Blake said Merck decided to shift available supply of the key vaccine ingredient against chickenpox - live but weakened varicella virus - from ProQuad to Varivax and its shingles vaccine, Zostavax. The drugmaker recently informed the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention of its decision. "It makes sense to cut back on ProQuad first" because that requires more virus, said Dr. Lance Rodewald, director of the CDC's immunization services division. He said the agency had been assured there would be an adequate supply of both Varivax, with an expected demand of more than 8 million doses, and Merck's Zostavax vaccine against shingles. Zostavax was just approved last May and is recommended for all adults aged 60 and older. Shingles, also called herpes zoster, is a painful skin rash that strikes roughly one in four adults who previously had chickenpox. The government does not have a firm projection of demand for Zostavax, Rodewald said. According to the CDC, Merck charges private doctors about $45 for M-M-R II and $75 for Varivax, slightly less than the $125 price for ProQuad. All or most of the cost of getting the shots is generally covered by private insurance and the federal Vaccines for Children program for the poor. In trading on the New York Stock Exchange, Merck shares fell 97 cents to $51.08, near their 52-week high of $52.63. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/health/7477752.html	Thin people may be fat inside | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Health Thin people may be fat inside This undated MRI scan image released by Imperial College, London, provides a detailed look at where fat is stored internally in the human body. Internal fat is shown as yellow, external fat is green and muscles are red. Story Published: May 12, 2007 at 12:43 PM PDT Story Updated: May 12, 2007 at 12:43 PM PDT LONDON (AP) - If it really is what's on the inside that counts, then a lot of thin people might be in trouble. Some doctors now think that the internal fat surrounding vital organs like the heart, liver or pancreas - invisible to the naked eye - could be as dangerous as the more obvious external fat that bulges underneath the skin. ''Being thin doesn't automatically mean you're not fat,'' said Dr. Jimmy Bell, a professor of molecular imaging at Imperial College, London. Since 1994, Bell and his team have scanned nearly 800 people with MRI machines to create ''fat maps'' showing where people store fat. According to the data, people who maintain their weight through diet rather than exercise are likely to have major deposits of internal fat, even if they are otherwise slim. ''The whole concept of being fat needs to be redefined,'' said Bell, whose research is funded by Britain's Medical Research Council. Without a clear warning signal - like a rounder middle - doctors worry that thin people may be lulled into falsely assuming that because they're not overweight, they're healthy. ''Just because someone is lean doesn't make them immune to diabetes or other risk factors for heart disease,'' said Dr. Louis Teichholz, chief of cardiology at Hackensack Hospital in New Jersey, who was not involved in Bell's research. Even people with normal Body Mass Index scores - a standard obesity measure that divides your weight by the square of your height - can have surprising levels of fat deposits inside. Of the women scanned by Bell and his colleagues, as many as 45 percent of those with normal BMI scores (20 to 25) actually had excessive levels of internal fat. Among men, the percentage was nearly 60 percent. Relating the news to what Bell calls ''TOFIs'' - people who are ''thin outside, fat inside'' - is rarely uneventful. ''The thinner people are, the bigger the surprise,'' he said, adding the researchers even found TOFIs among people who are professional models. According to Bell, people who are fat on the inside are essentially on the threshold of being obese. They eat too many fatty, sugary foods - and exercise too little to work it off _ but they are not eating enough to actually be fat. Scientists believe we naturally accumulate fat around the belly first, but at some point, the body may start storing it elsewhere. Still, most experts believe that being of normal weight is an indicator of good health, and that BMI is a reliable measurement. ''BMI won't give you the exact indication of where fat is, but it's a useful clinical tool,'' said Dr. Toni Steer, a nutritionist at Britain's Medical Research Council. Doctors are unsure about the exact dangers of internal fat, but some suspect it contributes to the risk of heart disease and diabetes. They theorize that internal fat disrupts the body's communication systems. The fat enveloping internal organs might be sending the body mistaken chemical signals to store fat inside organs like the liver or pancreas. This could ultimately lead to insulin resistance, type 2 diabetes, or heart disease. Experts have long known that fat, active people can be healthier than their skinny, inactive counterparts. ''Normal-weight persons who are sedentary and unfit are at much higher risk for mortality than obese persons who are active and fit,'' said Dr. Steven Blair, an obesity expert at the University of South Carolina. For example, despite their ripples of fat, super-sized Sumo wrestlers probably have a better metabolic profile than some of their slim, sedentary spectators, Bell said. That's because the wrestlers' fat is primarily stored under the skin, not streaking throughout their vital organs and muscles. The good news is that internal fat can be easily burned off through exercise or even by improving your diet. ''Even if you don't see it on your bathroom scale, caloric restriction and physical exercise have an aggressive effect on visceral fat,'' said Dr. Bob Ross, an obesity expert at Queen's University in Canada. Because many factors contribute to heart disease, Teichholz says it's difficult to determine the precise danger of internal fat - though it certainly doesn't help. ''Obesity is a risk factor, but it's lower down on the totem pole of risk factors,'' he said, explaining that whether or not people smoke, their family histories and blood pressure and cholesterol rates are more important determinants than both external and internal fat. When it comes to being fit, experts say there is no short-cut. ''If you just want to look thin, then maybe dieting is enough,'' Bell said. ''But if you want to actually be healthy, then exercise has to be an important component of your lifestyle.'' Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/health/7477752.html	Thin people may be fat inside | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Health Thin people may be fat inside This undated MRI scan image released by Imperial College, London, provides a detailed look at where fat is stored internally in the human body. Internal fat is shown as yellow, external fat is green and muscles are red. Story Published: May 12, 2007 at 12:43 PM PDT Story Updated: May 12, 2007 at 12:43 PM PDT LONDON (AP) - If it really is what's on the inside that counts, then a lot of thin people might be in trouble. Some doctors now think that the internal fat surrounding vital organs like the heart, liver or pancreas - invisible to the naked eye - could be as dangerous as the more obvious external fat that bulges underneath the skin. ''Being thin doesn't automatically mean you're not fat,'' said Dr. Jimmy Bell, a professor of molecular imaging at Imperial College, London. Since 1994, Bell and his team have scanned nearly 800 people with MRI machines to create ''fat maps'' showing where people store fat. According to the data, people who maintain their weight through diet rather than exercise are likely to have major deposits of internal fat, even if they are otherwise slim. ''The whole concept of being fat needs to be redefined,'' said Bell, whose research is funded by Britain's Medical Research Council. Without a clear warning signal - like a rounder middle - doctors worry that thin people may be lulled into falsely assuming that because they're not overweight, they're healthy. ''Just because someone is lean doesn't make them immune to diabetes or other risk factors for heart disease,'' said Dr. Louis Teichholz, chief of cardiology at Hackensack Hospital in New Jersey, who was not involved in Bell's research. Even people with normal Body Mass Index scores - a standard obesity measure that divides your weight by the square of your height - can have surprising levels of fat deposits inside. Of the women scanned by Bell and his colleagues, as many as 45 percent of those with normal BMI scores (20 to 25) actually had excessive levels of internal fat. Among men, the percentage was nearly 60 percent. Relating the news to what Bell calls ''TOFIs'' - people who are ''thin outside, fat inside'' - is rarely uneventful. ''The thinner people are, the bigger the surprise,'' he said, adding the researchers even found TOFIs among people who are professional models. According to Bell, people who are fat on the inside are essentially on the threshold of being obese. They eat too many fatty, sugary foods - and exercise too little to work it off _ but they are not eating enough to actually be fat. Scientists believe we naturally accumulate fat around the belly first, but at some point, the body may start storing it elsewhere. Still, most experts believe that being of normal weight is an indicator of good health, and that BMI is a reliable measurement. ''BMI won't give you the exact indication of where fat is, but it's a useful clinical tool,'' said Dr. Toni Steer, a nutritionist at Britain's Medical Research Council. Doctors are unsure about the exact dangers of internal fat, but some suspect it contributes to the risk of heart disease and diabetes. They theorize that internal fat disrupts the body's communication systems. The fat enveloping internal organs might be sending the body mistaken chemical signals to store fat inside organs like the liver or pancreas. This could ultimately lead to insulin resistance, type 2 diabetes, or heart disease. Experts have long known that fat, active people can be healthier than their skinny, inactive counterparts. ''Normal-weight persons who are sedentary and unfit are at much higher risk for mortality than obese persons who are active and fit,'' said Dr. Steven Blair, an obesity expert at the University of South Carolina. For example, despite their ripples of fat, super-sized Sumo wrestlers probably have a better metabolic profile than some of their slim, sedentary spectators, Bell said. That's because the wrestlers' fat is primarily stored under the skin, not streaking throughout their vital organs and muscles. The good news is that internal fat can be easily burned off through exercise or even by improving your diet. ''Even if you don't see it on your bathroom scale, caloric restriction and physical exercise have an aggressive effect on visceral fat,'' said Dr. Bob Ross, an obesity expert at Queen's University in Canada. Because many factors contribute to heart disease, Teichholz says it's difficult to determine the precise danger of internal fat - though it certainly doesn't help. ''Obesity is a risk factor, but it's lower down on the totem pole of risk factors,'' he said, explaining that whether or not people smoke, their family histories and blood pressure and cholesterol rates are more important determinants than both external and internal fat. When it comes to being fit, experts say there is no short-cut. ''If you just want to look thin, then maybe dieting is enough,'' Bell said. ''But if you want to actually be healthy, then exercise has to be an important component of your lifestyle.'' Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/health	KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Health Professors say new protein can stop spread of certain cancers Two professors at the University of Oklahoma say they've developed a protein that can stop the spread of certain cancer cells without damaging normal cells. FDA: FluMist effective for kids under 5 The vaccine, Flumist, was once thought to be a possible blockbuster drug, but has had modest sales because approved use is limited to healthy people between the age of 5 and 49 years old. Young boy receives new heart after getting rare implanted pump An 8-year-old boy from Mexico received a new heart Monday to replace his diseased one, after spending weeks in a Texas intensive care unit and getting a rare implanted heart pump in Arkansas. Doctors increasingly trying to diagnose mental disorders in babies Blood pressure rising around the globe, not just in Western world Plan would mandate HIV tests for pregnant women and newborns in N.J. Thin people may be fat inside Wis. calf born with two noses Lose the ads, not the weight, says doctors' group Merck vaccine production problem means extra shot for kids Purdue Pharma executives plead guilty to misleading public about OxyContin addiction FDA approves patch to treat early Parkinson's symptoms Study links lung scarring disease to post-Sept. 11 WTC work Dentists say children's dental health has not improved Farmed fish fed contaminated material linked to pet food recall VA urged to improve testing, compensation for veterans with stress disorder Clinton Foundation deal to lower cost of AIDS drugs Drug maker to pay $19.5 million over OxyContin promotion Millions of dollars intended for poor probably stayed with insurers, investigators say Study suggests coping strategies for childhood immunizations Report: Chinese factory made chemical in tainted medicine linked to Panama deaths Cancer survivor, 75, skis to North Pole FDA seeks antidepressant suicide warning Bush extolls benefits of exercise, then hops on bike 20 Million chickens held because of feed Brazil to bypass patent on U.S. AIDS drug Researchers announce possible new treatment for autism Will face masks help during a super-flu? Scientists say don't count on it Researchers examine bio-magnetic Sensors Celebrities boost lemon detox fad, but it may not be good for your health Canada confirms new mad cow case Study: Hormones may ward off dementia Studies hint at unexpected heart rhythm problem with bone-building drugs Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/health	KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Health Professors say new protein can stop spread of certain cancers Two professors at the University of Oklahoma say they've developed a protein that can stop the spread of certain cancer cells without damaging normal cells. FDA: FluMist effective for kids under 5 The vaccine, Flumist, was once thought to be a possible blockbuster drug, but has had modest sales because approved use is limited to healthy people between the age of 5 and 49 years old. Young boy receives new heart after getting rare implanted pump An 8-year-old boy from Mexico received a new heart Monday to replace his diseased one, after spending weeks in a Texas intensive care unit and getting a rare implanted heart pump in Arkansas. Doctors increasingly trying to diagnose mental disorders in babies Blood pressure rising around the globe, not just in Western world Plan would mandate HIV tests for pregnant women and newborns in N.J. Thin people may be fat inside Wis. calf born with two noses Lose the ads, not the weight, says doctors' group Merck vaccine production problem means extra shot for kids Purdue Pharma executives plead guilty to misleading public about OxyContin addiction FDA approves patch to treat early Parkinson's symptoms Study links lung scarring disease to post-Sept. 11 WTC work Dentists say children's dental health has not improved Farmed fish fed contaminated material linked to pet food recall VA urged to improve testing, compensation for veterans with stress disorder Clinton Foundation deal to lower cost of AIDS drugs Drug maker to pay $19.5 million over OxyContin promotion Millions of dollars intended for poor probably stayed with insurers, investigators say Study suggests coping strategies for childhood immunizations Report: Chinese factory made chemical in tainted medicine linked to Panama deaths Cancer survivor, 75, skis to North Pole FDA seeks antidepressant suicide warning Bush extolls benefits of exercise, then hops on bike 20 Million chickens held because of feed Brazil to bypass patent on U.S. AIDS drug Researchers announce possible new treatment for autism Will face masks help during a super-flu? Scientists say don't count on it Researchers examine bio-magnetic Sensors Celebrities boost lemon detox fad, but it may not be good for your health Canada confirms new mad cow case Study: Hormones may ward off dementia Studies hint at unexpected heart rhythm problem with bone-building drugs Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/health/7500022.html	Doctors increasingly trying to diagnose mental disorders in babies | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Health Doctors increasingly trying to diagnose mental disorders in babies Story Published: May 14, 2007 at 1:50 PM PDT Story Updated: May 14, 2007 at 1:50 PM PDT CHICAGO (AP) - Within days of their birth, healthy babies will look you in the eye. By 4 months, they will delight in others. And by 9 months, they will exchange smiles. Jacob Day did none of those things. "We used to say it was like it burned his eyes to look at you," said his mother, Tamie Day of Antelope, Calif. "It was like a physically painful thing for him. It wasn't just that he wasn't looking at us; he was purposefully looking away." Day, who has a psychology degree, suspected her son might have autism. She enrolled him in a study, published in April, that found that babies like Jacob are indeed at high risk for autism if they do not respond to their names by 12 months of age. At 18 months, he was formally diagnosed with autism, about a year earlier than usual. Before he turned 2, Jacob began daily intensive behavior treatment designed to help him lead a more normal life. He is part of a growing field in psychiatry called infant mental health. Doctors and scientists are increasingly looking for early signs in babies of autism, attention deficit disorder and other mental problems that just a generation ago, scarcely anyone thought could appear in children so young. Some scientists even believe that intensive treatment in some susceptible babies can actually prevent autism, attention deficit disorder and other problems. An influential Institute of Medicine report in 2000 helped energize this idea. The report emphasized the plasticity of babies' brains. It also explained how interacting with babies can change their brain wiring. "We used to say `nature versus nurture,' but now people really think it's 'nature through nurture,"' said the University of Chicago's Dr. Lawrence Gray. Tamie Day noticed the first ominous clue the night she and her husband, Chris, brought Jacob home after his birth. "We walked in the door and he wouldn't stop looking at our ceiling fan," she said. "The next day, that's all he would look at." Babies typically begin making eye contact soon after birth, and "understand at a basic, perhaps hardwired level, that eyes are special - they look more at eyes than at other parts of the face," said Sally Ozonoff, an autism specialist at the University of California at Davis' MIND Institute. When his mother expressed her autism concerns at Jacob's 6-month checkup, the doctor said "we were being a little overzealous," Day said. Still, there was no pointing, no clapping, no shared smiles, and when Jacob would laugh, it seemed like his own private joke. So his parents sought out UC-Davis specialists, who gave them the heartbreaking diagnosis. Jacob, now 3, has made meaningful progress thanks to treatment, his mother said, including a breakthrough moment at age 2. It still makes her cry to recall it. She was giving Jacob a bath, playing the "itsy bitsy spider" finger game, when he looked up and really gazed into her eyes. "He was smiling up at me and I realized that was the first time he had done that," she said. "He has gorgeous blue eyes, and I was like, `My God, your eyes are so beautiful."' Interest in infant mental health has been boosted by awareness of the prevalence of attention deficit disorders and autism, which government officials said in February affects 1 in 150 U.S. children and may be more common than previously thought. In April, researchers from the federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the Interdisciplinary Council on Developmental and Learning Disorders presented a report emphasizing earlier diagnosis and treatment. The report said that about 17 percent of U.S. children have a developmental disability such as autism, mental retardation and attention deficit-hyperactivity disorder, but that fewer than half are diagnosed before starting school. The authors say warning signs include failure to: -focus on sights and sounds by 2 months. -initiate joyful behavior with parents by 4 months. -exchange smiles and sounds with parents by 8 to 9 months. -take a parent's hand to find a toy and point to objects by 12 to 16 months. Last year, the American Academy of Pediatrics recommended that pediatricians routinely evaluate children for developmental problems such as autism starting in infancy, and begin testing at age 9 months. "Waiting until a young child misses a major milestone such as walking or talking may result in late rather than early recognition ... depriving the child and family of the benefits of early identification and intervention," the academy said. Some critics worry that the trend will trigger needless diagnoses in children with normal variations in behavior. Dr. Michael Fitzpatrick, a London physician, said that while early recognition and treatment of true disorders are important, "the extension of these categories to include 20 to 30 percent of all children reflects a social trend of pathologizing and medicalizing children's lives, which seems to reflect difficulties of parents and teachers in dealing with familiar problems of childhood development." Dr. Stanley Greenspan, a psychiatry professor at George Washington University who co-authored the CDC-Interdisciplinary group report, said the idea is not to slap a label on babies and give them medication. Greenspan said the goal is to raise awareness about early warning signs and to encourage treatment to increase the chances that children can develop normally. Research on identifying early clues and testing treatments is booming. For example: -Dr. Fred Volkmar at Yale University is studying potential ways to diagnose autism in the first months of life, including whether looking at objects rather than people is a sign. "I think we're on the verge of being able to do a much better job" of diagnosing autism in infancy, Volkmar said. -Researcher Stephen Porges at the University of Illinois at Chicago is starting a five-year study of whether excessive crying past 6 months of age might be an early sign of autism, attention deficit or other behavior problems. -Greenspan is launching a multimillion-dollar study involving parents and babies at risk for autism or attention deficit disorder. One group will receive intensive behavior training, the other will not; both will be compared through age 5. While rigorous scientific evidence is needed to prove that early intervention succeeds, Greenspan said his work with patients has shown promise. Jacob didn't say his first word, "more," until he was in treatment and almost 2 - about a year later than normal. He didn't say "mama" until he was 3. He gets 33 hours of weekly home treatment with trained college students, including six hours most days. The tab is $70,000 yearly, paid for by California, one of the few states that pay, through state and federal funds, for early intensive autism treatment. Jacob's sessions involve lots of repetition, and rewards, including praise and treats, for a job well done. For example, to improve eye contact, teachers bounce him on a favorite giant ball, then stop. If he turns to look at them, he gets praise, maybe a piece of candy, and more bouncing. To teach language, they use activities like swinging that get him excited enough to make sounds, then offer rewards for sounds like vowels or consonants rather than humming. Then they name objects, encourage mimicking, and offer more rewards. Now he knows the alphabet, understands commands like "Bring me the cow and the horse toy," and can say simple sentences like "I want juice," his mother said. "We definitely hope to mainstream him. We hope that he will have a job and have a life where he can take care of himself and be happy," Day said. "Everyone has given us reason to believe that's not an outlandish expectation." Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/health/7500022.html	Doctors increasingly trying to diagnose mental disorders in babies | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Health Doctors increasingly trying to diagnose mental disorders in babies Story Published: May 14, 2007 at 1:50 PM PDT Story Updated: May 14, 2007 at 1:50 PM PDT CHICAGO (AP) - Within days of their birth, healthy babies will look you in the eye. By 4 months, they will delight in others. And by 9 months, they will exchange smiles. Jacob Day did none of those things. "We used to say it was like it burned his eyes to look at you," said his mother, Tamie Day of Antelope, Calif. "It was like a physically painful thing for him. It wasn't just that he wasn't looking at us; he was purposefully looking away." Day, who has a psychology degree, suspected her son might have autism. She enrolled him in a study, published in April, that found that babies like Jacob are indeed at high risk for autism if they do not respond to their names by 12 months of age. At 18 months, he was formally diagnosed with autism, about a year earlier than usual. Before he turned 2, Jacob began daily intensive behavior treatment designed to help him lead a more normal life. He is part of a growing field in psychiatry called infant mental health. Doctors and scientists are increasingly looking for early signs in babies of autism, attention deficit disorder and other mental problems that just a generation ago, scarcely anyone thought could appear in children so young. Some scientists even believe that intensive treatment in some susceptible babies can actually prevent autism, attention deficit disorder and other problems. An influential Institute of Medicine report in 2000 helped energize this idea. The report emphasized the plasticity of babies' brains. It also explained how interacting with babies can change their brain wiring. "We used to say `nature versus nurture,' but now people really think it's 'nature through nurture,"' said the University of Chicago's Dr. Lawrence Gray. Tamie Day noticed the first ominous clue the night she and her husband, Chris, brought Jacob home after his birth. "We walked in the door and he wouldn't stop looking at our ceiling fan," she said. "The next day, that's all he would look at." Babies typically begin making eye contact soon after birth, and "understand at a basic, perhaps hardwired level, that eyes are special - they look more at eyes than at other parts of the face," said Sally Ozonoff, an autism specialist at the University of California at Davis' MIND Institute. When his mother expressed her autism concerns at Jacob's 6-month checkup, the doctor said "we were being a little overzealous," Day said. Still, there was no pointing, no clapping, no shared smiles, and when Jacob would laugh, it seemed like his own private joke. So his parents sought out UC-Davis specialists, who gave them the heartbreaking diagnosis. Jacob, now 3, has made meaningful progress thanks to treatment, his mother said, including a breakthrough moment at age 2. It still makes her cry to recall it. She was giving Jacob a bath, playing the "itsy bitsy spider" finger game, when he looked up and really gazed into her eyes. "He was smiling up at me and I realized that was the first time he had done that," she said. "He has gorgeous blue eyes, and I was like, `My God, your eyes are so beautiful."' Interest in infant mental health has been boosted by awareness of the prevalence of attention deficit disorders and autism, which government officials said in February affects 1 in 150 U.S. children and may be more common than previously thought. In April, researchers from the federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the Interdisciplinary Council on Developmental and Learning Disorders presented a report emphasizing earlier diagnosis and treatment. The report said that about 17 percent of U.S. children have a developmental disability such as autism, mental retardation and attention deficit-hyperactivity disorder, but that fewer than half are diagnosed before starting school. The authors say warning signs include failure to: -focus on sights and sounds by 2 months. -initiate joyful behavior with parents by 4 months. -exchange smiles and sounds with parents by 8 to 9 months. -take a parent's hand to find a toy and point to objects by 12 to 16 months. Last year, the American Academy of Pediatrics recommended that pediatricians routinely evaluate children for developmental problems such as autism starting in infancy, and begin testing at age 9 months. "Waiting until a young child misses a major milestone such as walking or talking may result in late rather than early recognition ... depriving the child and family of the benefits of early identification and intervention," the academy said. Some critics worry that the trend will trigger needless diagnoses in children with normal variations in behavior. Dr. Michael Fitzpatrick, a London physician, said that while early recognition and treatment of true disorders are important, "the extension of these categories to include 20 to 30 percent of all children reflects a social trend of pathologizing and medicalizing children's lives, which seems to reflect difficulties of parents and teachers in dealing with familiar problems of childhood development." Dr. Stanley Greenspan, a psychiatry professor at George Washington University who co-authored the CDC-Interdisciplinary group report, said the idea is not to slap a label on babies and give them medication. Greenspan said the goal is to raise awareness about early warning signs and to encourage treatment to increase the chances that children can develop normally. Research on identifying early clues and testing treatments is booming. For example: -Dr. Fred Volkmar at Yale University is studying potential ways to diagnose autism in the first months of life, including whether looking at objects rather than people is a sign. "I think we're on the verge of being able to do a much better job" of diagnosing autism in infancy, Volkmar said. -Researcher Stephen Porges at the University of Illinois at Chicago is starting a five-year study of whether excessive crying past 6 months of age might be an early sign of autism, attention deficit or other behavior problems. -Greenspan is launching a multimillion-dollar study involving parents and babies at risk for autism or attention deficit disorder. One group will receive intensive behavior training, the other will not; both will be compared through age 5. While rigorous scientific evidence is needed to prove that early intervention succeeds, Greenspan said his work with patients has shown promise. Jacob didn't say his first word, "more," until he was in treatment and almost 2 - about a year later than normal. He didn't say "mama" until he was 3. He gets 33 hours of weekly home treatment with trained college students, including six hours most days. The tab is $70,000 yearly, paid for by California, one of the few states that pay, through state and federal funds, for early intensive autism treatment. Jacob's sessions involve lots of repetition, and rewards, including praise and treats, for a job well done. For example, to improve eye contact, teachers bounce him on a favorite giant ball, then stop. If he turns to look at them, he gets praise, maybe a piece of candy, and more bouncing. To teach language, they use activities like swinging that get him excited enough to make sounds, then offer rewards for sounds like vowels or consonants rather than humming. Then they name objects, encourage mimicking, and offer more rewards. Now he knows the alphabet, understands commands like "Bring me the cow and the horse toy," and can say simple sentences like "I want juice," his mother said. "We definitely hope to mainstream him. We hope that he will have a job and have a life where he can take care of himself and be happy," Day said. "Everyone has given us reason to believe that's not an outlandish expectation." Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/health/7495687.html	Plan would mandate HIV tests for pregnant women and newborns in N.J. | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Health Plan would mandate HIV tests for pregnant women and newborns in N.J. Story Published: May 14, 2007 at 9:09 AM PDT Story Updated: May 14, 2007 at 9:09 AM PDT TRENTON, N.J. (AP) - New Jersey would become the first state to require both pregnant women and newborns to be tested for HIV under a proposal introduced by the Senate president. The bill would require all pregnant women be tested for HIV twice, once early in the pregnancy and a second time in the third trimester. Every birthing facility in the state would have to test all newborns in their care. Senate President Richard J. Codey introduced the legislation on Thursday, which he described as a "no brainer." The Associated Press first reported on Codey's plan in March. "The key in the fight against HIV and AIDS is early detection and treatment," Codey said Friday. "For newborns this can be a lifesaving measure." Codey, D-Essex, said the bill stems from a Centers for Disease Control and Prevention report that found medical treatment during pregnancy can dramatically cut mother-to-child HIV transmission. The Center for Women Policy Studies, a Washington, D.C.-based feminist advocacy organization, opposes mandatory HIV testing, arguing it violates a woman's right to make their own childbearing and medical treatment decisions. Current New Jersey law requires providers only to offer HIV testing to pregnant women. Under Codey's proposal, the test would be given unless the mother chooses, in writing, not to have it. According to the Kaiser Foundation, a nonprofit research organization focusing on U.S. health care issues, four states - Arkansas, Michigan, Tennessee and Texas - require health care providers to test a mother for HIV, unless the mother specifically asks not to be tested. Connecticut and New York are the only states that test all newborns for HIV, according to the foundation. New Jersey has some of the highest rates in the nation for AIDS cases, women with AIDS and pediatric HIV and AIDS cases, according to the foundation. Codey's bill will be scheduled for hearings in the coming weeks. To become law, it must be approved by both the state Senate and Assembly, and then signed by the governor. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/health/7495687.html	Plan would mandate HIV tests for pregnant women and newborns in N.J. | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Health Plan would mandate HIV tests for pregnant women and newborns in N.J. Story Published: May 14, 2007 at 9:09 AM PDT Story Updated: May 14, 2007 at 9:09 AM PDT TRENTON, N.J. (AP) - New Jersey would become the first state to require both pregnant women and newborns to be tested for HIV under a proposal introduced by the Senate president. The bill would require all pregnant women be tested for HIV twice, once early in the pregnancy and a second time in the third trimester. Every birthing facility in the state would have to test all newborns in their care. Senate President Richard J. Codey introduced the legislation on Thursday, which he described as a "no brainer." The Associated Press first reported on Codey's plan in March. "The key in the fight against HIV and AIDS is early detection and treatment," Codey said Friday. "For newborns this can be a lifesaving measure." Codey, D-Essex, said the bill stems from a Centers for Disease Control and Prevention report that found medical treatment during pregnancy can dramatically cut mother-to-child HIV transmission. The Center for Women Policy Studies, a Washington, D.C.-based feminist advocacy organization, opposes mandatory HIV testing, arguing it violates a woman's right to make their own childbearing and medical treatment decisions. Current New Jersey law requires providers only to offer HIV testing to pregnant women. Under Codey's proposal, the test would be given unless the mother chooses, in writing, not to have it. According to the Kaiser Foundation, a nonprofit research organization focusing on U.S. health care issues, four states - Arkansas, Michigan, Tennessee and Texas - require health care providers to test a mother for HIV, unless the mother specifically asks not to be tested. Connecticut and New York are the only states that test all newborns for HIV, according to the foundation. New Jersey has some of the highest rates in the nation for AIDS cases, women with AIDS and pediatric HIV and AIDS cases, according to the foundation. Codey's bill will be scheduled for hearings in the coming weeks. To become law, it must be approved by both the state Senate and Assembly, and then signed by the governor. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/health/7499992.html	Blood pressure rising around the globe, not just in Western world | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Health Blood pressure rising around the globe, not just in Western world Story Published: May 14, 2007 at 1:49 PM PDT Story Updated: May 14, 2007 at 1:49 PM PDT WASHINGTON (AP) - The numbers are a shock: Almost 1 billion people worldwide have high blood pressure, and over half a billion more will harbor this silent killer by 2025. It's not just a problem for the ever-fattening Western world. Even in parts of Africa, high blood pressure is becoming common. That translates into millions of deaths from heart disease alone. Yet hypertension doesn't command the attention of, say, bird flu, which so far has killed fewer than 200 people. "Hypertension has gone a bit out of fashion," says Dr. Jan Ostergren of Sweden's Karolinska University Hospital, who co-authored a first-of-its-kind analysis of the global impact of high blood pressure. The idea: to rev up world governments to fight bad blood pressure just as countries have banded together in the past to fight infectious diseases. International heart specialists welcome the push. "Even in the U.S., the majority of people with high blood pressure are not treated adequately," says Dr. Sidney Smith of the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, who advises the World Heart Federation. "Look at China, look at Africa, go around the world. It is a major risk factor." And the dangers go well beyond the heart. High blood pressure is a leading cause of strokes and kidney failure. It also plays a role in blindness and even dementia. Patients seldom notice symptoms until organs already have been damaged. Yet treating high blood pressure before that happens is a medical best-buy. Improving diet and exercise can help. When that's not enough, blood pressure drugs are among the oldest and thus cheapest on the market - 21 cents a day for a leading diuretic. Ostergren joined experts from the London School of Economics and the State University of New York to assemble two teams of specialists and map what they call the coming crisis of hypertension: 1.56 billion people are expected to have it by 2025. With funding from drug maker Novartis Pharma AG, they're providing copies to governments and health officials around the globe; a briefing in Washington is set for Thursday. The report essentially calls for a cultural change. Consider: In the U.S., commiserating over blood pressure readings is an accepted dinner-table topic. Because black Americans are at especially high risk - roughly 40 percent are affected - hypertension has become a sermon topic at majority-black churches, and post-service screenings aren't uncommon. The government even advertises about the condition. That adds up to an openness about blood pressure not seen in much of the world, says report co-author Dr. Michael Weber of SUNY's Downstate College of Medicine. In some regions, "it's sort of an insult to your manhood if you have to take a blood-pressure medicine," Weber says, citing estimates that hypertension affects about one in three adults in Mexico, Paraguay and Venezuela. "We need to break those barriers as well and make it perfectly fashionable. We need to get role models in those countries to say, 'You know what? I've got high blood pressure."' The U.S. still needs to improve, too, Weber hastens to add. High blood pressure affects nearly one in three adult Americans as well, or 72 million people. About a third have their condition well-controlled, not nearly enough but better than other countries that track treatment, the report found. Normal blood pressure is measured at less than 120 over 80. Anyone can get high blood pressure, a level of 140 over 90 or more. But being overweight and inactive, and eating too much salt, all increase the risk. So does getting older. The world's population is aging and fattening, fueling a continued increase in blood pressure problems. Remarkably, the report cites worse hypertension rates in much of Western Europe than in the U.S., despite cultural similarities: 38 percent in England, Sweden and Italy; 45 percent in Spain; 55 percent in Germany. But the biggest jump is expected in developing countries and nations rapidly moving to more Western-style economies, the report warns. In parts of India, studies suggest one in three urban adults has high blood pressure, while it's still rare in rural areas with more traditional lifestyles. More than a quarter of adults in China have hypertension. So do one in four in Ghana and South Africa. Treatment is difficult, because patients often quit their medicine, not understanding it's necessary even when they feel good. Also, doctors may be reluctant to prescribe the two- or three-drug combinations that half of patients wind up needing. For poorer countries, the tab for even low-cost diuretics is an issue - not to mention public education about sticking to treatment, notes Smith, the World Heart Federation adviser, who was not involved in the new report. But fighting bad blood pressure could mean that developing countries avoid epidemics of full-blown heart disease, which they definitely can't afford, Smith stresses. World health and economic groups already are brainstorming strategies to help, such as whether industries that move into poor countries should be required to screen their workers for high blood pressure. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/health/7499992.html	Blood pressure rising around the globe, not just in Western world | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Health Blood pressure rising around the globe, not just in Western world Story Published: May 14, 2007 at 1:49 PM PDT Story Updated: May 14, 2007 at 1:49 PM PDT WASHINGTON (AP) - The numbers are a shock: Almost 1 billion people worldwide have high blood pressure, and over half a billion more will harbor this silent killer by 2025. It's not just a problem for the ever-fattening Western world. Even in parts of Africa, high blood pressure is becoming common. That translates into millions of deaths from heart disease alone. Yet hypertension doesn't command the attention of, say, bird flu, which so far has killed fewer than 200 people. "Hypertension has gone a bit out of fashion," says Dr. Jan Ostergren of Sweden's Karolinska University Hospital, who co-authored a first-of-its-kind analysis of the global impact of high blood pressure. The idea: to rev up world governments to fight bad blood pressure just as countries have banded together in the past to fight infectious diseases. International heart specialists welcome the push. "Even in the U.S., the majority of people with high blood pressure are not treated adequately," says Dr. Sidney Smith of the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, who advises the World Heart Federation. "Look at China, look at Africa, go around the world. It is a major risk factor." And the dangers go well beyond the heart. High blood pressure is a leading cause of strokes and kidney failure. It also plays a role in blindness and even dementia. Patients seldom notice symptoms until organs already have been damaged. Yet treating high blood pressure before that happens is a medical best-buy. Improving diet and exercise can help. When that's not enough, blood pressure drugs are among the oldest and thus cheapest on the market - 21 cents a day for a leading diuretic. Ostergren joined experts from the London School of Economics and the State University of New York to assemble two teams of specialists and map what they call the coming crisis of hypertension: 1.56 billion people are expected to have it by 2025. With funding from drug maker Novartis Pharma AG, they're providing copies to governments and health officials around the globe; a briefing in Washington is set for Thursday. The report essentially calls for a cultural change. Consider: In the U.S., commiserating over blood pressure readings is an accepted dinner-table topic. Because black Americans are at especially high risk - roughly 40 percent are affected - hypertension has become a sermon topic at majority-black churches, and post-service screenings aren't uncommon. The government even advertises about the condition. That adds up to an openness about blood pressure not seen in much of the world, says report co-author Dr. Michael Weber of SUNY's Downstate College of Medicine. In some regions, "it's sort of an insult to your manhood if you have to take a blood-pressure medicine," Weber says, citing estimates that hypertension affects about one in three adults in Mexico, Paraguay and Venezuela. "We need to break those barriers as well and make it perfectly fashionable. We need to get role models in those countries to say, 'You know what? I've got high blood pressure."' The U.S. still needs to improve, too, Weber hastens to add. High blood pressure affects nearly one in three adult Americans as well, or 72 million people. About a third have their condition well-controlled, not nearly enough but better than other countries that track treatment, the report found. Normal blood pressure is measured at less than 120 over 80. Anyone can get high blood pressure, a level of 140 over 90 or more. But being overweight and inactive, and eating too much salt, all increase the risk. So does getting older. The world's population is aging and fattening, fueling a continued increase in blood pressure problems. Remarkably, the report cites worse hypertension rates in much of Western Europe than in the U.S., despite cultural similarities: 38 percent in England, Sweden and Italy; 45 percent in Spain; 55 percent in Germany. But the biggest jump is expected in developing countries and nations rapidly moving to more Western-style economies, the report warns. In parts of India, studies suggest one in three urban adults has high blood pressure, while it's still rare in rural areas with more traditional lifestyles. More than a quarter of adults in China have hypertension. So do one in four in Ghana and South Africa. Treatment is difficult, because patients often quit their medicine, not understanding it's necessary even when they feel good. Also, doctors may be reluctant to prescribe the two- or three-drug combinations that half of patients wind up needing. For poorer countries, the tab for even low-cost diuretics is an issue - not to mention public education about sticking to treatment, notes Smith, the World Heart Federation adviser, who was not involved in the new report. But fighting bad blood pressure could mean that developing countries avoid epidemics of full-blown heart disease, which they definitely can't afford, Smith stresses. World health and economic groups already are brainstorming strategies to help, such as whether industries that move into poor countries should be required to screen their workers for high blood pressure. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/health/7513462.html	FDA: FluMist effective for kids under 5 | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Health FDA: FluMist effective for kids under 5 Story Published: May 15, 2007 at 9:20 AM PDT Story Updated: May 15, 2007 at 9:20 AM PDT WASHINGTON (AP) - Federal regulators say MedImmune's nasal spray flu vaccine is effective for children under age 5, even though it may increase the risk of respiratory problems. The vaccine, Flumist, was once thought to be a possible blockbuster drug, but has had modest sales because approved use is limited to healthy people between the age of 5 and 49 years old. MedImmune wants Food and Drug Administration approval to market the nasal spray vaccine to young children, which could provide a major revenue boost for the company since the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommends children between 6 months and six years old get an annual influenza virus vaccine. Flumist sales totaled $36.4 million last year, well behind MedImmune's top-selling respiratory virus drug Synagis, which posted sales of $1.1 billion. The FDA said in documents posted to its Web site Monday that the vaccine appears to prevent influenza in children as young as six months. However, reviewers also noted that children taking MedImmune's nasal spray vaccine were more likely to develop wheezing problems when compared to children treated with an injectable vaccine. According to one FDA-reviewed study, about 3 percent of children 6 months to 1 year old who took Flumist were hospitalized for respiratory problems compared to 1 percent of children that age who took the injected vaccine. Although the respiratory problems did not cause any deaths, FDA will ask a panel of outside experts Wednesday whether the side effects warrant limiting the vaccine's use in young children. FDA is not obligated to follow the panel's recommendation though it usually does. Earlier this year MedImmune won the FDA's OK to market a new version of Flumist, which was first approved in 2003, that can be stored in refrigerators instead of freezers. The company said the new formulation should expand the vaccine's use and will be available for the 2007-2008 flu season. Last month, Gaithersburg, Md.-based MedImmune agreed to be bought out by British drug maker AstraZeneca for $15.6 billion. The deal is expected to close in June. Shares of MedImmune Inc. rose 2 cents to close at $57.02 on the Nasdaq Stock Market. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/health/7513462.html	FDA: FluMist effective for kids under 5 | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Health FDA: FluMist effective for kids under 5 Story Published: May 15, 2007 at 9:20 AM PDT Story Updated: May 15, 2007 at 9:20 AM PDT WASHINGTON (AP) - Federal regulators say MedImmune's nasal spray flu vaccine is effective for children under age 5, even though it may increase the risk of respiratory problems. The vaccine, Flumist, was once thought to be a possible blockbuster drug, but has had modest sales because approved use is limited to healthy people between the age of 5 and 49 years old. MedImmune wants Food and Drug Administration approval to market the nasal spray vaccine to young children, which could provide a major revenue boost for the company since the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommends children between 6 months and six years old get an annual influenza virus vaccine. Flumist sales totaled $36.4 million last year, well behind MedImmune's top-selling respiratory virus drug Synagis, which posted sales of $1.1 billion. The FDA said in documents posted to its Web site Monday that the vaccine appears to prevent influenza in children as young as six months. However, reviewers also noted that children taking MedImmune's nasal spray vaccine were more likely to develop wheezing problems when compared to children treated with an injectable vaccine. According to one FDA-reviewed study, about 3 percent of children 6 months to 1 year old who took Flumist were hospitalized for respiratory problems compared to 1 percent of children that age who took the injected vaccine. Although the respiratory problems did not cause any deaths, FDA will ask a panel of outside experts Wednesday whether the side effects warrant limiting the vaccine's use in young children. FDA is not obligated to follow the panel's recommendation though it usually does. Earlier this year MedImmune won the FDA's OK to market a new version of Flumist, which was first approved in 2003, that can be stored in refrigerators instead of freezers. The company said the new formulation should expand the vaccine's use and will be available for the 2007-2008 flu season. Last month, Gaithersburg, Md.-based MedImmune agreed to be bought out by British drug maker AstraZeneca for $15.6 billion. The deal is expected to close in June. Shares of MedImmune Inc. rose 2 cents to close at $57.02 on the Nasdaq Stock Market. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/health/7513407.html	Young boy receives new heart after getting rare implanted pump | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Health Young boy receives new heart after getting rare implanted pump In this April 19, 2007, photo, Adrian Saucedo plays with a toy in his bed at Arkansas Children's Hospital in Little Rock, Ark. Story Published: May 15, 2007 at 9:16 AM PDT Story Updated: May 15, 2007 at 9:16 AM PDT LITTLE ROCK (AP) - An 8-year-old boy from Mexico received a new heart Monday to replace his diseased one, after spending weeks in a Texas intensive care unit and getting a rare implanted heart pump in Arkansas. Adrian Saucedo went into surgery just after 3 a.m. for a procedure that lasted about seven hours, said Dr. Elizabeth Frazier, head of the cardiac transplantation program at Arkansas Children's Hospital. His new heart, flown into Little Rock by an accompanying physician, began beating after warming inside the boy's chest, requiring no electrical shock to come back to life, Frazier said. "It's always a miracle," Frazier told reporters at a news conference Monday afternoon. "Every time it happens, it's a miracle." Frazier said Adrian would remain on a ventilator for about a day, then would have the tube removed from his throat so he could speak. Within four to five days, the doctor said Adrian would be up and moving around, a vast improvement for a boy who only weeks earlier needed an experimental heart pump implanted in his chest for him to continue living. Adrian lives with his mother and father in Piedras Negras, Mexico, just across the border from Eagle Pass, Texas. He spent more than 60 days at Methodist Children's Hospital of South Texas, after doctors determined he suffered from cardiomyopathy - a condition caused in his case by a viral infection eating away at his heart tissue. While several hospitals rejected him as a transplant patient, residents of San Antonio, Texas, raised half a million dollars for the boy's treatment. Arkansas Children's Hospital in Little Rock admitted Adrian on April 19. But within days of his arrival, Adrian's condition worsened. Doctors implanted a Berlin heart, the only blood pump available for children at risk of heart failure - a rarity as the U.S. Food and Drug Administration only allows it in the most extreme circumstances. Frazier said the hospital received word Sunday a heart matching Adrian's blood type and weight was available. Frazier said privacy rules prohibited her from saying where the heart came from. However, she said Dr. Robert D.B. "Jake" Jaquiss, the hospital's chief of pediatric cardiothoracic surgery, flew on a jet to retrieve the heart and bring it back to Little Rock. The boy went into surgery with Dr. Michiaki Imamura and the hospital's heart team, even before the jet carrying the heart landed, she said. "Fortunately, the donor heart in this situation promptly started once it warmed up," Frazier said. "It seems to be functioning well within the parameters we look at, but the first 24 to 48 hours is critical. Once things stabilize and his medications are stabilized, then we would hope that he would make progress as far as getting off of the breathing machine." Currently, the boy and his family are in the United States on a humanitarian visa, and they plan to return home. Frazier said doctors at the hospital spoke with Mexican physicians about the care Adrian would need. While Adrian's hospital care likely will exceed the half a million dollars raised for him, Frazier said the hospital would handle the rest of the finances without offering specifics. An official from Little Rock's Mexican consulate also attended the news conference. Frazier said Adrian's chances at a full recovery were good - 75 percent of all children who have heart transplants survive with chances even better for those who suffer the disease Adrian had. But the boy could face infection from the operation or kidney damage from being on the bypass machine. "We're not out of the woods 'til we're out of the woods," Frazier said. "There's always that question in that once you transport a heart is it going to restart and how good is it going to feel about it. We've passed that hurdle." Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/health/7513407.html	Young boy receives new heart after getting rare implanted pump | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Health Young boy receives new heart after getting rare implanted pump In this April 19, 2007, photo, Adrian Saucedo plays with a toy in his bed at Arkansas Children's Hospital in Little Rock, Ark. Story Published: May 15, 2007 at 9:16 AM PDT Story Updated: May 15, 2007 at 9:16 AM PDT LITTLE ROCK (AP) - An 8-year-old boy from Mexico received a new heart Monday to replace his diseased one, after spending weeks in a Texas intensive care unit and getting a rare implanted heart pump in Arkansas. Adrian Saucedo went into surgery just after 3 a.m. for a procedure that lasted about seven hours, said Dr. Elizabeth Frazier, head of the cardiac transplantation program at Arkansas Children's Hospital. His new heart, flown into Little Rock by an accompanying physician, began beating after warming inside the boy's chest, requiring no electrical shock to come back to life, Frazier said. "It's always a miracle," Frazier told reporters at a news conference Monday afternoon. "Every time it happens, it's a miracle." Frazier said Adrian would remain on a ventilator for about a day, then would have the tube removed from his throat so he could speak. Within four to five days, the doctor said Adrian would be up and moving around, a vast improvement for a boy who only weeks earlier needed an experimental heart pump implanted in his chest for him to continue living. Adrian lives with his mother and father in Piedras Negras, Mexico, just across the border from Eagle Pass, Texas. He spent more than 60 days at Methodist Children's Hospital of South Texas, after doctors determined he suffered from cardiomyopathy - a condition caused in his case by a viral infection eating away at his heart tissue. While several hospitals rejected him as a transplant patient, residents of San Antonio, Texas, raised half a million dollars for the boy's treatment. Arkansas Children's Hospital in Little Rock admitted Adrian on April 19. But within days of his arrival, Adrian's condition worsened. Doctors implanted a Berlin heart, the only blood pump available for children at risk of heart failure - a rarity as the U.S. Food and Drug Administration only allows it in the most extreme circumstances. Frazier said the hospital received word Sunday a heart matching Adrian's blood type and weight was available. Frazier said privacy rules prohibited her from saying where the heart came from. However, she said Dr. Robert D.B. "Jake" Jaquiss, the hospital's chief of pediatric cardiothoracic surgery, flew on a jet to retrieve the heart and bring it back to Little Rock. The boy went into surgery with Dr. Michiaki Imamura and the hospital's heart team, even before the jet carrying the heart landed, she said. "Fortunately, the donor heart in this situation promptly started once it warmed up," Frazier said. "It seems to be functioning well within the parameters we look at, but the first 24 to 48 hours is critical. Once things stabilize and his medications are stabilized, then we would hope that he would make progress as far as getting off of the breathing machine." Currently, the boy and his family are in the United States on a humanitarian visa, and they plan to return home. Frazier said doctors at the hospital spoke with Mexican physicians about the care Adrian would need. While Adrian's hospital care likely will exceed the half a million dollars raised for him, Frazier said the hospital would handle the rest of the finances without offering specifics. An official from Little Rock's Mexican consulate also attended the news conference. Frazier said Adrian's chances at a full recovery were good - 75 percent of all children who have heart transplants survive with chances even better for those who suffer the disease Adrian had. But the boy could face infection from the operation or kidney damage from being on the bypass machine. "We're not out of the woods 'til we're out of the woods," Frazier said. "There's always that question in that once you transport a heart is it going to restart and how good is it going to feel about it. We've passed that hurdle." Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/health/7513527.html	Professors say new protein can stop spread of certain cancers | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Health Professors say new protein can stop spread of certain cancers University of Oklahoma professors Tom Pento, right foreground, and Roger Harrison are photographed in a lab at Sarkeys Energy Center in Norman, Okla. Story Published: May 15, 2007 at 9:22 AM PDT Story Updated: May 15, 2007 at 9:22 AM PDT NORMAN, Okla. (AP) - Two professors at the University of Oklahoma say they've developed a protein that can stop the spread of certain cancer cells without damaging normal cells. Thomas Pento and Roger Harrison helped develop a fusion protein that keeps some types of cancer cells from ingesting a vital protein called methionine. The fusion protein doesn't affect normal cells because, unlike cancer cells, they can be healthy without that protein. Chemotherapy and radiation therapies kill normal cells along with cancer cells, which often cause sickness and hair loss. "Roger has created a mechanism that delivers these compounds specifically to the surface of cancer cells so normal cells won't be affected but only the cancer cells will be damaged," Pento said. "So you can see it would cause a lot less toxicity and it should really be a lot more effective." Pento is a Noble Foundation presidential professor of pharmacy at the OU Health Sciences Center; Harrison is an associate professor of chemical, biological and materials engineering on the Norman campus. They worked with other OU scientists, including Xiao-Ping Zang, Naveen Palwai, Megan Lerner and Dan Brackett, research director at the Health Sciences Center's surgery department. Pento said the research started with breast cancer and expanded to include other types of solid tumors. They found the fusion protein to be just as helpful in fighting lung, prostate and pancreatic cancers. "It could be applicable to many types of cancer," Pento said, "but we've found that it's effective for those four types of cancer for sure." Despite successful testing to this point, Harrison said the fusion protein will need another round of animal tests before moving on to years of human clinical testing. Three phases of clinical tests could take two years each. "So it could be in the order of 10 years," he said. "It sounds so far away, but realistically, given the FDA and all the phases of testing, it could be done rapidly." The two professors have applied for patents on their technology and plan to conduct animal testing themselves before launching their own company or licensing with a large pharmaceutical company to do it. "If you don't patent it and get that protection, then no pharmaceutical company is going to spend the half to three-quarter billion dollars that it takes to do the clinical testing and to get this drug on the market," Pento said. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/health/7513527.html	Professors say new protein can stop spread of certain cancers | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Health Professors say new protein can stop spread of certain cancers University of Oklahoma professors Tom Pento, right foreground, and Roger Harrison are photographed in a lab at Sarkeys Energy Center in Norman, Okla. Story Published: May 15, 2007 at 9:22 AM PDT Story Updated: May 15, 2007 at 9:22 AM PDT NORMAN, Okla. (AP) - Two professors at the University of Oklahoma say they've developed a protein that can stop the spread of certain cancer cells without damaging normal cells. Thomas Pento and Roger Harrison helped develop a fusion protein that keeps some types of cancer cells from ingesting a vital protein called methionine. The fusion protein doesn't affect normal cells because, unlike cancer cells, they can be healthy without that protein. Chemotherapy and radiation therapies kill normal cells along with cancer cells, which often cause sickness and hair loss. "Roger has created a mechanism that delivers these compounds specifically to the surface of cancer cells so normal cells won't be affected but only the cancer cells will be damaged," Pento said. "So you can see it would cause a lot less toxicity and it should really be a lot more effective." Pento is a Noble Foundation presidential professor of pharmacy at the OU Health Sciences Center; Harrison is an associate professor of chemical, biological and materials engineering on the Norman campus. They worked with other OU scientists, including Xiao-Ping Zang, Naveen Palwai, Megan Lerner and Dan Brackett, research director at the Health Sciences Center's surgery department. Pento said the research started with breast cancer and expanded to include other types of solid tumors. They found the fusion protein to be just as helpful in fighting lung, prostate and pancreatic cancers. "It could be applicable to many types of cancer," Pento said, "but we've found that it's effective for those four types of cancer for sure." Despite successful testing to this point, Harrison said the fusion protein will need another round of animal tests before moving on to years of human clinical testing. Three phases of clinical tests could take two years each. "So it could be in the order of 10 years," he said. "It sounds so far away, but realistically, given the FDA and all the phases of testing, it could be done rapidly." The two professors have applied for patents on their technology and plan to conduct animal testing themselves before launching their own company or licensing with a large pharmaceutical company to do it. "If you don't patent it and get that protection, then no pharmaceutical company is going to spend the half to three-quarter billion dollars that it takes to do the clinical testing and to get this drug on the market," Pento said. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/health/7464652.html	Lose the ads, not the weight, says doctors' group | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Health Lose the ads, not the weight, says doctors' group Story Published: May 11, 2007 at 11:58 AM PDT Story Updated: May 11, 2007 at 11:58 AM PDT WASHINGTON (AP) - An ad campaign that suggested milk can help people lose weight is ending, the Federal Trade Commission told a doctors' group that had complained. The Physicians Committee for Responsible Medicine contended the weight loss claims were false and misleading. The group, in a 2005 petition, asked the commission to order a halt to the dairy advertisements. The agency did not take that step, but said in a letter to the committee that the groups behind the ads planned to end them. "It is obvious that the industry did not have a leg to stand on," Neal Barnard, president of the Washington-based doctors committee, said Thursday. His group advocates a vegan diet, which typically includes no animal products. The two marketing campaigns at issue involve the "Milk your diet. Lose Weight!" ads on television, Internet and in magazines, and the "3-A-Day. Burn More Fat, Lose Weight" ads, which are now mostly Web-based. The FTC, in a letter May 3 to the committee, said the agency met with Agriculture Department officials and representatives for the two campaigns, which decided "to discontinue all advertising and other marketing activities involving weight loss claims until further research provides stronger, more conclusive evidence." Susan Ruland, a spokeswoman for the "Milk your Diet" campaign, said there was nothing misleading about the ads. "We absolutely stand behind our weight loss campaign and the science supporting our messages," said Ruland, who represents the National Fluid Milk Processor Promotion Board. "There's a strong body of scientific evidence that demonstrates a connection between dairy and weight loss." Still, she said, the board plans to phase out the milk ads and focus the campaign instead on how dairy can help promote a healthy diet. The National Dairy Promotion and Research Board said it has already changed its "3-A-Day" campaign. The Agriculture Department, which has oversight of the two boards, had approved the ads. A spokesman said the agency supports the decision to pull back from the campaigns. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Family has questions after man is found dead Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Copper River salmon arrive in style Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/health/7473132.html	Wis. calf born with two noses | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Health Wis. calf born with two noses Story Published: May 11, 2007 at 9:01 PM PDT Story Updated: May 12, 2007 at 5:02 PM PDT MERRILL, Wis. (AP) - Mark Krombholz had to look twice at his new calf, Lucy - one time for each nose. ''I didn't notice anything too different about her until I got her in the barn,'' Krombholz said, ''and all of a sudden I went to feed her a bottle of milk, and I thought maybe she'd been kicked in the nose and there were two noses there.'' The second, smaller nose sits on top of the first. ''It's a functioning nose because the middle of her second nose, the flap would go in and out when she drank out of the bottle like that,'' Krombholz said. ''It was kind of funny.'' Breeder Scott Grund said Lucy's noses seem to be working fine. ''It looked like she was comfortable laying there in her bedding and breathing and spunky just like you want to see,'' Grund said. ''It's just that she's got two noses.'' That kind of rare deformity is usually not the result of genetics, he said. But breeders do track such mutations. ''We'll fill out a form, send that on to the company in Shawano and they will keep record of it,'' Grund said. ''If by chance this would occur more than a few times, they would start looking at maybe the sire that we're using.'' Krombholz said Lucy, who was born May 4, will be a pet and bred if she's able. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Family has questions after man is found dead Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Copper River salmon arrive in style Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/health/7464627.html	Merck vaccine production problem means extra shot for kids | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Health Merck vaccine production problem means extra shot for kids Story Published: May 11, 2007 at 11:56 AM PDT Story Updated: May 11, 2007 at 11:56 AM PDT TRENTON, N.J. (AP) - Young children needing immunization against chickenpox and three other diseases likely will have to get an extra shot, due to manufacturing problems that have halted production of a four-disease combo vaccine made by Merck & Co. Merck said Thursday that its ProQuad vaccine, which protects against measles, mumps and rubella as well as chickenpox, won't be available from about July until at least year's end. "It's too early to say at this point whether new (ProQuad) supplies will be available in 2008," said Mary Elizabeth Blake, spokeswoman for Merck's vaccines division. However, the drugmaker expects to have plenty of two separate vaccines that cover the same diseases: Varivax, for chickenpox, and M-M-R II, for measles, mumps and rubella. The federal government recommends children get each of those shots twice, once at age 12 months to 15 months and again between ages four and six years old, or - when available - they can receive the ProQuad vaccine twice. Last year, the government recommended the second chickenpox shot because of outbreaks among schoolchildren, apparently due to waning potency of the vaccine. Whitehouse Station, N.J.-based Merck is the only U.S. source for vaccines against the varicella zoster virus, which causes chickenpox in children and shingles in adults. Blake said Merck decided to shift available supply of the key vaccine ingredient against chickenpox - live but weakened varicella virus - from ProQuad to Varivax and its shingles vaccine, Zostavax. The drugmaker recently informed the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention of its decision. "It makes sense to cut back on ProQuad first" because that requires more virus, said Dr. Lance Rodewald, director of the CDC's immunization services division. He said the agency had been assured there would be an adequate supply of both Varivax, with an expected demand of more than 8 million doses, and Merck's Zostavax vaccine against shingles. Zostavax was just approved last May and is recommended for all adults aged 60 and older. Shingles, also called herpes zoster, is a painful skin rash that strikes roughly one in four adults who previously had chickenpox. The government does not have a firm projection of demand for Zostavax, Rodewald said. According to the CDC, Merck charges private doctors about $45 for M-M-R II and $75 for Varivax, slightly less than the $125 price for ProQuad. All or most of the cost of getting the shots is generally covered by private insurance and the federal Vaccines for Children program for the poor. In trading on the New York Stock Exchange, Merck shares fell 97 cents to $51.08, near their 52-week high of $52.63. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Family has questions after man is found dead Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Copper River salmon arrive in style Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/health/7477752.html	Thin people may be fat inside | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Health Thin people may be fat inside This undated MRI scan image released by Imperial College, London, provides a detailed look at where fat is stored internally in the human body. Internal fat is shown as yellow, external fat is green and muscles are red. Story Published: May 12, 2007 at 12:43 PM PDT Story Updated: May 12, 2007 at 12:43 PM PDT LONDON (AP) - If it really is what's on the inside that counts, then a lot of thin people might be in trouble. Some doctors now think that the internal fat surrounding vital organs like the heart, liver or pancreas - invisible to the naked eye - could be as dangerous as the more obvious external fat that bulges underneath the skin. ''Being thin doesn't automatically mean you're not fat,'' said Dr. Jimmy Bell, a professor of molecular imaging at Imperial College, London. Since 1994, Bell and his team have scanned nearly 800 people with MRI machines to create ''fat maps'' showing where people store fat. According to the data, people who maintain their weight through diet rather than exercise are likely to have major deposits of internal fat, even if they are otherwise slim. ''The whole concept of being fat needs to be redefined,'' said Bell, whose research is funded by Britain's Medical Research Council. Without a clear warning signal - like a rounder middle - doctors worry that thin people may be lulled into falsely assuming that because they're not overweight, they're healthy. ''Just because someone is lean doesn't make them immune to diabetes or other risk factors for heart disease,'' said Dr. Louis Teichholz, chief of cardiology at Hackensack Hospital in New Jersey, who was not involved in Bell's research. Even people with normal Body Mass Index scores - a standard obesity measure that divides your weight by the square of your height - can have surprising levels of fat deposits inside. Of the women scanned by Bell and his colleagues, as many as 45 percent of those with normal BMI scores (20 to 25) actually had excessive levels of internal fat. Among men, the percentage was nearly 60 percent. Relating the news to what Bell calls ''TOFIs'' - people who are ''thin outside, fat inside'' - is rarely uneventful. ''The thinner people are, the bigger the surprise,'' he said, adding the researchers even found TOFIs among people who are professional models. According to Bell, people who are fat on the inside are essentially on the threshold of being obese. They eat too many fatty, sugary foods - and exercise too little to work it off _ but they are not eating enough to actually be fat. Scientists believe we naturally accumulate fat around the belly first, but at some point, the body may start storing it elsewhere. Still, most experts believe that being of normal weight is an indicator of good health, and that BMI is a reliable measurement. ''BMI won't give you the exact indication of where fat is, but it's a useful clinical tool,'' said Dr. Toni Steer, a nutritionist at Britain's Medical Research Council. Doctors are unsure about the exact dangers of internal fat, but some suspect it contributes to the risk of heart disease and diabetes. They theorize that internal fat disrupts the body's communication systems. The fat enveloping internal organs might be sending the body mistaken chemical signals to store fat inside organs like the liver or pancreas. This could ultimately lead to insulin resistance, type 2 diabetes, or heart disease. Experts have long known that fat, active people can be healthier than their skinny, inactive counterparts. ''Normal-weight persons who are sedentary and unfit are at much higher risk for mortality than obese persons who are active and fit,'' said Dr. Steven Blair, an obesity expert at the University of South Carolina. For example, despite their ripples of fat, super-sized Sumo wrestlers probably have a better metabolic profile than some of their slim, sedentary spectators, Bell said. That's because the wrestlers' fat is primarily stored under the skin, not streaking throughout their vital organs and muscles. The good news is that internal fat can be easily burned off through exercise or even by improving your diet. ''Even if you don't see it on your bathroom scale, caloric restriction and physical exercise have an aggressive effect on visceral fat,'' said Dr. Bob Ross, an obesity expert at Queen's University in Canada. Because many factors contribute to heart disease, Teichholz says it's difficult to determine the precise danger of internal fat - though it certainly doesn't help. ''Obesity is a risk factor, but it's lower down on the totem pole of risk factors,'' he said, explaining that whether or not people smoke, their family histories and blood pressure and cholesterol rates are more important determinants than both external and internal fat. When it comes to being fit, experts say there is no short-cut. ''If you just want to look thin, then maybe dieting is enough,'' Bell said. ''But if you want to actually be healthy, then exercise has to be an important component of your lifestyle.'' Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Family has questions after man is found dead Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Copper River salmon arrive in style Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/health	KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Health Professors say new protein can stop spread of certain cancers Two professors at the University of Oklahoma say they've developed a protein that can stop the spread of certain cancer cells without damaging normal cells. FDA: FluMist effective for kids under 5 The vaccine, Flumist, was once thought to be a possible blockbuster drug, but has had modest sales because approved use is limited to healthy people between the age of 5 and 49 years old. Young boy receives new heart after getting rare implanted pump An 8-year-old boy from Mexico received a new heart Monday to replace his diseased one, after spending weeks in a Texas intensive care unit and getting a rare implanted heart pump in Arkansas. Doctors increasingly trying to diagnose mental disorders in babies Blood pressure rising around the globe, not just in Western world Plan would mandate HIV tests for pregnant women and newborns in N.J. Thin people may be fat inside Wis. calf born with two noses Lose the ads, not the weight, says doctors' group Merck vaccine production problem means extra shot for kids Purdue Pharma executives plead guilty to misleading public about OxyContin addiction FDA approves patch to treat early Parkinson's symptoms Study links lung scarring disease to post-Sept. 11 WTC work Dentists say children's dental health has not improved Farmed fish fed contaminated material linked to pet food recall VA urged to improve testing, compensation for veterans with stress disorder Clinton Foundation deal to lower cost of AIDS drugs Drug maker to pay $19.5 million over OxyContin promotion Millions of dollars intended for poor probably stayed with insurers, investigators say Study suggests coping strategies for childhood immunizations Report: Chinese factory made chemical in tainted medicine linked to Panama deaths Cancer survivor, 75, skis to North Pole FDA seeks antidepressant suicide warning Bush extolls benefits of exercise, then hops on bike 20 Million chickens held because of feed Brazil to bypass patent on U.S. AIDS drug Researchers announce possible new treatment for autism Will face masks help during a super-flu? Scientists say don't count on it Researchers examine bio-magnetic Sensors Celebrities boost lemon detox fad, but it may not be good for your health Canada confirms new mad cow case Study: Hormones may ward off dementia Studies hint at unexpected heart rhythm problem with bone-building drugs Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Family has questions after man is found dead Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Copper River salmon arrive in style Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/health/7500022.html	Doctors increasingly trying to diagnose mental disorders in babies | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Health Doctors increasingly trying to diagnose mental disorders in babies Story Published: May 14, 2007 at 1:50 PM PDT Story Updated: May 14, 2007 at 1:50 PM PDT CHICAGO (AP) - Within days of their birth, healthy babies will look you in the eye. By 4 months, they will delight in others. And by 9 months, they will exchange smiles. Jacob Day did none of those things. "We used to say it was like it burned his eyes to look at you," said his mother, Tamie Day of Antelope, Calif. "It was like a physically painful thing for him. It wasn't just that he wasn't looking at us; he was purposefully looking away." Day, who has a psychology degree, suspected her son might have autism. She enrolled him in a study, published in April, that found that babies like Jacob are indeed at high risk for autism if they do not respond to their names by 12 months of age. At 18 months, he was formally diagnosed with autism, about a year earlier than usual. Before he turned 2, Jacob began daily intensive behavior treatment designed to help him lead a more normal life. He is part of a growing field in psychiatry called infant mental health. Doctors and scientists are increasingly looking for early signs in babies of autism, attention deficit disorder and other mental problems that just a generation ago, scarcely anyone thought could appear in children so young. Some scientists even believe that intensive treatment in some susceptible babies can actually prevent autism, attention deficit disorder and other problems. An influential Institute of Medicine report in 2000 helped energize this idea. The report emphasized the plasticity of babies' brains. It also explained how interacting with babies can change their brain wiring. "We used to say `nature versus nurture,' but now people really think it's 'nature through nurture,"' said the University of Chicago's Dr. Lawrence Gray. Tamie Day noticed the first ominous clue the night she and her husband, Chris, brought Jacob home after his birth. "We walked in the door and he wouldn't stop looking at our ceiling fan," she said. "The next day, that's all he would look at." Babies typically begin making eye contact soon after birth, and "understand at a basic, perhaps hardwired level, that eyes are special - they look more at eyes than at other parts of the face," said Sally Ozonoff, an autism specialist at the University of California at Davis' MIND Institute. When his mother expressed her autism concerns at Jacob's 6-month checkup, the doctor said "we were being a little overzealous," Day said. Still, there was no pointing, no clapping, no shared smiles, and when Jacob would laugh, it seemed like his own private joke. So his parents sought out UC-Davis specialists, who gave them the heartbreaking diagnosis. Jacob, now 3, has made meaningful progress thanks to treatment, his mother said, including a breakthrough moment at age 2. It still makes her cry to recall it. She was giving Jacob a bath, playing the "itsy bitsy spider" finger game, when he looked up and really gazed into her eyes. "He was smiling up at me and I realized that was the first time he had done that," she said. "He has gorgeous blue eyes, and I was like, `My God, your eyes are so beautiful."' Interest in infant mental health has been boosted by awareness of the prevalence of attention deficit disorders and autism, which government officials said in February affects 1 in 150 U.S. children and may be more common than previously thought. In April, researchers from the federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the Interdisciplinary Council on Developmental and Learning Disorders presented a report emphasizing earlier diagnosis and treatment. The report said that about 17 percent of U.S. children have a developmental disability such as autism, mental retardation and attention deficit-hyperactivity disorder, but that fewer than half are diagnosed before starting school. The authors say warning signs include failure to: -focus on sights and sounds by 2 months. -initiate joyful behavior with parents by 4 months. -exchange smiles and sounds with parents by 8 to 9 months. -take a parent's hand to find a toy and point to objects by 12 to 16 months. Last year, the American Academy of Pediatrics recommended that pediatricians routinely evaluate children for developmental problems such as autism starting in infancy, and begin testing at age 9 months. "Waiting until a young child misses a major milestone such as walking or talking may result in late rather than early recognition ... depriving the child and family of the benefits of early identification and intervention," the academy said. Some critics worry that the trend will trigger needless diagnoses in children with normal variations in behavior. Dr. Michael Fitzpatrick, a London physician, said that while early recognition and treatment of true disorders are important, "the extension of these categories to include 20 to 30 percent of all children reflects a social trend of pathologizing and medicalizing children's lives, which seems to reflect difficulties of parents and teachers in dealing with familiar problems of childhood development." Dr. Stanley Greenspan, a psychiatry professor at George Washington University who co-authored the CDC-Interdisciplinary group report, said the idea is not to slap a label on babies and give them medication. Greenspan said the goal is to raise awareness about early warning signs and to encourage treatment to increase the chances that children can develop normally. Research on identifying early clues and testing treatments is booming. For example: -Dr. Fred Volkmar at Yale University is studying potential ways to diagnose autism in the first months of life, including whether looking at objects rather than people is a sign. "I think we're on the verge of being able to do a much better job" of diagnosing autism in infancy, Volkmar said. -Researcher Stephen Porges at the University of Illinois at Chicago is starting a five-year study of whether excessive crying past 6 months of age might be an early sign of autism, attention deficit or other behavior problems. -Greenspan is launching a multimillion-dollar study involving parents and babies at risk for autism or attention deficit disorder. One group will receive intensive behavior training, the other will not; both will be compared through age 5. While rigorous scientific evidence is needed to prove that early intervention succeeds, Greenspan said his work with patients has shown promise. Jacob didn't say his first word, "more," until he was in treatment and almost 2 - about a year later than normal. He didn't say "mama" until he was 3. He gets 33 hours of weekly home treatment with trained college students, including six hours most days. The tab is $70,000 yearly, paid for by California, one of the few states that pay, through state and federal funds, for early intensive autism treatment. Jacob's sessions involve lots of repetition, and rewards, including praise and treats, for a job well done. For example, to improve eye contact, teachers bounce him on a favorite giant ball, then stop. If he turns to look at them, he gets praise, maybe a piece of candy, and more bouncing. To teach language, they use activities like swinging that get him excited enough to make sounds, then offer rewards for sounds like vowels or consonants rather than humming. Then they name objects, encourage mimicking, and offer more rewards. Now he knows the alphabet, understands commands like "Bring me the cow and the horse toy," and can say simple sentences like "I want juice," his mother said. "We definitely hope to mainstream him. We hope that he will have a job and have a life where he can take care of himself and be happy," Day said. "Everyone has given us reason to believe that's not an outlandish expectation." Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Family has questions after man is found dead Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Copper River salmon arrive in style Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/health/7495687.html	Plan would mandate HIV tests for pregnant women and newborns in N.J. | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Health Plan would mandate HIV tests for pregnant women and newborns in N.J. Story Published: May 14, 2007 at 9:09 AM PDT Story Updated: May 14, 2007 at 9:09 AM PDT TRENTON, N.J. (AP) - New Jersey would become the first state to require both pregnant women and newborns to be tested for HIV under a proposal introduced by the Senate president. The bill would require all pregnant women be tested for HIV twice, once early in the pregnancy and a second time in the third trimester. Every birthing facility in the state would have to test all newborns in their care. Senate President Richard J. Codey introduced the legislation on Thursday, which he described as a "no brainer." The Associated Press first reported on Codey's plan in March. "The key in the fight against HIV and AIDS is early detection and treatment," Codey said Friday. "For newborns this can be a lifesaving measure." Codey, D-Essex, said the bill stems from a Centers for Disease Control and Prevention report that found medical treatment during pregnancy can dramatically cut mother-to-child HIV transmission. The Center for Women Policy Studies, a Washington, D.C.-based feminist advocacy organization, opposes mandatory HIV testing, arguing it violates a woman's right to make their own childbearing and medical treatment decisions. Current New Jersey law requires providers only to offer HIV testing to pregnant women. Under Codey's proposal, the test would be given unless the mother chooses, in writing, not to have it. According to the Kaiser Foundation, a nonprofit research organization focusing on U.S. health care issues, four states - Arkansas, Michigan, Tennessee and Texas - require health care providers to test a mother for HIV, unless the mother specifically asks not to be tested. Connecticut and New York are the only states that test all newborns for HIV, according to the foundation. New Jersey has some of the highest rates in the nation for AIDS cases, women with AIDS and pediatric HIV and AIDS cases, according to the foundation. Codey's bill will be scheduled for hearings in the coming weeks. To become law, it must be approved by both the state Senate and Assembly, and then signed by the governor. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Family has questions after man is found dead Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Copper River salmon arrive in style Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/health/7499992.html	Blood pressure rising around the globe, not just in Western world | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Health Blood pressure rising around the globe, not just in Western world Story Published: May 14, 2007 at 1:49 PM PDT Story Updated: May 14, 2007 at 1:49 PM PDT WASHINGTON (AP) - The numbers are a shock: Almost 1 billion people worldwide have high blood pressure, and over half a billion more will harbor this silent killer by 2025. It's not just a problem for the ever-fattening Western world. Even in parts of Africa, high blood pressure is becoming common. That translates into millions of deaths from heart disease alone. Yet hypertension doesn't command the attention of, say, bird flu, which so far has killed fewer than 200 people. "Hypertension has gone a bit out of fashion," says Dr. Jan Ostergren of Sweden's Karolinska University Hospital, who co-authored a first-of-its-kind analysis of the global impact of high blood pressure. The idea: to rev up world governments to fight bad blood pressure just as countries have banded together in the past to fight infectious diseases. International heart specialists welcome the push. "Even in the U.S., the majority of people with high blood pressure are not treated adequately," says Dr. Sidney Smith of the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, who advises the World Heart Federation. "Look at China, look at Africa, go around the world. It is a major risk factor." And the dangers go well beyond the heart. High blood pressure is a leading cause of strokes and kidney failure. It also plays a role in blindness and even dementia. Patients seldom notice symptoms until organs already have been damaged. Yet treating high blood pressure before that happens is a medical best-buy. Improving diet and exercise can help. When that's not enough, blood pressure drugs are among the oldest and thus cheapest on the market - 21 cents a day for a leading diuretic. Ostergren joined experts from the London School of Economics and the State University of New York to assemble two teams of specialists and map what they call the coming crisis of hypertension: 1.56 billion people are expected to have it by 2025. With funding from drug maker Novartis Pharma AG, they're providing copies to governments and health officials around the globe; a briefing in Washington is set for Thursday. The report essentially calls for a cultural change. Consider: In the U.S., commiserating over blood pressure readings is an accepted dinner-table topic. Because black Americans are at especially high risk - roughly 40 percent are affected - hypertension has become a sermon topic at majority-black churches, and post-service screenings aren't uncommon. The government even advertises about the condition. That adds up to an openness about blood pressure not seen in much of the world, says report co-author Dr. Michael Weber of SUNY's Downstate College of Medicine. In some regions, "it's sort of an insult to your manhood if you have to take a blood-pressure medicine," Weber says, citing estimates that hypertension affects about one in three adults in Mexico, Paraguay and Venezuela. "We need to break those barriers as well and make it perfectly fashionable. We need to get role models in those countries to say, 'You know what? I've got high blood pressure."' The U.S. still needs to improve, too, Weber hastens to add. High blood pressure affects nearly one in three adult Americans as well, or 72 million people. About a third have their condition well-controlled, not nearly enough but better than other countries that track treatment, the report found. Normal blood pressure is measured at less than 120 over 80. Anyone can get high blood pressure, a level of 140 over 90 or more. But being overweight and inactive, and eating too much salt, all increase the risk. So does getting older. The world's population is aging and fattening, fueling a continued increase in blood pressure problems. Remarkably, the report cites worse hypertension rates in much of Western Europe than in the U.S., despite cultural similarities: 38 percent in England, Sweden and Italy; 45 percent in Spain; 55 percent in Germany. But the biggest jump is expected in developing countries and nations rapidly moving to more Western-style economies, the report warns. In parts of India, studies suggest one in three urban adults has high blood pressure, while it's still rare in rural areas with more traditional lifestyles. More than a quarter of adults in China have hypertension. So do one in four in Ghana and South Africa. Treatment is difficult, because patients often quit their medicine, not understanding it's necessary even when they feel good. Also, doctors may be reluctant to prescribe the two- or three-drug combinations that half of patients wind up needing. For poorer countries, the tab for even low-cost diuretics is an issue - not to mention public education about sticking to treatment, notes Smith, the World Heart Federation adviser, who was not involved in the new report. But fighting bad blood pressure could mean that developing countries avoid epidemics of full-blown heart disease, which they definitely can't afford, Smith stresses. World health and economic groups already are brainstorming strategies to help, such as whether industries that move into poor countries should be required to screen their workers for high blood pressure. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Family has questions after man is found dead Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Copper River salmon arrive in style Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/health/7513462.html	FDA: FluMist effective for kids under 5 | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Health FDA: FluMist effective for kids under 5 Story Published: May 15, 2007 at 9:20 AM PDT Story Updated: May 15, 2007 at 9:20 AM PDT WASHINGTON (AP) - Federal regulators say MedImmune's nasal spray flu vaccine is effective for children under age 5, even though it may increase the risk of respiratory problems. The vaccine, Flumist, was once thought to be a possible blockbuster drug, but has had modest sales because approved use is limited to healthy people between the age of 5 and 49 years old. MedImmune wants Food and Drug Administration approval to market the nasal spray vaccine to young children, which could provide a major revenue boost for the company since the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommends children between 6 months and six years old get an annual influenza virus vaccine. Flumist sales totaled $36.4 million last year, well behind MedImmune's top-selling respiratory virus drug Synagis, which posted sales of $1.1 billion. The FDA said in documents posted to its Web site Monday that the vaccine appears to prevent influenza in children as young as six months. However, reviewers also noted that children taking MedImmune's nasal spray vaccine were more likely to develop wheezing problems when compared to children treated with an injectable vaccine. According to one FDA-reviewed study, about 3 percent of children 6 months to 1 year old who took Flumist were hospitalized for respiratory problems compared to 1 percent of children that age who took the injected vaccine. Although the respiratory problems did not cause any deaths, FDA will ask a panel of outside experts Wednesday whether the side effects warrant limiting the vaccine's use in young children. FDA is not obligated to follow the panel's recommendation though it usually does. Earlier this year MedImmune won the FDA's OK to market a new version of Flumist, which was first approved in 2003, that can be stored in refrigerators instead of freezers. The company said the new formulation should expand the vaccine's use and will be available for the 2007-2008 flu season. Last month, Gaithersburg, Md.-based MedImmune agreed to be bought out by British drug maker AstraZeneca for $15.6 billion. The deal is expected to close in June. Shares of MedImmune Inc. rose 2 cents to close at $57.02 on the Nasdaq Stock Market. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Family has questions after man is found dead Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Copper River salmon arrive in style Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/health/7513407.html	Young boy receives new heart after getting rare implanted pump | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Health Young boy receives new heart after getting rare implanted pump In this April 19, 2007, photo, Adrian Saucedo plays with a toy in his bed at Arkansas Children's Hospital in Little Rock, Ark. Story Published: May 15, 2007 at 9:16 AM PDT Story Updated: May 15, 2007 at 9:16 AM PDT LITTLE ROCK (AP) - An 8-year-old boy from Mexico received a new heart Monday to replace his diseased one, after spending weeks in a Texas intensive care unit and getting a rare implanted heart pump in Arkansas. Adrian Saucedo went into surgery just after 3 a.m. for a procedure that lasted about seven hours, said Dr. Elizabeth Frazier, head of the cardiac transplantation program at Arkansas Children's Hospital. His new heart, flown into Little Rock by an accompanying physician, began beating after warming inside the boy's chest, requiring no electrical shock to come back to life, Frazier said. "It's always a miracle," Frazier told reporters at a news conference Monday afternoon. "Every time it happens, it's a miracle." Frazier said Adrian would remain on a ventilator for about a day, then would have the tube removed from his throat so he could speak. Within four to five days, the doctor said Adrian would be up and moving around, a vast improvement for a boy who only weeks earlier needed an experimental heart pump implanted in his chest for him to continue living. Adrian lives with his mother and father in Piedras Negras, Mexico, just across the border from Eagle Pass, Texas. He spent more than 60 days at Methodist Children's Hospital of South Texas, after doctors determined he suffered from cardiomyopathy - a condition caused in his case by a viral infection eating away at his heart tissue. While several hospitals rejected him as a transplant patient, residents of San Antonio, Texas, raised half a million dollars for the boy's treatment. Arkansas Children's Hospital in Little Rock admitted Adrian on April 19. But within days of his arrival, Adrian's condition worsened. Doctors implanted a Berlin heart, the only blood pump available for children at risk of heart failure - a rarity as the U.S. Food and Drug Administration only allows it in the most extreme circumstances. Frazier said the hospital received word Sunday a heart matching Adrian's blood type and weight was available. Frazier said privacy rules prohibited her from saying where the heart came from. However, she said Dr. Robert D.B. "Jake" Jaquiss, the hospital's chief of pediatric cardiothoracic surgery, flew on a jet to retrieve the heart and bring it back to Little Rock. The boy went into surgery with Dr. Michiaki Imamura and the hospital's heart team, even before the jet carrying the heart landed, she said. "Fortunately, the donor heart in this situation promptly started once it warmed up," Frazier said. "It seems to be functioning well within the parameters we look at, but the first 24 to 48 hours is critical. Once things stabilize and his medications are stabilized, then we would hope that he would make progress as far as getting off of the breathing machine." Currently, the boy and his family are in the United States on a humanitarian visa, and they plan to return home. Frazier said doctors at the hospital spoke with Mexican physicians about the care Adrian would need. While Adrian's hospital care likely will exceed the half a million dollars raised for him, Frazier said the hospital would handle the rest of the finances without offering specifics. An official from Little Rock's Mexican consulate also attended the news conference. Frazier said Adrian's chances at a full recovery were good - 75 percent of all children who have heart transplants survive with chances even better for those who suffer the disease Adrian had. But the boy could face infection from the operation or kidney damage from being on the bypass machine. "We're not out of the woods 'til we're out of the woods," Frazier said. "There's always that question in that once you transport a heart is it going to restart and how good is it going to feel about it. We've passed that hurdle." Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Family has questions after man is found dead Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Copper River salmon arrive in style Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/health/7513527.html	Professors say new protein can stop spread of certain cancers | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Health Professors say new protein can stop spread of certain cancers University of Oklahoma professors Tom Pento, right foreground, and Roger Harrison are photographed in a lab at Sarkeys Energy Center in Norman, Okla. Story Published: May 15, 2007 at 9:22 AM PDT Story Updated: May 15, 2007 at 9:22 AM PDT NORMAN, Okla. (AP) - Two professors at the University of Oklahoma say they've developed a protein that can stop the spread of certain cancer cells without damaging normal cells. Thomas Pento and Roger Harrison helped develop a fusion protein that keeps some types of cancer cells from ingesting a vital protein called methionine. The fusion protein doesn't affect normal cells because, unlike cancer cells, they can be healthy without that protein. Chemotherapy and radiation therapies kill normal cells along with cancer cells, which often cause sickness and hair loss. "Roger has created a mechanism that delivers these compounds specifically to the surface of cancer cells so normal cells won't be affected but only the cancer cells will be damaged," Pento said. "So you can see it would cause a lot less toxicity and it should really be a lot more effective." Pento is a Noble Foundation presidential professor of pharmacy at the OU Health Sciences Center; Harrison is an associate professor of chemical, biological and materials engineering on the Norman campus. They worked with other OU scientists, including Xiao-Ping Zang, Naveen Palwai, Megan Lerner and Dan Brackett, research director at the Health Sciences Center's surgery department. Pento said the research started with breast cancer and expanded to include other types of solid tumors. They found the fusion protein to be just as helpful in fighting lung, prostate and pancreatic cancers. "It could be applicable to many types of cancer," Pento said, "but we've found that it's effective for those four types of cancer for sure." Despite successful testing to this point, Harrison said the fusion protein will need another round of animal tests before moving on to years of human clinical testing. Three phases of clinical tests could take two years each. "So it could be in the order of 10 years," he said. "It sounds so far away, but realistically, given the FDA and all the phases of testing, it could be done rapidly." The two professors have applied for patents on their technology and plan to conduct animal testing themselves before launching their own company or licensing with a large pharmaceutical company to do it. "If you don't patent it and get that protection, then no pharmaceutical company is going to spend the half to three-quarter billion dollars that it takes to do the clinical testing and to get this drug on the market," Pento said. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Family has questions after man is found dead Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Copper River salmon arrive in style Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
