http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/fashion/10FOREVER.html?ex=1336449600&en=794fcef5a0a08a86&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Faster Fashion, Cheaper Chic - New York Times Faster Fashion, Cheaper Chic Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 Skip to next paragraph Natasha Calzatti for The New York Times Models at a Forever 21 store in Pasadena, Calif., display trends that appeal to both children and adults. Natasha Calzatti for The New York Times Whether in tidy stores in Southern California, above, or in the hectic setting of Manhattan, merchandise is plentiful. COLIBRI EVANS navigated the aisles of Forever 21 at the Beverly Center last week with a sure step and a shrewd eye. Her mother, Sasha Evans, was more circumspect, offering for Colibri’s approval a string of neo-hippie beads Joss Stone might have coveted. “It’s her job to say ‘Yes, No, Yes, No,’ ” Mrs. Evans said, nodding toward her daughter, a 29-year-old music producer. “She tells me what’s cool and what’s too young for me.” It was Mrs. Evans’s first visit to a store that at first glance seemed to cater exclusively to the sparkle gloss-and-cami set. All the same she was intent on finding “maybe a nice overshirt,” she said, “something summery that hides my questionable areas.” With Mother’s Day just over a week away, a trip to the cavernous fashion bazaar at the uppermost level of the mall promised to cement a bond. “For me it’s a way of our just being together, of spending some quality time with my mom,” Ms. Evans said. Bonding is only part of a larger emotional payoff for recreational shoppers like the Evanses, who throng the store, part of the rapidly expanding Forever 21 chain, giddy at the prospect of daily deliveries of fresh, trend-driven fashions at prices that undercut even those of its competitor H&M, across the corridor. By relentlessly chasing trends and catering to an ever-widening market — young women and matrons, men and toddlers — Forever 21 has positioned itself as a retail powerhouse, the American answer to fast fashion emporiums like the European-based Zara, Mexx and H&M. The privately held company has galloped ahead in recent years, doubling its number of stores to 400 since 2005. Retail analysts estimate sales have grown to more than $1 billion last year from about $640 million in 2005. “They are playing by a different set of rules,” said Howard Davidowitz, a New York retail consultant, partly by catering to entire families rather than focusing on teenagers, but also by rivaling competitors in scale. Forever 21 stores are typically 25,000 square feet, roughly five times that of many Anthropologie or Gap stores. Don and Jin Chang, the founders and owners of the chain, opened their first store on Figueroa Street in downtown Los Angeles in the mid-1980s. The small shop, aimed primarily at schoolgirls, proved successful enough that the Changs, who immigrated from South Korea, were able to add new stores on an average of every six months. By the early ’90s, Forever 21 was a significant mall presence. The purchase of Gadzooks, a Midwest clothing retailer, for about $33 million at auction two years ago placed the chain “in the land of the giants,” Mr. Davidowitz said. Last year the company opened its retail showpiece, a 40,000-square-foot store in Pasadena, Calif., offering women’s, men’s and children’s clothing, accessories and lingerie. Clearly the jewel in the family diadem, it is housed in a former Saks Fifth Avenue with silver candelabra posted at the door. The company also operates a Web site, and, as of this year, 17 free-standing For Love accessories stores. Mrs. Chang, who is in her 50s, cultivates an all-but-invisible profile. She declined to appear for a scheduled interview, dispatching Lisa Boisset, the company’s vice president for merchandise, to speak for her. Ms. Boisset discussed her boss, who appears in photographs as a trim woman with dark hair that swings well past her shoulders, with a born-again zeal. Her eyes appeared to well spontaneously as she talked about the Changs’ deep-rooted spirituality. The Changs’ Christian faith is telegraphed near the bottom of the stores’ trademark yellow shopping bags with the stamp, John 3:16, referring to a biblical passage. Ms. Boisset described the Changs as ever on the prowl for ideas and trends. While it takes a designer like several months to get clothes into stores after their debut on the runways, Forever 21 delivers interpretations of the same looks within six weeks. Among the stores’ hip offerings this month are a club-friendly white cotton corset trimmed in midnight blue lace ($19.80), a scarlet cotton swing jacket cropped well above the waist ($27.80), denim capri pants ($27.80) and a puff-sleeve hoodie sprinkled with tiny hearts ($17.80). The chain says it employs no designers, “just very savvy designer merchants,” Ms. Boisset said. Although these merchants’ skills are at the heart of Forever 21’s success in offering shoppers faithful adaptations of runway hits, the company declined to make them available for an interview. “Our design process is proprietary,” Ms. Boisset said. Next Article in Fashion & Style (1 of 12) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. FRONT ROW; No Hiding From Alice Roi CRITICAL SHOPPER; No Store Is a Hero to Its Valet ONLINE SHOPPER; A Narrow Window Into the Future If There's A Buck In It Somewhere Retail Stores and Trade Trademarks and Trade Names Economic Conditions and Trends Next Article in Fashion & Style (1 of 12) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/fashion/10clavicle.html	The Collarbone&#8217;s Connected to Slimness - New York Times The Collarbone’s Connected to Slimness Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 LET’S say a woman clocked a few hundred crunches a day, Stairmastered her bottom into a replica of J. Lo’s and avoided carbs so assiduously that the waiters at her regular restaurants knew not to bother with a breadbasket. If no one could see results of all of this exertion and deprivation, would it count? Skip to next paragraph Tony Cenicola/The New York Times The well-chiseled clavicle is in. And with that, styles showing deep necklines, like this Moschino dress, are highly coveted by women who brandish their collarbones as a sign of thinness. That is the conundrum posed by the spring’s most coveted fashion item, dresses that conceal as much as they reveal. At Bergdorf Goodman on a recent Saturday, waifish young women fingered trapeze dresses by designers like Diane Von Furstenberg and Vince. A cream-colored Moschino version stood on out from the body of a mannequin like a sphinx, the shoulders and upper chest peeking out of its oblong neck. “We did great with it,” a saleswoman said. As the rest of women’s bodies recede in spring fashions, the clavicles, or collarbones, and the upper chest between them, is rising to prominence. Toned shoppers who want to show off their self-discipline in the face of dessert are choosing dresses with a low, but not plunging neckline, a look that is transforming the area above the breasts into an unlikely new subject for women to obsess over. Some people think of it as an erogenous zone; others think it is noteworthy only as a barometer of whether a woman is at a healthy weight or has become too skinny. “I always want to show off my collarbone,” said Gabriella Morello, a Columbia sophomore who had just finished a class at the Equinox Fitness Club on the Upper East Side that included push-ups, chest presses, flys and other exercises for the upper chest. “I’ll buy clothes to show off that area. You don’t want just the scoop neck, you want the Chloé dress that crosses here,” she said, pointing to her clavicle. Why the new emphasis on a body part most women — and more men — have paid little attention to in the past? Credit a swing of the fashion pendulum, and a malaise over “Girls Gone Wild” style. Showing off your clavicle is “the opposite of showing your thong,” said Valerie Steele, director of the Museum at the Fashion Institute of Technology Another reason is that prominent clavicles can be a signifier of skinniness. Sharply outlined collarbones say “Don’t let this tent dress fool you: Underneath it all, this girl can fit into a sample size.” “The clothing threatens to make you look overweight and so you need a certain body to undo that threat,” said Virginia Blum, a professor of English at the , who has written extensively on women and beauty. “In that clothing, one has to find a way of revealing the authentically thin body.” , a consultant for Equinox, said that when people lose weight, the bones and muscles of the chest area often become more visible. It is also an area whose prominence is unlikely to be enhanced surgically (at least for now). This region has been emphasized by the skinny celebrity acolytes of the stylist Rachel Zoe, including Nicole Richie and Keira Knightley. Their ubiquitous deep V-neck tops show off sometimes skeletal frames, and other actresses have taken their cue and sized down as well, to the point that the Internet teems with fashion and celebrity bloggers and message board posters carping about protruding A-list clavicles. After the Oscars and the Golden Globes this year, bloggers took actresses like Anne Hathaway and Naomi Watts to task for their “scary” and even “knobby” clavicles. When Kate Bosworth recently put on a few pounds, heralded the occasion with the headline “Kate’s Clavicle Comes Full Circle.” Courtney E. Martin, the author of “Perfect Girls, Starving Daughters: The Frightening New Normalcy of Hating Your Body” (Free Press, 2007), said that many of the girls and women she interviewed for her book “talked about how far their collarbone stuck out” with pride, as an indicator of their skinniness. Ms. Martin contends that a generation of young women raised after Title IX and the women’s movement pursue slender figures with the same rigor as they pursue admission to an When Jessica Braff, who works at an advertising agency in New York, lost 15 pounds in her freshmen year of college, the first thing she noticed was that her clavicles were more pronounced. “I loved it,” she said. She continues to wear clothes that show off her collarbones, which she calls the “easiest and least controversial expression of a kind of sex appeal.” Just a few years ago the clavicle and the region around it was considered a kind of anti-erogenous zone. One designer who has long emphasized the region is Consuelo Castiglioni, whose label, Marni, incorporates chest-baring necklines into tops and dresses. The brand has long been a favorite of women seeking clothing that isn’t expressly made to attract men, including skirts with bustles and tops that flare out to obscure any semblance of a waist. “I think it is clear from my designs that deep cleavages, tight silhouettes, visible tummies or behinds are not part of my aesthetic,” Ms. Castiglioni said in an e-mail message. “What I try to express is elegance and femininity and a more cerebral, hidden sensuality.” Perfect, then, for women who don’t want to look like they are trying to be sexy. Or like they are trying at all. In fact, this most passive-aggressive of body parts — it’s a lot harder to get a protruding clavicle than it looks — is the perfect focus for a generation that, according to a 2003 Duke University study, wants to appear “effortlessly perfect.” Women’s interest in protruding clavicles is reminiscent of their attempts to achieve the Linda Hamilton arms of the early ’90s — a signal to one another that they are superwomen. Which is why a backlash against the exposed and protruding clavicle is already in effect. The blogger diaryofamadfashionista has written about “the disturbing rise of the clavicle,” adding, “We women of Rubenesque dimensions must band together and DEMAND that fashion take note of bosoms, buttocks, legs, plump dimpled elbows, and all of those other beautiful touches that make a female, well, female.” Perhaps some men would agree. Suzanne Calo, an elementary school teacher in Hicksville, N.Y., is proud of her “bony clavicles,” especially now that she is pregnant and every other part of her body seems to have become bigger. “That’s my favorite area,” she said. Her husband, Anthony Calo, on the other hand, is ambivalent. “Honey, have you ever said anything about my clavicles?” she called out while on the phone. “You know, my collarbones?” There was a pause. “He shrugged,” she said. Next Article in Fashion & Style (5 of 12) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Vogue Plays Fairy Godmother FRONT ROW; No Hiding From Alice Roi PULSE; The Polished Traveler FASHION; Recycling Along the Red Carpet: Did Somebody Say Knockoff? Next Article in Fashion & Style (5 of 12) &#x00bb; A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/fashion/10skin.html	All-in-Ones: Bring on the Tiny Purse - New York Times All-in-Ones: Bring on the Tiny Purse Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 NO strangers are we to multitasking; it was only a matter of time before we demanded our makeup do the same. These days, sticks, pencils and compacts can perform multiple beauty duty without dominating the purse — or the wallet. Skip to next paragraph Jamel Toppin for The New York Times Smashbox, Benefit and Stila (compact) all sell makeup that can be used on eyes, cheeks and lips. Skin Deep: Whose Face Is It, Really? Skin Deep: Blogging for Truth and Beauty For a while the two-in-ones made some noise: Vincent Longo, Stila, Lorac and Smashbox offered liquid stainers or creamers for both lips and cheeks. While the stainer gave cheeks a flushed glow, it added just-bitten color to lips. But that wasn’t enough. Enter three-in-one makeup, wands and sticks made to be worn on lips, cheeks, eyes and even the shoulders and neck. “Movable color is having a popular moment because of new technology and modern formulations,” said Jeanine Recckio, of Mirror Mirror Imagination Group, which forecasts beauty trends. “The colors and consistency is more forgiving than heavy makeups of the past.” Nars was one of the first, in 1997 introducing the Multiple, which it billed as “the original all-in-one, cream-to-powder, multipurpose makeup stick.” The stick can be used to highlight, sculpt and warm eyes, cheeks and lips. At $36.50 and with 12 shades, when is the last time a product tried to accomplish so much? In the last few months three new products arrived: Rush Hour ($20), by Benefit, a slim, oil-free stick, promises an “instant makeover” for eyes, lips and cheeks; 3-of-a-Kind Twist-Up Stick ($3.59), by Wet n Wild; and e.l.f. All Over Cover Stick ($1), which at two inches tall, is also a space saver. Multitaskers appear to be selling. More than 100,000 wands of Rush Hour have been sold since mid-January, exceeding Benefit’s expectations, according to Benefit’s founders. The Multiple is consistently one of Nars’s best-selling products, said Kimberley Thomas, Nars’s vice president for North America sales. “Women want to simplify the makeup application process,” said Trish McEvoy, whose Essential Pencil ($20), advertised as a lipstick, blusher and overall highlighter, is also a top seller. Certainly, the two- and three-fer products are cost-effective. A shadow ($21), blush ($25) and lipstick ($23) from Nars can easily cost more than $65. And customers seem to find them convenient and time-saving. “It’s about practicality,” said Rebecca McGuire, 32, a branding consultant whose career often requires her to attend events at the last minute. “I need something that’s compact but works everywhere.” She said she prefers Nars Multiple St. Barts shade: “I love that I’ve found one product that makes me look pretty and presentable without feeling as if I’m covered in makeup.” Yet it’s difficult enough to find one color you love for one facial area, let alone one that works in multiple spots. And, said James Boehmer, Nars’s international lead makeup stylist: “With one color you take the chance of looking monochromatic and flat. It’s not the most exciting thing you can do with your makeup.” But a good color — Mr. Boehmer prefers Multiple’s Portofino — that is used well “can give a luminescent finish” to lips, cheeks and eyes, he said. “That’s a lot of get from one stick.” Next Article in Fashion & Style (6 of 12) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. SKIN DEEP; Beware the Afterglow Shades of Truth: An Account Of a Kabul School Is Challenged SKIN DEEP; New Hope at the Beauty Counter: Bling in a Jar THE REMIX; The JetÃ© Set Next Article in Fashion & Style (6 of 12) &#x00bb; A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/fashion/10BLOW.html?ex=1336449600&en=5467f5e141712e18&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	The Woman No Hat Could Tame - New York Times The Woman No Hat Could Tame Bill Cunningham/The New York Times Isabella Blow stopped traffic with her outrageous getups. She was a friend to many in the fashion world, including the milliner Philip Treacy, right, and Hedi Slimane, at left. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 ISABELLA BLOW, the English eccentric and sorcerer of talent who died this week, was a completely implausible figure. You could not explain her and you could not reason with her. She was incredibly bright on the subject of fashion and rarefied tastes, a fact she wore on her sleeve and on her head. She loved a bustle, a corseted waist and a spectacular hat. And not for her the mushy-pea variety, the Ascot bonnet. Skip to next paragraph Isabella Blow, Flamboyant Discoverer of Fashion Talent, Dies at 48 Bill Cunningham/The New York Times Her party headgear included an octopus hat, with a lobster necklace. A horned creation for a do at Madame Tussaud&#146;s in London. Bill Cunningham/The New York Times Her hats were the big-game kind, trophies of her wit and imagination: a veiled set of antlers, a jewel-encrusted lobster, a sailing ship, a pheasant. Her more exotic choices of headgear could be attributed to an aesthetic link with her paternal grandmother, Lady Vera Delves Broughton, an explorer and hunter, who claimed to have supped on a tribesman in Papua New Guinea. “She wasn’t strictly a cannibal,” her granddaughter pointed out. But try to remind Izzy, as she was called, during one of her periodic financial crises that even aristocratic eccentrics had to occasionally go out and earn a living, and she would laugh her deep honking laugh and say, “Oh, honey...” Although Izzy worked regularly as a fashion editor, at different times for British Vogue, The Sunday Times and Tatler, and intermittently as a consultant to companies like Swarovski, she had, in a sense, no clear role. And that was a problem for her. “Nobody knew how to quantify her talent,” said her friend Daphne Guinness, whose great-grandfather knew Ms. Blow’s grandmother. She was definitely the catalyst to the designer Alexander McQueen and the milliner Philip Treacy, her all-consuming belief in their talent that of a patron. Though, as Ms. Guinness said: “She could ill afford to be that. People took it for granted that because she came from a certain type of background she had money. She didn’t have that kind of support, though she could spend her last penny helping someone.” Michael Roberts, the fashion director of Vanity Fair, took on Ms. Blow as his assistant at Tatler in the mid-1980s and remained close to her until the last months of her life. Recalling her discovery of Mr. McQueen, in the early ’90s, Mr. Roberts said: “She rang me up and said, ‘You’ve got to see this guy’s clothing.’ Then she dragged me off to a basement in Piccadilly, a smelly basement. But she was absolutely right.” In both appearance and expectations she belonged very much, one felt, to a different time. “She was the most interesting person I ever met,” Mr. Treacy said this week in The Guardian. Though English newspapers and magazines typically have small budgets, Ms. Blow invariably stayed at the most expensive hotels. “She went over budget because she didn’t have any conception of budget,” said Jonathan Newhouse, who oversees the Condé Nast magazines in Europe and Asia. As Ms. Guinness said, “She had that kind of extravagant, ’30s idea of money.” She traveled with numerous pieces of luggage, including hatboxes. Recalling a trip they made together to Kuwait for a photo shoot, Ms. Guinness said: “We were in Terminal 4 at Heathrow. I’m not someone who fades into the background, either, but Izzy looked like a highwayman.” She had on a cape and tricorn. Although Ms. Blow was an exceptionally cultivated woman, at ease with a baroness or a shopgirl, she advanced toward things with a kind of willful cluelessness. In Kuwait, oblivious of Islamic laws, she put models in bikinis. “Suddenly people came out of nowhere with guns at us,” Ms. Guinness said. “She was so nonplussed.” For a cameo appearance in Wes Anderson’s “Life Aquatic With Steve Zissou,” she fretted, according to her friend Ronnie Newhouse, that she would be nervous and asked one of the actors if he had ever “done this kind of thing before.” It was Bill Murray. But it was difficult for Ms. Blow to find a home in a world she influenced. She was upset that Mr. McQueen didn’t take her along when he sold his brand to Gucci, though they remained good friends. “She functioned outside the corporate world,” Ms. Guinness said. “Once the deals started happening, she fell by the wayside. Everybody else got contracts, and she got a free dress.” It may be that she didn’t know how to ask for a position, Ms. Guinness said. “But getting that kind of acknowledgment would have given her esteem. She poured all of that esteem into other people, but had none of her own.” In the last year, Ms. Blow suffered from serious depression, attempting suicide at least twice, according to her friends. Last May she jumped from a highway overpass, breaking both legs. She remained, in a sense, valiantly Izzy, pointing out to her friends that she had been dressed to the nines, and in her hospital room smoking inside a cupboard, “as if somebody wouldn’t notice it,” Ms. Guinness said. While the Newhouses took care of many of her medical bills, and her friends did what they could do to help her, she became more and more remote, convinced that she would end up as a bag lady. Nothing could make her see the beauty in things the way she once had, turning the fashion world on its ear. Next Article in Fashion & Style (4 of 12) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Isabella Blow, Flamboyant Discoverer of Fashion Talent, Dies at 48 Mad As A Hatter's Muse Review/Fashion; This is Paris. No Giggling, Please. Next Article in Fashion & Style (4 of 12) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/fashion/10MOSS.html	It&#8217;s Her World, We&#8217;re Just Buying It - New York Times It’s Her World, We’re Just Buying It Librado Romero/The New York Times Shoppers flocked to Barneys on Wednesday for the American introduction of Kate Moss&#146;s clothing line. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 KATE MOSS pondered the question for a moment. Her shoulders heaved forward to hold up a wisp of fabric in a print of white barbed wire that could qualify as a dress only on her. She gestured beyond the colossal security guards in three-piece suits, the scruffy entourage, the D.J. girls with the cropped platinum hair wearing her little dresses, the waiters clearing the detritus of broken Champagne glasses left in their wake and the sea of gawking news-media types whirling in the background with notepads in hand. Then she said what she wanted: Skip to next paragraph Kate Moss at a party on Monday. “The world of Kate.” Ms. Moss touched the shoulder of Sir Philip Green, the British retail king who introduced the first collection of Kate Moss frocks at his Topshop chain in London last week and escorted her on Tuesday night to the seventh floor of Barneys New York for its American release. You’d have thought by the turnout that Queen Elizabeth had popped in for a white sale. “I never told you that, did I?” Ms. Moss said, clearly to the delight of Sir Philip. “The world of Kate!” The British press has not been entirely kind to Ms. Moss during her 19-year career. Setting aside for a moment the September 2005 news-media storm over images published in The Daily Mirror that indicated she had used cocaine, Ms. Moss’s debut as a designer was clobbered by the London papers. A sample headline from The Daily Mail last Wednesday: “Hysteria and the Great Kate Moss Con.” But her fast transformation from working-class model to burgeoning brand name may be the most telling example of the current power of notoriety to sell clothes. Even Ms. Moss, who has cultivated an unparalleled mystique as a model who rarely reveals what is happening behind her beautiful facade, was visibly overwhelmed by the turnout of more than 1,000 customers for the Topshop introduction in London. “I was a nervous wreck,” she said at Barneys. “I’ve always had a lot of attention to the way I dress. I don’t take that as a personal thing, like, ‘Oooh, they like me.’ They want a dress. Girls like clothes.” Yesterday morning, surprisingly, there were fewer than 100 women waiting outside the Barneys store on Madison Avenue when it opened at 10 a.m. At the front of the line, sisters Brittney and Danielle Hershkowitz, 18 and 16 respectively, had been there for four hours. “I think anything she wears, people want,” said Brittney Hershkowitz, standing before a window display that included a tiered black chiffon dress like the one Ms. Moss wore to the gala on Monday ($575). “She is very desirable, even after her drug scandal. I just don’t understand that. She’s supposed to be a role model for young children, so I’m shocked that so many people still stand behind her.” Still, Ms. Hershkowitz said she loved the model’s style and was intrigued by the paradox of her increasing success in the wake of the scandal. “Personally, I forgave her,” she said, “but I thought I was the exception.” So did many other women at Barneys, scooping up $20 henley tanks and floral chiffon baby-doll tops for $120. “That’s her own problem,” said Jane Ko, 31, a jewelry designer in Manhattan. “It’s more about her style for me. She has a magic touch. No matter what she wears, it’s fabulous.” Ms. Moss’s problems may have humanized her in the minds of a public insatiable for celebrity gossip and yet sympathetic to the scrutiny under which celebrities must live. In Ms. Moss’s case, rising above the controversy has become part of her appeal, or perhaps an element of the brand. When Simon Doonan, the Barneys creative director, created an unintended stir by playfully describing Ms. Moss’s democratic appeal in The New York Post as “a working-class slag from a crap town, like me,” a British T-shirt company was selling “working-class slag” T-shirts for £14 (about $28) at PEOPLE want a piece of anything that has Kate Moss’s name on it,” said Mickey Boardman, a columnist for Paper magazine, who was at the Barneys event, having his picture taken against a wall covered with cardboard cut-out images of Ms. Moss’s face. “She really is a rock star. She makes me want to take drugs and smoke, and I hate smoking. She just looks glamorous all the time.” Later that night at the Waverly Inn, Ms. Moss gave a hint that she is well aware of the power of her image. As she swept past the table of a mischievous diner who had been to her party, he held up one of the Kate Moss masks to his face. “Oh no!” she screamed, leaning in to reference a film that questions the power of identity and fame. “Being John Malkovich! Being John Malkovich!” Next Article in Fashion & Style (2 of 12) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Is There A Place for Olivier Theyskens? Trademarks and Trade Names Next Article in Fashion & Style (2 of 12) &#x00bb; A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/fashion/10clavicle.html?ex=1336449600&en=2b309cad1fcd8ac8&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	The Collarbone&#8217;s Connected to Slimness - New York Times The Collarbone’s Connected to Slimness Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 LET’S say a woman clocked a few hundred crunches a day, Stairmastered her bottom into a replica of J. Lo’s and avoided carbs so assiduously that the waiters at her regular restaurants knew not to bother with a breadbasket. If no one could see results of all of this exertion and deprivation, would it count? Skip to next paragraph Tony Cenicola/The New York Times The well-chiseled clavicle is in. And with that, styles showing deep necklines, like this Moschino dress, are highly coveted by women who brandish their collarbones as a sign of thinness. That is the conundrum posed by the spring’s most coveted fashion item, dresses that conceal as much as they reveal. At Bergdorf Goodman on a recent Saturday, waifish young women fingered trapeze dresses by designers like Diane Von Furstenberg and Vince. A cream-colored Moschino version stood on out from the body of a mannequin like a sphinx, the shoulders and upper chest peeking out of its oblong neck. “We did great with it,” a saleswoman said. As the rest of women’s bodies recede in spring fashions, the clavicles, or collarbones, and the upper chest between them, is rising to prominence. Toned shoppers who want to show off their self-discipline in the face of dessert are choosing dresses with a low, but not plunging neckline, a look that is transforming the area above the breasts into an unlikely new subject for women to obsess over. Some people think of it as an erogenous zone; others think it is noteworthy only as a barometer of whether a woman is at a healthy weight or has become too skinny. “I always want to show off my collarbone,” said Gabriella Morello, a Columbia sophomore who had just finished a class at the Equinox Fitness Club on the Upper East Side that included push-ups, chest presses, flys and other exercises for the upper chest. “I’ll buy clothes to show off that area. You don’t want just the scoop neck, you want the Chloé dress that crosses here,” she said, pointing to her clavicle. Why the new emphasis on a body part most women — and more men — have paid little attention to in the past? Credit a swing of the fashion pendulum, and a malaise over “Girls Gone Wild” style. Showing off your clavicle is “the opposite of showing your thong,” said Valerie Steele, director of the Museum at the Fashion Institute of Technology Another reason is that prominent clavicles can be a signifier of skinniness. Sharply outlined collarbones say “Don’t let this tent dress fool you: Underneath it all, this girl can fit into a sample size.” “The clothing threatens to make you look overweight and so you need a certain body to undo that threat,” said Virginia Blum, a professor of English at the , who has written extensively on women and beauty. “In that clothing, one has to find a way of revealing the authentically thin body.” , a consultant for Equinox, said that when people lose weight, the bones and muscles of the chest area often become more visible. It is also an area whose prominence is unlikely to be enhanced surgically (at least for now). This region has been emphasized by the skinny celebrity acolytes of the stylist Rachel Zoe, including Nicole Richie and Keira Knightley. Their ubiquitous deep V-neck tops show off sometimes skeletal frames, and other actresses have taken their cue and sized down as well, to the point that the Internet teems with fashion and celebrity bloggers and message board posters carping about protruding A-list clavicles. After the Oscars and the Golden Globes this year, bloggers took actresses like Anne Hathaway and Naomi Watts to task for their “scary” and even “knobby” clavicles. When Kate Bosworth recently put on a few pounds, heralded the occasion with the headline “Kate’s Clavicle Comes Full Circle.” Courtney E. Martin, the author of “Perfect Girls, Starving Daughters: The Frightening New Normalcy of Hating Your Body” (Free Press, 2007), said that many of the girls and women she interviewed for her book “talked about how far their collarbone stuck out” with pride, as an indicator of their skinniness. Ms. Martin contends that a generation of young women raised after Title IX and the women’s movement pursue slender figures with the same rigor as they pursue admission to an When Jessica Braff, who works at an advertising agency in New York, lost 15 pounds in her freshmen year of college, the first thing she noticed was that her clavicles were more pronounced. “I loved it,” she said. She continues to wear clothes that show off her collarbones, which she calls the “easiest and least controversial expression of a kind of sex appeal.” Just a few years ago the clavicle and the region around it was considered a kind of anti-erogenous zone. One designer who has long emphasized the region is Consuelo Castiglioni, whose label, Marni, incorporates chest-baring necklines into tops and dresses. The brand has long been a favorite of women seeking clothing that isn’t expressly made to attract men, including skirts with bustles and tops that flare out to obscure any semblance of a waist. “I think it is clear from my designs that deep cleavages, tight silhouettes, visible tummies or behinds are not part of my aesthetic,” Ms. Castiglioni said in an e-mail message. “What I try to express is elegance and femininity and a more cerebral, hidden sensuality.” Perfect, then, for women who don’t want to look like they are trying to be sexy. Or like they are trying at all. In fact, this most passive-aggressive of body parts — it’s a lot harder to get a protruding clavicle than it looks — is the perfect focus for a generation that, according to a 2003 Duke University study, wants to appear “effortlessly perfect.” Women’s interest in protruding clavicles is reminiscent of their attempts to achieve the Linda Hamilton arms of the early ’90s — a signal to one another that they are superwomen. Which is why a backlash against the exposed and protruding clavicle is already in effect. The blogger diaryofamadfashionista has written about “the disturbing rise of the clavicle,” adding, “We women of Rubenesque dimensions must band together and DEMAND that fashion take note of bosoms, buttocks, legs, plump dimpled elbows, and all of those other beautiful touches that make a female, well, female.” Perhaps some men would agree. Suzanne Calo, an elementary school teacher in Hicksville, N.Y., is proud of her “bony clavicles,” especially now that she is pregnant and every other part of her body seems to have become bigger. “That’s my favorite area,” she said. Her husband, Anthony Calo, on the other hand, is ambivalent. “Honey, have you ever said anything about my clavicles?” she called out while on the phone. “You know, my collarbones?” There was a pause. “He shrugged,” she said. Next Article in Fashion & Style (5 of 12) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Vogue Plays Fairy Godmother FRONT ROW; No Hiding From Alice Roi PULSE; The Polished Traveler FASHION; Recycling Along the Red Carpet: Did Somebody Say Knockoff? Next Article in Fashion & Style (5 of 12) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/fashion/10granny.html?ex=1336449600&en=6f9d640b4f754f2c&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny - New York Times The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Photographs by Michael Stravato for The New York times Angela Kim&#146;s baby-sitting routine: On Tuesdays her husband, Augustine, drops her off at a Houston airport. She&#146;s met at the curb in Dallas by her daughter, Andrea, and her son, Noah, 2. Then it&#146;s off to the hospital where Andrea works, where Mrs. Kim takes the wheel. She heads for Noah&#146;s preschool and after that, home for a nap. On Wednesday nights she makes the reverse commute. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 ANGELA KIM spends two days a week baby-sitting for her 2-year-old grandson, Noah, while her daughter, Andrea, a doctor, works nine-hour hospital shifts. Only Mrs. Kim, 57, lives in Houston and her daughter and grandson live in Dallas — 250 miles away. This long-distance child care arrangement means that on Tuesdays Mrs. Kim wakes at 4:45 a.m. to catch a 6:30 a.m. Southwest Airlines flight to Dallas Love Airport, where her daughter and Noah pick her up at the curb. At the hospital, her daughter hops out of the car to make her 8 a.m. shift and Mrs. Kim slips into the driver’s seat. Then she and Noah drive to his preschool, and after that, home, where Mrs. Kim fills her grandson’s next two days with brown rice, seaweed and Konglish, a mix of Korean and English. On Wednesday night, Mrs. Kim does the trip in reverse, catching a 7:30 p.m. flight to the Houston airport, where her husband picks her up. Terri P. Tepper of Barrington, Ill., made a similar trek every week for a year to help care for her granddaughter so that her daughter could pursue her career. Beginning in 2001, Ms. Tepper flew to New York on Sundays and returned to Chicago on Thursdays. “It was cheaper than getting a nanny,” said Ms. Tepper, 64. The round-trip tickets, which her daughter paid for, cost between $190 and $230. “I actually saved them a lot of money,” Ms. Tepper said. Her daughter later made partner in her consulting firm. Even at a time when grandparents are more involved than ever in the lives of their children and grandchildren, the efforts of Mrs. Kim and Ms. Tepper are extraordinary. But many grandparents these days are making extreme efforts to help their children bridge the work-life divide. “To me, grandparents are like the family National Guard,” said Andrew J. Cherlin, a sociologist at who studies intergenerational issues. “They are ready to step in when there is a need, and as soon as that need is met, they are ready to leave active duty.” “In low-income families,” he continued, “it may be the grandmother down the street who helps out. In high-income families, it is the grandmother in a neighboring city who helps out.” Intercity commuting is just one way they provide that help. Grandparents are also taking time off from work, retiring early, moving to the United States from overseas or selling their home to be near grandchildren. The greater involvement results from a confluence of factors, including the financial burdens of child care and anxiety over the quality of care. But most notably it is influenced by a generation of grandparents who have the time and the financial wherewithal to pitch in. “This is the first generation where we have so many older people living long enough, being healthy enough and being affluent enough to provide these services on a large scale” since women entered the workplace in large numbers, Dr. Cherlin said. But the involvement cuts across the economic spectrum. According to the census, 19.4 percent of preschool children with working mothers were primarily entrusted to grandparents in 2002, the latest year for which there are statistics. Grandparents took charge more often than fathers (18.2 percent), day care (19 percent) or hired help (9 percent). In 1995, grandparents ranked third behind fathers and day care centers, at 15.9 percent. There are no figures on how many grandparents go to extremes, because they can afford to, to care for their children’s children. “We call them grandboomers,” said Amy Goyer, national coordinator for the Foundation Grandparent Information Center, which has noticed heightened interest in information and services for grandparents. “They have more disposable income. They may have planned better for retirement.” For example, Judy Chen of Seattle could afford to take a year off as a hospital researcher to move to the Bay Area to baby-sit to help her daughter, a corporate lawyer. Her career was better able to absorb the timeout, she said: She was close to retirement, but her daughter was on a fairly strict career track in her firm. “Compared with her job, I have to sacrifice a little bit,” Mrs. Chen said. Besides, she said, echoing a sentiment expressed in similar terms by other Asian and Latino grandparents interviewed, “I am a Chinese mother.” Stepping in — even moving in — is customary in cultures that stress intergenerational familial obligations. In Mrs. Chen’s case, her sense of obligation to her daughter trumps that to her husband, who was left home alone for a year. “He is lonely, but he has a job,” Mrs. Chen said. Mrs. Chen’s daughter and son-in-law were reluctant to hire a nanny, feeling uncomfortable with strangers raising their son. They said they also worry about day care, expressing a widely shared parental anxiety that was only heightened by a National Institutes of Health study published this year that found some evidence of increased behavior problems among sixth graders the more time they had spent in professional day care. Were it not for the help of her mother and mother-in-law, Andrea Kim said, she would have quit her residency rather than put Noah in day care two years ago. “I couldn’t bring myself to do it,” said Andrea Kim, who had already invested nine years in college, medical school and a residency at that point. “I had a lot of guilt.” And so she proposed the flying granny nanny scenario to her mother. “It was a joke when I first mentioned it, then it turned into a plea,” Andrea Kim said. Some weeks, her mother or her father, Augustine, 61, fly to Dallas, scoop Noah up at the airport curbside pickup and take him to Houston on the next flight. “It’s crazy, isn’t it?” said Mrs. Kim, the grandmother. “Somehow it works out.” Next Article in Fashion & Style (3 of 12) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Get Back to Work SHORTCUTS; Too Busy to Notice You're Too Busy Study Finds Rise in Behavior Problems After Significant Time in Day Care Teaching Movie Moguls to Wipe Drool Families and Family Life Next Article in Fashion & Style (3 of 12) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/pages/fashion/index.html?partner=rssnyt	Fashion & Style - New York Times Natasha Calzatti for The New York Times Models at a Forever 21 store in Pasadena, Calif., display trends that appeal to both children and adults. Faster Fashion, Cheaper Chic By RUTH LA FERLA Trends are served fresh daily at Forever 21, the clothing retailer growing like a weed near you. It’s Her World, We’re Just Buying It Kate Moss released her collection at Barney’s last week, exemplifying the current power of notoriety to sell clothes. The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny By JENNIFER 8. LEE Some affluent retirees don’t mind dropping in by air to baby-sit. The Woman No Hat Could Tame In a world of bold fashion, Isabella Blow spoke the loudest. Obituary: Isabella Blow, Flamboyant Discoverer of Fashion Talent, Dies at 48 The Collarbone’s Connected to Slimness This season’s hot accessory: a prominent clavicle. All-in-Ones: Bring on the Tiny Purse These days, sticks, pencils and compacts can perform multiple beauty duty without dominating the purse — or the wallet. More Skin Deep Articles: Blogging for Truth and Beauty Whose Face Is It, Really? Charlotte Moss, an interiors concept store arranged over four stories of an Upper East Side town house, is staged to resemble the designer’s own home. Take Me to Your Designer Philippe Starck, the French designer who is consulting as art director for Richard Branson’s development of Virgin Galactic spacecraft, is now designing pared-down spacesuits. The Yoga Therapist Will See You Now Are one-on-one yoga classes effective physical therapy? A New Attitude for the Hip The fanny pack: it’s not just for Michelin guides. Slide Show: The New Fanny Pack No Nook Unbuttered, No Slice Unturned Finding a hearty English muffin (for a fuss-free breakfast). Correction: Up, Up and ... Never Mind It's all about extreme grilling, good-humored ice-cream, bachelor pads, the must-haves and more. Plus, go behind the scenes in the Go to T: Style Magazine » Supporting the King of Fashion Photos from the Metropolitan Museum of Art Costume Institute Benefit Gala "Poiret: The King Of Fashion." Images from "Poiret: King of Fashion" at the Metropolitan Museum's Costume Institute. Gear Test With Nancy Hobbs, Trail Racer By SARAH BOWEN SHEA Purists don’t dare race in trail running shoes. Enter trail racing shoes with stickier, firmer soles and less weight than everyday trail running shoes. Art Review | 'Poiret: King of Fashion' What to Wear to a Revolution The Metropolitan Museum of Art’s sumptuous survey of the designs of the French couturier Paul Poiret will transform your understanding of the origin of modern fashion. Cathy Horyn goes backstage at shows and design houses, and inside the minds of designers. MOST POPULAR - STYLE The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? Faster Fashion, Cheaper Chic In the Garden: It Takes a Hammer to Grow This Salad A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Critic’s Notebook: In Los Angeles, the Accidental Pizza Maker Fitness: The Yoga Therapist Will See You Now Tribute: The Woman No Hat Could Tame Fitness: A Healthy Mix of Rest and Motion Go to Complete List » You Do the Math Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer NYT Ortelius Maps Edition -- America Buy, sell or research a car. Buy, sell or rent a home. What’s new in technology? Tell us your nursing story. Inspiration & lessons. Photos, fine art, books and more. The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/fashion/10FOREVER.html	Faster Fashion, Cheaper Chic - New York Times Faster Fashion, Cheaper Chic Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 Skip to next paragraph Natasha Calzatti for The New York Times Models at a Forever 21 store in Pasadena, Calif., display trends that appeal to both children and adults. Natasha Calzatti for The New York Times Whether in tidy stores in Southern California, above, or in the hectic setting of Manhattan, merchandise is plentiful. COLIBRI EVANS navigated the aisles of Forever 21 at the Beverly Center last week with a sure step and a shrewd eye. Her mother, Sasha Evans, was more circumspect, offering for Colibri’s approval a string of neo-hippie beads Joss Stone might have coveted. “It’s her job to say ‘Yes, No, Yes, No,’ ” Mrs. Evans said, nodding toward her daughter, a 29-year-old music producer. “She tells me what’s cool and what’s too young for me.” It was Mrs. Evans’s first visit to a store that at first glance seemed to cater exclusively to the sparkle gloss-and-cami set. All the same she was intent on finding “maybe a nice overshirt,” she said, “something summery that hides my questionable areas.” With Mother’s Day just over a week away, a trip to the cavernous fashion bazaar at the uppermost level of the mall promised to cement a bond. “For me it’s a way of our just being together, of spending some quality time with my mom,” Ms. Evans said. Bonding is only part of a larger emotional payoff for recreational shoppers like the Evanses, who throng the store, part of the rapidly expanding Forever 21 chain, giddy at the prospect of daily deliveries of fresh, trend-driven fashions at prices that undercut even those of its competitor H&M, across the corridor. By relentlessly chasing trends and catering to an ever-widening market — young women and matrons, men and toddlers — Forever 21 has positioned itself as a retail powerhouse, the American answer to fast fashion emporiums like the European-based Zara, Mexx and H&M. The privately held company has galloped ahead in recent years, doubling its number of stores to 400 since 2005. Retail analysts estimate sales have grown to more than $1 billion last year from about $640 million in 2005. “They are playing by a different set of rules,” said Howard Davidowitz, a New York retail consultant, partly by catering to entire families rather than focusing on teenagers, but also by rivaling competitors in scale. Forever 21 stores are typically 25,000 square feet, roughly five times that of many Anthropologie or Gap stores. Don and Jin Chang, the founders and owners of the chain, opened their first store on Figueroa Street in downtown Los Angeles in the mid-1980s. The small shop, aimed primarily at schoolgirls, proved successful enough that the Changs, who immigrated from South Korea, were able to add new stores on an average of every six months. By the early ’90s, Forever 21 was a significant mall presence. The purchase of Gadzooks, a Midwest clothing retailer, for about $33 million at auction two years ago placed the chain “in the land of the giants,” Mr. Davidowitz said. Last year the company opened its retail showpiece, a 40,000-square-foot store in Pasadena, Calif., offering women’s, men’s and children’s clothing, accessories and lingerie. Clearly the jewel in the family diadem, it is housed in a former Saks Fifth Avenue with silver candelabra posted at the door. The company also operates a Web site, and, as of this year, 17 free-standing For Love accessories stores. Mrs. Chang, who is in her 50s, cultivates an all-but-invisible profile. She declined to appear for a scheduled interview, dispatching Lisa Boisset, the company’s vice president for merchandise, to speak for her. Ms. Boisset discussed her boss, who appears in photographs as a trim woman with dark hair that swings well past her shoulders, with a born-again zeal. Her eyes appeared to well spontaneously as she talked about the Changs’ deep-rooted spirituality. The Changs’ Christian faith is telegraphed near the bottom of the stores’ trademark yellow shopping bags with the stamp, John 3:16, referring to a biblical passage. Ms. Boisset described the Changs as ever on the prowl for ideas and trends. While it takes a designer like several months to get clothes into stores after their debut on the runways, Forever 21 delivers interpretations of the same looks within six weeks. Among the stores’ hip offerings this month are a club-friendly white cotton corset trimmed in midnight blue lace ($19.80), a scarlet cotton swing jacket cropped well above the waist ($27.80), denim capri pants ($27.80) and a puff-sleeve hoodie sprinkled with tiny hearts ($17.80). The chain says it employs no designers, “just very savvy designer merchants,” Ms. Boisset said. Although these merchants’ skills are at the heart of Forever 21’s success in offering shoppers faithful adaptations of runway hits, the company declined to make them available for an interview. “Our design process is proprietary,” Ms. Boisset said. Next Article in Fashion & Style (1 of 12) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. FRONT ROW; No Hiding From Alice Roi CRITICAL SHOPPER; No Store Is a Hero to Its Valet ONLINE SHOPPER; A Narrow Window Into the Future If There's A Buck In It Somewhere Retail Stores and Trade Trademarks and Trade Names Economic Conditions and Trends Next Article in Fashion & Style (1 of 12) &#x00bb; A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/fashion/10granny.html	The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny - New York Times The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Photographs by Michael Stravato for The New York times Angela Kim&#146;s baby-sitting routine: On Tuesdays her husband, Augustine, drops her off at a Houston airport. She&#146;s met at the curb in Dallas by her daughter, Andrea, and her son, Noah, 2. Then it&#146;s off to the hospital where Andrea works, where Mrs. Kim takes the wheel. She heads for Noah&#146;s preschool and after that, home for a nap. On Wednesday nights she makes the reverse commute. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 ANGELA KIM spends two days a week baby-sitting for her 2-year-old grandson, Noah, while her daughter, Andrea, a doctor, works nine-hour hospital shifts. Only Mrs. Kim, 57, lives in Houston and her daughter and grandson live in Dallas — 250 miles away. This long-distance child care arrangement means that on Tuesdays Mrs. Kim wakes at 4:45 a.m. to catch a 6:30 a.m. Southwest Airlines flight to Dallas Love Airport, where her daughter and Noah pick her up at the curb. At the hospital, her daughter hops out of the car to make her 8 a.m. shift and Mrs. Kim slips into the driver’s seat. Then she and Noah drive to his preschool, and after that, home, where Mrs. Kim fills her grandson’s next two days with brown rice, seaweed and Konglish, a mix of Korean and English. On Wednesday night, Mrs. Kim does the trip in reverse, catching a 7:30 p.m. flight to the Houston airport, where her husband picks her up. Terri P. Tepper of Barrington, Ill., made a similar trek every week for a year to help care for her granddaughter so that her daughter could pursue her career. Beginning in 2001, Ms. Tepper flew to New York on Sundays and returned to Chicago on Thursdays. “It was cheaper than getting a nanny,” said Ms. Tepper, 64. The round-trip tickets, which her daughter paid for, cost between $190 and $230. “I actually saved them a lot of money,” Ms. Tepper said. Her daughter later made partner in her consulting firm. Even at a time when grandparents are more involved than ever in the lives of their children and grandchildren, the efforts of Mrs. Kim and Ms. Tepper are extraordinary. But many grandparents these days are making extreme efforts to help their children bridge the work-life divide. “To me, grandparents are like the family National Guard,” said Andrew J. Cherlin, a sociologist at who studies intergenerational issues. “They are ready to step in when there is a need, and as soon as that need is met, they are ready to leave active duty.” “In low-income families,” he continued, “it may be the grandmother down the street who helps out. In high-income families, it is the grandmother in a neighboring city who helps out.” Intercity commuting is just one way they provide that help. Grandparents are also taking time off from work, retiring early, moving to the United States from overseas or selling their home to be near grandchildren. The greater involvement results from a confluence of factors, including the financial burdens of child care and anxiety over the quality of care. But most notably it is influenced by a generation of grandparents who have the time and the financial wherewithal to pitch in. “This is the first generation where we have so many older people living long enough, being healthy enough and being affluent enough to provide these services on a large scale” since women entered the workplace in large numbers, Dr. Cherlin said. But the involvement cuts across the economic spectrum. According to the census, 19.4 percent of preschool children with working mothers were primarily entrusted to grandparents in 2002, the latest year for which there are statistics. Grandparents took charge more often than fathers (18.2 percent), day care (19 percent) or hired help (9 percent). In 1995, grandparents ranked third behind fathers and day care centers, at 15.9 percent. There are no figures on how many grandparents go to extremes, because they can afford to, to care for their children’s children. “We call them grandboomers,” said Amy Goyer, national coordinator for the Foundation Grandparent Information Center, which has noticed heightened interest in information and services for grandparents. “They have more disposable income. They may have planned better for retirement.” For example, Judy Chen of Seattle could afford to take a year off as a hospital researcher to move to the Bay Area to baby-sit to help her daughter, a corporate lawyer. Her career was better able to absorb the timeout, she said: She was close to retirement, but her daughter was on a fairly strict career track in her firm. “Compared with her job, I have to sacrifice a little bit,” Mrs. Chen said. Besides, she said, echoing a sentiment expressed in similar terms by other Asian and Latino grandparents interviewed, “I am a Chinese mother.” Stepping in — even moving in — is customary in cultures that stress intergenerational familial obligations. In Mrs. Chen’s case, her sense of obligation to her daughter trumps that to her husband, who was left home alone for a year. “He is lonely, but he has a job,” Mrs. Chen said. Mrs. Chen’s daughter and son-in-law were reluctant to hire a nanny, feeling uncomfortable with strangers raising their son. They said they also worry about day care, expressing a widely shared parental anxiety that was only heightened by a National Institutes of Health study published this year that found some evidence of increased behavior problems among sixth graders the more time they had spent in professional day care. Were it not for the help of her mother and mother-in-law, Andrea Kim said, she would have quit her residency rather than put Noah in day care two years ago. “I couldn’t bring myself to do it,” said Andrea Kim, who had already invested nine years in college, medical school and a residency at that point. “I had a lot of guilt.” And so she proposed the flying granny nanny scenario to her mother. “It was a joke when I first mentioned it, then it turned into a plea,” Andrea Kim said. Some weeks, her mother or her father, Augustine, 61, fly to Dallas, scoop Noah up at the airport curbside pickup and take him to Houston on the next flight. “It’s crazy, isn’t it?” said Mrs. Kim, the grandmother. “Somehow it works out.” Next Article in Fashion & Style (3 of 12) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Get Back to Work SHORTCUTS; Too Busy to Notice You're Too Busy Study Finds Rise in Behavior Problems After Significant Time in Day Care Teaching Movie Moguls to Wipe Drool Families and Family Life Next Article in Fashion & Style (3 of 12) &#x00bb; A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/fashion/10MOSS.html?ex=1336449600&en=f4bf4b2d59275fa1&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	It&#8217;s Her World, We&#8217;re Just Buying It - New York Times It’s Her World, We’re Just Buying It Librado Romero/The New York Times Shoppers flocked to Barneys on Wednesday for the American introduction of Kate Moss&#146;s clothing line. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 KATE MOSS pondered the question for a moment. Her shoulders heaved forward to hold up a wisp of fabric in a print of white barbed wire that could qualify as a dress only on her. She gestured beyond the colossal security guards in three-piece suits, the scruffy entourage, the D.J. girls with the cropped platinum hair wearing her little dresses, the waiters clearing the detritus of broken Champagne glasses left in their wake and the sea of gawking news-media types whirling in the background with notepads in hand. Then she said what she wanted: Skip to next paragraph Kate Moss at a party on Monday. “The world of Kate.” Ms. Moss touched the shoulder of Sir Philip Green, the British retail king who introduced the first collection of Kate Moss frocks at his Topshop chain in London last week and escorted her on Tuesday night to the seventh floor of Barneys New York for its American release. You’d have thought by the turnout that Queen Elizabeth had popped in for a white sale. “I never told you that, did I?” Ms. Moss said, clearly to the delight of Sir Philip. “The world of Kate!” The British press has not been entirely kind to Ms. Moss during her 19-year career. Setting aside for a moment the September 2005 news-media storm over images published in The Daily Mirror that indicated she had used cocaine, Ms. Moss’s debut as a designer was clobbered by the London papers. A sample headline from The Daily Mail last Wednesday: “Hysteria and the Great Kate Moss Con.” But her fast transformation from working-class model to burgeoning brand name may be the most telling example of the current power of notoriety to sell clothes. Even Ms. Moss, who has cultivated an unparalleled mystique as a model who rarely reveals what is happening behind her beautiful facade, was visibly overwhelmed by the turnout of more than 1,000 customers for the Topshop introduction in London. “I was a nervous wreck,” she said at Barneys. “I’ve always had a lot of attention to the way I dress. I don’t take that as a personal thing, like, ‘Oooh, they like me.’ They want a dress. Girls like clothes.” Yesterday morning, surprisingly, there were fewer than 100 women waiting outside the Barneys store on Madison Avenue when it opened at 10 a.m. At the front of the line, sisters Brittney and Danielle Hershkowitz, 18 and 16 respectively, had been there for four hours. “I think anything she wears, people want,” said Brittney Hershkowitz, standing before a window display that included a tiered black chiffon dress like the one Ms. Moss wore to the gala on Monday ($575). “She is very desirable, even after her drug scandal. I just don’t understand that. She’s supposed to be a role model for young children, so I’m shocked that so many people still stand behind her.” Still, Ms. Hershkowitz said she loved the model’s style and was intrigued by the paradox of her increasing success in the wake of the scandal. “Personally, I forgave her,” she said, “but I thought I was the exception.” So did many other women at Barneys, scooping up $20 henley tanks and floral chiffon baby-doll tops for $120. “That’s her own problem,” said Jane Ko, 31, a jewelry designer in Manhattan. “It’s more about her style for me. She has a magic touch. No matter what she wears, it’s fabulous.” Ms. Moss’s problems may have humanized her in the minds of a public insatiable for celebrity gossip and yet sympathetic to the scrutiny under which celebrities must live. In Ms. Moss’s case, rising above the controversy has become part of her appeal, or perhaps an element of the brand. When Simon Doonan, the Barneys creative director, created an unintended stir by playfully describing Ms. Moss’s democratic appeal in The New York Post as “a working-class slag from a crap town, like me,” a British T-shirt company was selling “working-class slag” T-shirts for £14 (about $28) at PEOPLE want a piece of anything that has Kate Moss’s name on it,” said Mickey Boardman, a columnist for Paper magazine, who was at the Barneys event, having his picture taken against a wall covered with cardboard cut-out images of Ms. Moss’s face. “She really is a rock star. She makes me want to take drugs and smoke, and I hate smoking. She just looks glamorous all the time.” Later that night at the Waverly Inn, Ms. Moss gave a hint that she is well aware of the power of her image. As she swept past the table of a mischievous diner who had been to her party, he held up one of the Kate Moss masks to his face. “Oh no!” she screamed, leaning in to reference a film that questions the power of identity and fame. “Being John Malkovich! Being John Malkovich!” Next Article in Fashion & Style (2 of 12) &#x00bb; Explore TimesSelect with a no-risk 14-day free trial. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Is There A Place for Olivier Theyskens? Trademarks and Trade Names Next Article in Fashion & Style (2 of 12) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/pages/fashion/index.html	Fashion & Style - New York Times Natasha Calzatti for The New York Times Models at a Forever 21 store in Pasadena, Calif., display trends that appeal to both children and adults. Faster Fashion, Cheaper Chic By RUTH LA FERLA Trends are served fresh daily at Forever 21, the clothing retailer growing like a weed near you. It’s Her World, We’re Just Buying It Kate Moss released her collection at Barney’s last week, exemplifying the current power of notoriety to sell clothes. The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny By JENNIFER 8. LEE Some affluent retirees don’t mind dropping in by air to baby-sit. The Woman No Hat Could Tame In a world of bold fashion, Isabella Blow spoke the loudest. Obituary: Isabella Blow, Flamboyant Discoverer of Fashion Talent, Dies at 48 The Collarbone’s Connected to Slimness This season’s hot accessory: a prominent clavicle. All-in-Ones: Bring on the Tiny Purse These days, sticks, pencils and compacts can perform multiple beauty duty without dominating the purse — or the wallet. More Skin Deep Articles: Blogging for Truth and Beauty Whose Face Is It, Really? Charlotte Moss, an interiors concept store arranged over four stories of an Upper East Side town house, is staged to resemble the designer’s own home. Take Me to Your Designer Philippe Starck, the French designer who is consulting as art director for Richard Branson’s development of Virgin Galactic spacecraft, is now designing pared-down spacesuits. The Yoga Therapist Will See You Now Are one-on-one yoga classes effective physical therapy? A New Attitude for the Hip The fanny pack: it’s not just for Michelin guides. Slide Show: The New Fanny Pack No Nook Unbuttered, No Slice Unturned Finding a hearty English muffin (for a fuss-free breakfast). Correction: Up, Up and ... Never Mind It's all about extreme grilling, good-humored ice-cream, bachelor pads, the must-haves and more. Plus, go behind the scenes in the Go to T: Style Magazine » Supporting the King of Fashion Photos from the Metropolitan Museum of Art Costume Institute Benefit Gala "Poiret: The King Of Fashion." Images from "Poiret: King of Fashion" at the Metropolitan Museum's Costume Institute. Gear Test With Nancy Hobbs, Trail Racer By SARAH BOWEN SHEA Purists don’t dare race in trail running shoes. Enter trail racing shoes with stickier, firmer soles and less weight than everyday trail running shoes. Art Review | 'Poiret: King of Fashion' What to Wear to a Revolution The Metropolitan Museum of Art’s sumptuous survey of the designs of the French couturier Paul Poiret will transform your understanding of the origin of modern fashion. Cathy Horyn goes backstage at shows and design houses, and inside the minds of designers. MOST POPULAR - STYLE The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? Faster Fashion, Cheaper Chic In the Garden: It Takes a Hammer to Grow This Salad A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Critic’s Notebook: In Los Angeles, the Accidental Pizza Maker Fitness: The Yoga Therapist Will See You Now Tribute: The Woman No Hat Could Tame Fitness: A Healthy Mix of Rest and Motion Go to Complete List » You Do the Math Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Post a job online today! What’s new on Broadway? Buy, sell or rent a home. Photos, fine art, books and more. Which gadget is getting all the buzz? Start your 30-day free trial of Times Reader today. The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/fashion/10BLOW.html	The Woman No Hat Could Tame - New York Times The Woman No Hat Could Tame Bill Cunningham/The New York Times Isabella Blow stopped traffic with her outrageous getups. She was a friend to many in the fashion world, including the milliner Philip Treacy, right, and Hedi Slimane, at left. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 ISABELLA BLOW, the English eccentric and sorcerer of talent who died this week, was a completely implausible figure. You could not explain her and you could not reason with her. She was incredibly bright on the subject of fashion and rarefied tastes, a fact she wore on her sleeve and on her head. She loved a bustle, a corseted waist and a spectacular hat. And not for her the mushy-pea variety, the Ascot bonnet. Skip to next paragraph Isabella Blow, Flamboyant Discoverer of Fashion Talent, Dies at 48 Bill Cunningham/The New York Times Her party headgear included an octopus hat, with a lobster necklace. A horned creation for a do at Madame Tussaud&#146;s in London. Bill Cunningham/The New York Times Her hats were the big-game kind, trophies of her wit and imagination: a veiled set of antlers, a jewel-encrusted lobster, a sailing ship, a pheasant. Her more exotic choices of headgear could be attributed to an aesthetic link with her paternal grandmother, Lady Vera Delves Broughton, an explorer and hunter, who claimed to have supped on a tribesman in Papua New Guinea. “She wasn’t strictly a cannibal,” her granddaughter pointed out. But try to remind Izzy, as she was called, during one of her periodic financial crises that even aristocratic eccentrics had to occasionally go out and earn a living, and she would laugh her deep honking laugh and say, “Oh, honey...” Although Izzy worked regularly as a fashion editor, at different times for British Vogue, The Sunday Times and Tatler, and intermittently as a consultant to companies like Swarovski, she had, in a sense, no clear role. And that was a problem for her. “Nobody knew how to quantify her talent,” said her friend Daphne Guinness, whose great-grandfather knew Ms. Blow’s grandmother. She was definitely the catalyst to the designer Alexander McQueen and the milliner Philip Treacy, her all-consuming belief in their talent that of a patron. Though, as Ms. Guinness said: “She could ill afford to be that. People took it for granted that because she came from a certain type of background she had money. She didn’t have that kind of support, though she could spend her last penny helping someone.” Michael Roberts, the fashion director of Vanity Fair, took on Ms. Blow as his assistant at Tatler in the mid-1980s and remained close to her until the last months of her life. Recalling her discovery of Mr. McQueen, in the early ’90s, Mr. Roberts said: “She rang me up and said, ‘You’ve got to see this guy’s clothing.’ Then she dragged me off to a basement in Piccadilly, a smelly basement. But she was absolutely right.” In both appearance and expectations she belonged very much, one felt, to a different time. “She was the most interesting person I ever met,” Mr. Treacy said this week in The Guardian. Though English newspapers and magazines typically have small budgets, Ms. Blow invariably stayed at the most expensive hotels. “She went over budget because she didn’t have any conception of budget,” said Jonathan Newhouse, who oversees the Condé Nast magazines in Europe and Asia. As Ms. Guinness said, “She had that kind of extravagant, ’30s idea of money.” She traveled with numerous pieces of luggage, including hatboxes. Recalling a trip they made together to Kuwait for a photo shoot, Ms. Guinness said: “We were in Terminal 4 at Heathrow. I’m not someone who fades into the background, either, but Izzy looked like a highwayman.” She had on a cape and tricorn. Although Ms. Blow was an exceptionally cultivated woman, at ease with a baroness or a shopgirl, she advanced toward things with a kind of willful cluelessness. In Kuwait, oblivious of Islamic laws, she put models in bikinis. “Suddenly people came out of nowhere with guns at us,” Ms. Guinness said. “She was so nonplussed.” For a cameo appearance in Wes Anderson’s “Life Aquatic With Steve Zissou,” she fretted, according to her friend Ronnie Newhouse, that she would be nervous and asked one of the actors if he had ever “done this kind of thing before.” It was Bill Murray. But it was difficult for Ms. Blow to find a home in a world she influenced. She was upset that Mr. McQueen didn’t take her along when he sold his brand to Gucci, though they remained good friends. “She functioned outside the corporate world,” Ms. Guinness said. “Once the deals started happening, she fell by the wayside. Everybody else got contracts, and she got a free dress.” It may be that she didn’t know how to ask for a position, Ms. Guinness said. “But getting that kind of acknowledgment would have given her esteem. She poured all of that esteem into other people, but had none of her own.” In the last year, Ms. Blow suffered from serious depression, attempting suicide at least twice, according to her friends. Last May she jumped from a highway overpass, breaking both legs. She remained, in a sense, valiantly Izzy, pointing out to her friends that she had been dressed to the nines, and in her hospital room smoking inside a cupboard, “as if somebody wouldn’t notice it,” Ms. Guinness said. While the Newhouses took care of many of her medical bills, and her friends did what they could do to help her, she became more and more remote, convinced that she would end up as a bag lady. Nothing could make her see the beauty in things the way she once had, turning the fashion world on its ear. Next Article in Fashion & Style (4 of 12) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Isabella Blow, Flamboyant Discoverer of Fashion Talent, Dies at 48 Mad As A Hatter's Muse Review/Fashion; This is Paris. No Giggling, Please. Next Article in Fashion & Style (4 of 12) &#x00bb; A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/fashion/10skin.html?ex=1336449600&en=faa4d4f54af5150a&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	All-in-Ones: Bring on the Tiny Purse - New York Times All-in-Ones: Bring on the Tiny Purse Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 NO strangers are we to multitasking; it was only a matter of time before we demanded our makeup do the same. These days, sticks, pencils and compacts can perform multiple beauty duty without dominating the purse — or the wallet. Skip to next paragraph Jamel Toppin for The New York Times Smashbox, Benefit and Stila (compact) all sell makeup that can be used on eyes, cheeks and lips. Skin Deep: Whose Face Is It, Really? Skin Deep: Blogging for Truth and Beauty For a while the two-in-ones made some noise: Vincent Longo, Stila, Lorac and Smashbox offered liquid stainers or creamers for both lips and cheeks. While the stainer gave cheeks a flushed glow, it added just-bitten color to lips. But that wasn’t enough. Enter three-in-one makeup, wands and sticks made to be worn on lips, cheeks, eyes and even the shoulders and neck. “Movable color is having a popular moment because of new technology and modern formulations,” said Jeanine Recckio, of Mirror Mirror Imagination Group, which forecasts beauty trends. “The colors and consistency is more forgiving than heavy makeups of the past.” Nars was one of the first, in 1997 introducing the Multiple, which it billed as “the original all-in-one, cream-to-powder, multipurpose makeup stick.” The stick can be used to highlight, sculpt and warm eyes, cheeks and lips. At $36.50 and with 12 shades, when is the last time a product tried to accomplish so much? In the last few months three new products arrived: Rush Hour ($20), by Benefit, a slim, oil-free stick, promises an “instant makeover” for eyes, lips and cheeks; 3-of-a-Kind Twist-Up Stick ($3.59), by Wet n Wild; and e.l.f. All Over Cover Stick ($1), which at two inches tall, is also a space saver. Multitaskers appear to be selling. More than 100,000 wands of Rush Hour have been sold since mid-January, exceeding Benefit’s expectations, according to Benefit’s founders. The Multiple is consistently one of Nars’s best-selling products, said Kimberley Thomas, Nars’s vice president for North America sales. “Women want to simplify the makeup application process,” said Trish McEvoy, whose Essential Pencil ($20), advertised as a lipstick, blusher and overall highlighter, is also a top seller. Certainly, the two- and three-fer products are cost-effective. A shadow ($21), blush ($25) and lipstick ($23) from Nars can easily cost more than $65. And customers seem to find them convenient and time-saving. “It’s about practicality,” said Rebecca McGuire, 32, a branding consultant whose career often requires her to attend events at the last minute. “I need something that’s compact but works everywhere.” She said she prefers Nars Multiple St. Barts shade: “I love that I’ve found one product that makes me look pretty and presentable without feeling as if I’m covered in makeup.” Yet it’s difficult enough to find one color you love for one facial area, let alone one that works in multiple spots. And, said James Boehmer, Nars’s international lead makeup stylist: “With one color you take the chance of looking monochromatic and flat. It’s not the most exciting thing you can do with your makeup.” But a good color — Mr. Boehmer prefers Multiple’s Portofino — that is used well “can give a luminescent finish” to lips, cheeks and eyes, he said. “That’s a lot of get from one stick.” Next Article in Fashion & Style (6 of 12) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. SKIN DEEP; Beware the Afterglow Shades of Truth: An Account Of a Kabul School Is Challenged SKIN DEEP; New Hope at the Beauty Counter: Bling in a Jar THE REMIX; The JetÃ© Set Next Article in Fashion & Style (6 of 12) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/fashion/10FOREVER.html?ex=1336449600&en=794fcef5a0a08a86&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Faster Fashion, Cheaper Chic - New York Times Faster Fashion, Cheaper Chic Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 Skip to next paragraph Natasha Calzatti for The New York Times Models at a Forever 21 store in Pasadena, Calif., display trends that appeal to both children and adults. Natasha Calzatti for The New York Times Whether in tidy stores in Southern California, above, or in the hectic setting of Manhattan, merchandise is plentiful. COLIBRI EVANS navigated the aisles of Forever 21 at the Beverly Center last week with a sure step and a shrewd eye. Her mother, Sasha Evans, was more circumspect, offering for Colibri’s approval a string of neo-hippie beads Joss Stone might have coveted. “It’s her job to say ‘Yes, No, Yes, No,’ ” Mrs. Evans said, nodding toward her daughter, a 29-year-old music producer. “She tells me what’s cool and what’s too young for me.” It was Mrs. Evans’s first visit to a store that at first glance seemed to cater exclusively to the sparkle gloss-and-cami set. All the same she was intent on finding “maybe a nice overshirt,” she said, “something summery that hides my questionable areas.” With Mother’s Day just over a week away, a trip to the cavernous fashion bazaar at the uppermost level of the mall promised to cement a bond. “For me it’s a way of our just being together, of spending some quality time with my mom,” Ms. Evans said. Bonding is only part of a larger emotional payoff for recreational shoppers like the Evanses, who throng the store, part of the rapidly expanding Forever 21 chain, giddy at the prospect of daily deliveries of fresh, trend-driven fashions at prices that undercut even those of its competitor H&M, across the corridor. By relentlessly chasing trends and catering to an ever-widening market — young women and matrons, men and toddlers — Forever 21 has positioned itself as a retail powerhouse, the American answer to fast fashion emporiums like the European-based Zara, Mexx and H&M. The privately held company has galloped ahead in recent years, doubling its number of stores to 400 since 2005. Retail analysts estimate sales have grown to more than $1 billion last year from about $640 million in 2005. “They are playing by a different set of rules,” said Howard Davidowitz, a New York retail consultant, partly by catering to entire families rather than focusing on teenagers, but also by rivaling competitors in scale. Forever 21 stores are typically 25,000 square feet, roughly five times that of many Anthropologie or Gap stores. Don and Jin Chang, the founders and owners of the chain, opened their first store on Figueroa Street in downtown Los Angeles in the mid-1980s. The small shop, aimed primarily at schoolgirls, proved successful enough that the Changs, who immigrated from South Korea, were able to add new stores on an average of every six months. By the early ’90s, Forever 21 was a significant mall presence. The purchase of Gadzooks, a Midwest clothing retailer, for about $33 million at auction two years ago placed the chain “in the land of the giants,” Mr. Davidowitz said. Last year the company opened its retail showpiece, a 40,000-square-foot store in Pasadena, Calif., offering women’s, men’s and children’s clothing, accessories and lingerie. Clearly the jewel in the family diadem, it is housed in a former Saks Fifth Avenue with silver candelabra posted at the door. The company also operates a Web site, and, as of this year, 17 free-standing For Love accessories stores. Mrs. Chang, who is in her 50s, cultivates an all-but-invisible profile. She declined to appear for a scheduled interview, dispatching Lisa Boisset, the company’s vice president for merchandise, to speak for her. Ms. Boisset discussed her boss, who appears in photographs as a trim woman with dark hair that swings well past her shoulders, with a born-again zeal. Her eyes appeared to well spontaneously as she talked about the Changs’ deep-rooted spirituality. The Changs’ Christian faith is telegraphed near the bottom of the stores’ trademark yellow shopping bags with the stamp, John 3:16, referring to a biblical passage. Ms. Boisset described the Changs as ever on the prowl for ideas and trends. While it takes a designer like several months to get clothes into stores after their debut on the runways, Forever 21 delivers interpretations of the same looks within six weeks. Among the stores’ hip offerings this month are a club-friendly white cotton corset trimmed in midnight blue lace ($19.80), a scarlet cotton swing jacket cropped well above the waist ($27.80), denim capri pants ($27.80) and a puff-sleeve hoodie sprinkled with tiny hearts ($17.80). The chain says it employs no designers, “just very savvy designer merchants,” Ms. Boisset said. Although these merchants’ skills are at the heart of Forever 21’s success in offering shoppers faithful adaptations of runway hits, the company declined to make them available for an interview. “Our design process is proprietary,” Ms. Boisset said. Next Article in Fashion & Style (1 of 12) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. FRONT ROW; No Hiding From Alice Roi CRITICAL SHOPPER; No Store Is a Hero to Its Valet ONLINE SHOPPER; A Narrow Window Into the Future If There's A Buck In It Somewhere Retail Stores and Trade Trademarks and Trade Names Economic Conditions and Trends Next Article in Fashion & Style (1 of 12) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/fashion/10clavicle.html	The Collarbone&#8217;s Connected to Slimness - New York Times The Collarbone’s Connected to Slimness Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 LET’S say a woman clocked a few hundred crunches a day, Stairmastered her bottom into a replica of J. Lo’s and avoided carbs so assiduously that the waiters at her regular restaurants knew not to bother with a breadbasket. If no one could see results of all of this exertion and deprivation, would it count? Skip to next paragraph Tony Cenicola/The New York Times The well-chiseled clavicle is in. And with that, styles showing deep necklines, like this Moschino dress, are highly coveted by women who brandish their collarbones as a sign of thinness. That is the conundrum posed by the spring’s most coveted fashion item, dresses that conceal as much as they reveal. At Bergdorf Goodman on a recent Saturday, waifish young women fingered trapeze dresses by designers like Diane Von Furstenberg and Vince. A cream-colored Moschino version stood on out from the body of a mannequin like a sphinx, the shoulders and upper chest peeking out of its oblong neck. “We did great with it,” a saleswoman said. As the rest of women’s bodies recede in spring fashions, the clavicles, or collarbones, and the upper chest between them, is rising to prominence. Toned shoppers who want to show off their self-discipline in the face of dessert are choosing dresses with a low, but not plunging neckline, a look that is transforming the area above the breasts into an unlikely new subject for women to obsess over. Some people think of it as an erogenous zone; others think it is noteworthy only as a barometer of whether a woman is at a healthy weight or has become too skinny. “I always want to show off my collarbone,” said Gabriella Morello, a Columbia sophomore who had just finished a class at the Equinox Fitness Club on the Upper East Side that included push-ups, chest presses, flys and other exercises for the upper chest. “I’ll buy clothes to show off that area. You don’t want just the scoop neck, you want the Chloé dress that crosses here,” she said, pointing to her clavicle. Why the new emphasis on a body part most women — and more men — have paid little attention to in the past? Credit a swing of the fashion pendulum, and a malaise over “Girls Gone Wild” style. Showing off your clavicle is “the opposite of showing your thong,” said Valerie Steele, director of the Museum at the Fashion Institute of Technology Another reason is that prominent clavicles can be a signifier of skinniness. Sharply outlined collarbones say “Don’t let this tent dress fool you: Underneath it all, this girl can fit into a sample size.” “The clothing threatens to make you look overweight and so you need a certain body to undo that threat,” said Virginia Blum, a professor of English at the , who has written extensively on women and beauty. “In that clothing, one has to find a way of revealing the authentically thin body.” , a consultant for Equinox, said that when people lose weight, the bones and muscles of the chest area often become more visible. It is also an area whose prominence is unlikely to be enhanced surgically (at least for now). This region has been emphasized by the skinny celebrity acolytes of the stylist Rachel Zoe, including Nicole Richie and Keira Knightley. Their ubiquitous deep V-neck tops show off sometimes skeletal frames, and other actresses have taken their cue and sized down as well, to the point that the Internet teems with fashion and celebrity bloggers and message board posters carping about protruding A-list clavicles. After the Oscars and the Golden Globes this year, bloggers took actresses like Anne Hathaway and Naomi Watts to task for their “scary” and even “knobby” clavicles. When Kate Bosworth recently put on a few pounds, heralded the occasion with the headline “Kate’s Clavicle Comes Full Circle.” Courtney E. Martin, the author of “Perfect Girls, Starving Daughters: The Frightening New Normalcy of Hating Your Body” (Free Press, 2007), said that many of the girls and women she interviewed for her book “talked about how far their collarbone stuck out” with pride, as an indicator of their skinniness. Ms. Martin contends that a generation of young women raised after Title IX and the women’s movement pursue slender figures with the same rigor as they pursue admission to an When Jessica Braff, who works at an advertising agency in New York, lost 15 pounds in her freshmen year of college, the first thing she noticed was that her clavicles were more pronounced. “I loved it,” she said. She continues to wear clothes that show off her collarbones, which she calls the “easiest and least controversial expression of a kind of sex appeal.” Just a few years ago the clavicle and the region around it was considered a kind of anti-erogenous zone. One designer who has long emphasized the region is Consuelo Castiglioni, whose label, Marni, incorporates chest-baring necklines into tops and dresses. The brand has long been a favorite of women seeking clothing that isn’t expressly made to attract men, including skirts with bustles and tops that flare out to obscure any semblance of a waist. “I think it is clear from my designs that deep cleavages, tight silhouettes, visible tummies or behinds are not part of my aesthetic,” Ms. Castiglioni said in an e-mail message. “What I try to express is elegance and femininity and a more cerebral, hidden sensuality.” Perfect, then, for women who don’t want to look like they are trying to be sexy. Or like they are trying at all. In fact, this most passive-aggressive of body parts — it’s a lot harder to get a protruding clavicle than it looks — is the perfect focus for a generation that, according to a 2003 Duke University study, wants to appear “effortlessly perfect.” Women’s interest in protruding clavicles is reminiscent of their attempts to achieve the Linda Hamilton arms of the early ’90s — a signal to one another that they are superwomen. Which is why a backlash against the exposed and protruding clavicle is already in effect. The blogger diaryofamadfashionista has written about “the disturbing rise of the clavicle,” adding, “We women of Rubenesque dimensions must band together and DEMAND that fashion take note of bosoms, buttocks, legs, plump dimpled elbows, and all of those other beautiful touches that make a female, well, female.” Perhaps some men would agree. Suzanne Calo, an elementary school teacher in Hicksville, N.Y., is proud of her “bony clavicles,” especially now that she is pregnant and every other part of her body seems to have become bigger. “That’s my favorite area,” she said. Her husband, Anthony Calo, on the other hand, is ambivalent. “Honey, have you ever said anything about my clavicles?” she called out while on the phone. “You know, my collarbones?” There was a pause. “He shrugged,” she said. Next Article in Fashion & Style (5 of 12) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Vogue Plays Fairy Godmother FRONT ROW; No Hiding From Alice Roi PULSE; The Polished Traveler FASHION; Recycling Along the Red Carpet: Did Somebody Say Knockoff? Next Article in Fashion & Style (5 of 12) &#x00bb; A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/fashion/10skin.html	All-in-Ones: Bring on the Tiny Purse - New York Times All-in-Ones: Bring on the Tiny Purse Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 NO strangers are we to multitasking; it was only a matter of time before we demanded our makeup do the same. These days, sticks, pencils and compacts can perform multiple beauty duty without dominating the purse — or the wallet. Skip to next paragraph Jamel Toppin for The New York Times Smashbox, Benefit and Stila (compact) all sell makeup that can be used on eyes, cheeks and lips. Skin Deep: Whose Face Is It, Really? Skin Deep: Blogging for Truth and Beauty For a while the two-in-ones made some noise: Vincent Longo, Stila, Lorac and Smashbox offered liquid stainers or creamers for both lips and cheeks. While the stainer gave cheeks a flushed glow, it added just-bitten color to lips. But that wasn’t enough. Enter three-in-one makeup, wands and sticks made to be worn on lips, cheeks, eyes and even the shoulders and neck. “Movable color is having a popular moment because of new technology and modern formulations,” said Jeanine Recckio, of Mirror Mirror Imagination Group, which forecasts beauty trends. “The colors and consistency is more forgiving than heavy makeups of the past.” Nars was one of the first, in 1997 introducing the Multiple, which it billed as “the original all-in-one, cream-to-powder, multipurpose makeup stick.” The stick can be used to highlight, sculpt and warm eyes, cheeks and lips. At $36.50 and with 12 shades, when is the last time a product tried to accomplish so much? In the last few months three new products arrived: Rush Hour ($20), by Benefit, a slim, oil-free stick, promises an “instant makeover” for eyes, lips and cheeks; 3-of-a-Kind Twist-Up Stick ($3.59), by Wet n Wild; and e.l.f. All Over Cover Stick ($1), which at two inches tall, is also a space saver. Multitaskers appear to be selling. More than 100,000 wands of Rush Hour have been sold since mid-January, exceeding Benefit’s expectations, according to Benefit’s founders. The Multiple is consistently one of Nars’s best-selling products, said Kimberley Thomas, Nars’s vice president for North America sales. “Women want to simplify the makeup application process,” said Trish McEvoy, whose Essential Pencil ($20), advertised as a lipstick, blusher and overall highlighter, is also a top seller. Certainly, the two- and three-fer products are cost-effective. A shadow ($21), blush ($25) and lipstick ($23) from Nars can easily cost more than $65. And customers seem to find them convenient and time-saving. “It’s about practicality,” said Rebecca McGuire, 32, a branding consultant whose career often requires her to attend events at the last minute. “I need something that’s compact but works everywhere.” She said she prefers Nars Multiple St. Barts shade: “I love that I’ve found one product that makes me look pretty and presentable without feeling as if I’m covered in makeup.” Yet it’s difficult enough to find one color you love for one facial area, let alone one that works in multiple spots. And, said James Boehmer, Nars’s international lead makeup stylist: “With one color you take the chance of looking monochromatic and flat. It’s not the most exciting thing you can do with your makeup.” But a good color — Mr. Boehmer prefers Multiple’s Portofino — that is used well “can give a luminescent finish” to lips, cheeks and eyes, he said. “That’s a lot of get from one stick.” Next Article in Fashion & Style (6 of 12) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. SKIN DEEP; Beware the Afterglow Shades of Truth: An Account Of a Kabul School Is Challenged SKIN DEEP; New Hope at the Beauty Counter: Bling in a Jar THE REMIX; The JetÃ© Set Next Article in Fashion & Style (6 of 12) &#x00bb; A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/fashion/10BLOW.html?ex=1336449600&en=5467f5e141712e18&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	The Woman No Hat Could Tame - New York Times The Woman No Hat Could Tame Bill Cunningham/The New York Times Isabella Blow stopped traffic with her outrageous getups. She was a friend to many in the fashion world, including the milliner Philip Treacy, right, and Hedi Slimane, at left. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 ISABELLA BLOW, the English eccentric and sorcerer of talent who died this week, was a completely implausible figure. You could not explain her and you could not reason with her. She was incredibly bright on the subject of fashion and rarefied tastes, a fact she wore on her sleeve and on her head. She loved a bustle, a corseted waist and a spectacular hat. And not for her the mushy-pea variety, the Ascot bonnet. Skip to next paragraph Isabella Blow, Flamboyant Discoverer of Fashion Talent, Dies at 48 Bill Cunningham/The New York Times Her party headgear included an octopus hat, with a lobster necklace. A horned creation for a do at Madame Tussaud&#146;s in London. Bill Cunningham/The New York Times Her hats were the big-game kind, trophies of her wit and imagination: a veiled set of antlers, a jewel-encrusted lobster, a sailing ship, a pheasant. Her more exotic choices of headgear could be attributed to an aesthetic link with her paternal grandmother, Lady Vera Delves Broughton, an explorer and hunter, who claimed to have supped on a tribesman in Papua New Guinea. “She wasn’t strictly a cannibal,” her granddaughter pointed out. But try to remind Izzy, as she was called, during one of her periodic financial crises that even aristocratic eccentrics had to occasionally go out and earn a living, and she would laugh her deep honking laugh and say, “Oh, honey...” Although Izzy worked regularly as a fashion editor, at different times for British Vogue, The Sunday Times and Tatler, and intermittently as a consultant to companies like Swarovski, she had, in a sense, no clear role. And that was a problem for her. “Nobody knew how to quantify her talent,” said her friend Daphne Guinness, whose great-grandfather knew Ms. Blow’s grandmother. She was definitely the catalyst to the designer Alexander McQueen and the milliner Philip Treacy, her all-consuming belief in their talent that of a patron. Though, as Ms. Guinness said: “She could ill afford to be that. People took it for granted that because she came from a certain type of background she had money. She didn’t have that kind of support, though she could spend her last penny helping someone.” Michael Roberts, the fashion director of Vanity Fair, took on Ms. Blow as his assistant at Tatler in the mid-1980s and remained close to her until the last months of her life. Recalling her discovery of Mr. McQueen, in the early ’90s, Mr. Roberts said: “She rang me up and said, ‘You’ve got to see this guy’s clothing.’ Then she dragged me off to a basement in Piccadilly, a smelly basement. But she was absolutely right.” In both appearance and expectations she belonged very much, one felt, to a different time. “She was the most interesting person I ever met,” Mr. Treacy said this week in The Guardian. Though English newspapers and magazines typically have small budgets, Ms. Blow invariably stayed at the most expensive hotels. “She went over budget because she didn’t have any conception of budget,” said Jonathan Newhouse, who oversees the Condé Nast magazines in Europe and Asia. As Ms. Guinness said, “She had that kind of extravagant, ’30s idea of money.” She traveled with numerous pieces of luggage, including hatboxes. Recalling a trip they made together to Kuwait for a photo shoot, Ms. Guinness said: “We were in Terminal 4 at Heathrow. I’m not someone who fades into the background, either, but Izzy looked like a highwayman.” She had on a cape and tricorn. Although Ms. Blow was an exceptionally cultivated woman, at ease with a baroness or a shopgirl, she advanced toward things with a kind of willful cluelessness. In Kuwait, oblivious of Islamic laws, she put models in bikinis. “Suddenly people came out of nowhere with guns at us,” Ms. Guinness said. “She was so nonplussed.” For a cameo appearance in Wes Anderson’s “Life Aquatic With Steve Zissou,” she fretted, according to her friend Ronnie Newhouse, that she would be nervous and asked one of the actors if he had ever “done this kind of thing before.” It was Bill Murray. But it was difficult for Ms. Blow to find a home in a world she influenced. She was upset that Mr. McQueen didn’t take her along when he sold his brand to Gucci, though they remained good friends. “She functioned outside the corporate world,” Ms. Guinness said. “Once the deals started happening, she fell by the wayside. Everybody else got contracts, and she got a free dress.” It may be that she didn’t know how to ask for a position, Ms. Guinness said. “But getting that kind of acknowledgment would have given her esteem. She poured all of that esteem into other people, but had none of her own.” In the last year, Ms. Blow suffered from serious depression, attempting suicide at least twice, according to her friends. Last May she jumped from a highway overpass, breaking both legs. She remained, in a sense, valiantly Izzy, pointing out to her friends that she had been dressed to the nines, and in her hospital room smoking inside a cupboard, “as if somebody wouldn’t notice it,” Ms. Guinness said. While the Newhouses took care of many of her medical bills, and her friends did what they could do to help her, she became more and more remote, convinced that she would end up as a bag lady. Nothing could make her see the beauty in things the way she once had, turning the fashion world on its ear. Next Article in Fashion & Style (4 of 12) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Isabella Blow, Flamboyant Discoverer of Fashion Talent, Dies at 48 Mad As A Hatter's Muse Review/Fashion; This is Paris. No Giggling, Please. Next Article in Fashion & Style (4 of 12) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/fashion/10MOSS.html	It&#8217;s Her World, We&#8217;re Just Buying It - New York Times It’s Her World, We’re Just Buying It Librado Romero/The New York Times Shoppers flocked to Barneys on Wednesday for the American introduction of Kate Moss&#146;s clothing line. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 KATE MOSS pondered the question for a moment. Her shoulders heaved forward to hold up a wisp of fabric in a print of white barbed wire that could qualify as a dress only on her. She gestured beyond the colossal security guards in three-piece suits, the scruffy entourage, the D.J. girls with the cropped platinum hair wearing her little dresses, the waiters clearing the detritus of broken Champagne glasses left in their wake and the sea of gawking news-media types whirling in the background with notepads in hand. Then she said what she wanted: Skip to next paragraph Kate Moss at a party on Monday. “The world of Kate.” Ms. Moss touched the shoulder of Sir Philip Green, the British retail king who introduced the first collection of Kate Moss frocks at his Topshop chain in London last week and escorted her on Tuesday night to the seventh floor of Barneys New York for its American release. You’d have thought by the turnout that Queen Elizabeth had popped in for a white sale. “I never told you that, did I?” Ms. Moss said, clearly to the delight of Sir Philip. “The world of Kate!” The British press has not been entirely kind to Ms. Moss during her 19-year career. Setting aside for a moment the September 2005 news-media storm over images published in The Daily Mirror that indicated she had used cocaine, Ms. Moss’s debut as a designer was clobbered by the London papers. A sample headline from The Daily Mail last Wednesday: “Hysteria and the Great Kate Moss Con.” But her fast transformation from working-class model to burgeoning brand name may be the most telling example of the current power of notoriety to sell clothes. Even Ms. Moss, who has cultivated an unparalleled mystique as a model who rarely reveals what is happening behind her beautiful facade, was visibly overwhelmed by the turnout of more than 1,000 customers for the Topshop introduction in London. “I was a nervous wreck,” she said at Barneys. “I’ve always had a lot of attention to the way I dress. I don’t take that as a personal thing, like, ‘Oooh, they like me.’ They want a dress. Girls like clothes.” Yesterday morning, surprisingly, there were fewer than 100 women waiting outside the Barneys store on Madison Avenue when it opened at 10 a.m. At the front of the line, sisters Brittney and Danielle Hershkowitz, 18 and 16 respectively, had been there for four hours. “I think anything she wears, people want,” said Brittney Hershkowitz, standing before a window display that included a tiered black chiffon dress like the one Ms. Moss wore to the gala on Monday ($575). “She is very desirable, even after her drug scandal. I just don’t understand that. She’s supposed to be a role model for young children, so I’m shocked that so many people still stand behind her.” Still, Ms. Hershkowitz said she loved the model’s style and was intrigued by the paradox of her increasing success in the wake of the scandal. “Personally, I forgave her,” she said, “but I thought I was the exception.” So did many other women at Barneys, scooping up $20 henley tanks and floral chiffon baby-doll tops for $120. “That’s her own problem,” said Jane Ko, 31, a jewelry designer in Manhattan. “It’s more about her style for me. She has a magic touch. No matter what she wears, it’s fabulous.” Ms. Moss’s problems may have humanized her in the minds of a public insatiable for celebrity gossip and yet sympathetic to the scrutiny under which celebrities must live. In Ms. Moss’s case, rising above the controversy has become part of her appeal, or perhaps an element of the brand. When Simon Doonan, the Barneys creative director, created an unintended stir by playfully describing Ms. Moss’s democratic appeal in The New York Post as “a working-class slag from a crap town, like me,” a British T-shirt company was selling “working-class slag” T-shirts for £14 (about $28) at PEOPLE want a piece of anything that has Kate Moss’s name on it,” said Mickey Boardman, a columnist for Paper magazine, who was at the Barneys event, having his picture taken against a wall covered with cardboard cut-out images of Ms. Moss’s face. “She really is a rock star. She makes me want to take drugs and smoke, and I hate smoking. She just looks glamorous all the time.” Later that night at the Waverly Inn, Ms. Moss gave a hint that she is well aware of the power of her image. As she swept past the table of a mischievous diner who had been to her party, he held up one of the Kate Moss masks to his face. “Oh no!” she screamed, leaning in to reference a film that questions the power of identity and fame. “Being John Malkovich! Being John Malkovich!” Next Article in Fashion & Style (2 of 12) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Is There A Place for Olivier Theyskens? Trademarks and Trade Names Next Article in Fashion & Style (2 of 12) &#x00bb; A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/fashion/10clavicle.html?ex=1336449600&en=2b309cad1fcd8ac8&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	The Collarbone&#8217;s Connected to Slimness - New York Times The Collarbone’s Connected to Slimness Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 LET’S say a woman clocked a few hundred crunches a day, Stairmastered her bottom into a replica of J. Lo’s and avoided carbs so assiduously that the waiters at her regular restaurants knew not to bother with a breadbasket. If no one could see results of all of this exertion and deprivation, would it count? Skip to next paragraph Tony Cenicola/The New York Times The well-chiseled clavicle is in. And with that, styles showing deep necklines, like this Moschino dress, are highly coveted by women who brandish their collarbones as a sign of thinness. That is the conundrum posed by the spring’s most coveted fashion item, dresses that conceal as much as they reveal. At Bergdorf Goodman on a recent Saturday, waifish young women fingered trapeze dresses by designers like Diane Von Furstenberg and Vince. A cream-colored Moschino version stood on out from the body of a mannequin like a sphinx, the shoulders and upper chest peeking out of its oblong neck. “We did great with it,” a saleswoman said. As the rest of women’s bodies recede in spring fashions, the clavicles, or collarbones, and the upper chest between them, is rising to prominence. Toned shoppers who want to show off their self-discipline in the face of dessert are choosing dresses with a low, but not plunging neckline, a look that is transforming the area above the breasts into an unlikely new subject for women to obsess over. Some people think of it as an erogenous zone; others think it is noteworthy only as a barometer of whether a woman is at a healthy weight or has become too skinny. “I always want to show off my collarbone,” said Gabriella Morello, a Columbia sophomore who had just finished a class at the Equinox Fitness Club on the Upper East Side that included push-ups, chest presses, flys and other exercises for the upper chest. “I’ll buy clothes to show off that area. You don’t want just the scoop neck, you want the Chloé dress that crosses here,” she said, pointing to her clavicle. Why the new emphasis on a body part most women — and more men — have paid little attention to in the past? Credit a swing of the fashion pendulum, and a malaise over “Girls Gone Wild” style. Showing off your clavicle is “the opposite of showing your thong,” said Valerie Steele, director of the Museum at the Fashion Institute of Technology Another reason is that prominent clavicles can be a signifier of skinniness. Sharply outlined collarbones say “Don’t let this tent dress fool you: Underneath it all, this girl can fit into a sample size.” “The clothing threatens to make you look overweight and so you need a certain body to undo that threat,” said Virginia Blum, a professor of English at the , who has written extensively on women and beauty. “In that clothing, one has to find a way of revealing the authentically thin body.” , a consultant for Equinox, said that when people lose weight, the bones and muscles of the chest area often become more visible. It is also an area whose prominence is unlikely to be enhanced surgically (at least for now). This region has been emphasized by the skinny celebrity acolytes of the stylist Rachel Zoe, including Nicole Richie and Keira Knightley. Their ubiquitous deep V-neck tops show off sometimes skeletal frames, and other actresses have taken their cue and sized down as well, to the point that the Internet teems with fashion and celebrity bloggers and message board posters carping about protruding A-list clavicles. After the Oscars and the Golden Globes this year, bloggers took actresses like Anne Hathaway and Naomi Watts to task for their “scary” and even “knobby” clavicles. When Kate Bosworth recently put on a few pounds, heralded the occasion with the headline “Kate’s Clavicle Comes Full Circle.” Courtney E. Martin, the author of “Perfect Girls, Starving Daughters: The Frightening New Normalcy of Hating Your Body” (Free Press, 2007), said that many of the girls and women she interviewed for her book “talked about how far their collarbone stuck out” with pride, as an indicator of their skinniness. Ms. Martin contends that a generation of young women raised after Title IX and the women’s movement pursue slender figures with the same rigor as they pursue admission to an When Jessica Braff, who works at an advertising agency in New York, lost 15 pounds in her freshmen year of college, the first thing she noticed was that her clavicles were more pronounced. “I loved it,” she said. She continues to wear clothes that show off her collarbones, which she calls the “easiest and least controversial expression of a kind of sex appeal.” Just a few years ago the clavicle and the region around it was considered a kind of anti-erogenous zone. One designer who has long emphasized the region is Consuelo Castiglioni, whose label, Marni, incorporates chest-baring necklines into tops and dresses. The brand has long been a favorite of women seeking clothing that isn’t expressly made to attract men, including skirts with bustles and tops that flare out to obscure any semblance of a waist. “I think it is clear from my designs that deep cleavages, tight silhouettes, visible tummies or behinds are not part of my aesthetic,” Ms. Castiglioni said in an e-mail message. “What I try to express is elegance and femininity and a more cerebral, hidden sensuality.” Perfect, then, for women who don’t want to look like they are trying to be sexy. Or like they are trying at all. In fact, this most passive-aggressive of body parts — it’s a lot harder to get a protruding clavicle than it looks — is the perfect focus for a generation that, according to a 2003 Duke University study, wants to appear “effortlessly perfect.” Women’s interest in protruding clavicles is reminiscent of their attempts to achieve the Linda Hamilton arms of the early ’90s — a signal to one another that they are superwomen. Which is why a backlash against the exposed and protruding clavicle is already in effect. The blogger diaryofamadfashionista has written about “the disturbing rise of the clavicle,” adding, “We women of Rubenesque dimensions must band together and DEMAND that fashion take note of bosoms, buttocks, legs, plump dimpled elbows, and all of those other beautiful touches that make a female, well, female.” Perhaps some men would agree. Suzanne Calo, an elementary school teacher in Hicksville, N.Y., is proud of her “bony clavicles,” especially now that she is pregnant and every other part of her body seems to have become bigger. “That’s my favorite area,” she said. Her husband, Anthony Calo, on the other hand, is ambivalent. “Honey, have you ever said anything about my clavicles?” she called out while on the phone. “You know, my collarbones?” There was a pause. “He shrugged,” she said. Next Article in Fashion & Style (5 of 12) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Vogue Plays Fairy Godmother FRONT ROW; No Hiding From Alice Roi PULSE; The Polished Traveler FASHION; Recycling Along the Red Carpet: Did Somebody Say Knockoff? Next Article in Fashion & Style (5 of 12) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/fashion/10granny.html?ex=1336449600&en=6f9d640b4f754f2c&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny - New York Times The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Photographs by Michael Stravato for The New York times Angela Kim&#146;s baby-sitting routine: On Tuesdays her husband, Augustine, drops her off at a Houston airport. She&#146;s met at the curb in Dallas by her daughter, Andrea, and her son, Noah, 2. Then it&#146;s off to the hospital where Andrea works, where Mrs. Kim takes the wheel. She heads for Noah&#146;s preschool and after that, home for a nap. On Wednesday nights she makes the reverse commute. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 ANGELA KIM spends two days a week baby-sitting for her 2-year-old grandson, Noah, while her daughter, Andrea, a doctor, works nine-hour hospital shifts. Only Mrs. Kim, 57, lives in Houston and her daughter and grandson live in Dallas — 250 miles away. This long-distance child care arrangement means that on Tuesdays Mrs. Kim wakes at 4:45 a.m. to catch a 6:30 a.m. Southwest Airlines flight to Dallas Love Airport, where her daughter and Noah pick her up at the curb. At the hospital, her daughter hops out of the car to make her 8 a.m. shift and Mrs. Kim slips into the driver’s seat. Then she and Noah drive to his preschool, and after that, home, where Mrs. Kim fills her grandson’s next two days with brown rice, seaweed and Konglish, a mix of Korean and English. On Wednesday night, Mrs. Kim does the trip in reverse, catching a 7:30 p.m. flight to the Houston airport, where her husband picks her up. Terri P. Tepper of Barrington, Ill., made a similar trek every week for a year to help care for her granddaughter so that her daughter could pursue her career. Beginning in 2001, Ms. Tepper flew to New York on Sundays and returned to Chicago on Thursdays. “It was cheaper than getting a nanny,” said Ms. Tepper, 64. The round-trip tickets, which her daughter paid for, cost between $190 and $230. “I actually saved them a lot of money,” Ms. Tepper said. Her daughter later made partner in her consulting firm. Even at a time when grandparents are more involved than ever in the lives of their children and grandchildren, the efforts of Mrs. Kim and Ms. Tepper are extraordinary. But many grandparents these days are making extreme efforts to help their children bridge the work-life divide. “To me, grandparents are like the family National Guard,” said Andrew J. Cherlin, a sociologist at who studies intergenerational issues. “They are ready to step in when there is a need, and as soon as that need is met, they are ready to leave active duty.” “In low-income families,” he continued, “it may be the grandmother down the street who helps out. In high-income families, it is the grandmother in a neighboring city who helps out.” Intercity commuting is just one way they provide that help. Grandparents are also taking time off from work, retiring early, moving to the United States from overseas or selling their home to be near grandchildren. The greater involvement results from a confluence of factors, including the financial burdens of child care and anxiety over the quality of care. But most notably it is influenced by a generation of grandparents who have the time and the financial wherewithal to pitch in. “This is the first generation where we have so many older people living long enough, being healthy enough and being affluent enough to provide these services on a large scale” since women entered the workplace in large numbers, Dr. Cherlin said. But the involvement cuts across the economic spectrum. According to the census, 19.4 percent of preschool children with working mothers were primarily entrusted to grandparents in 2002, the latest year for which there are statistics. Grandparents took charge more often than fathers (18.2 percent), day care (19 percent) or hired help (9 percent). In 1995, grandparents ranked third behind fathers and day care centers, at 15.9 percent. There are no figures on how many grandparents go to extremes, because they can afford to, to care for their children’s children. “We call them grandboomers,” said Amy Goyer, national coordinator for the Foundation Grandparent Information Center, which has noticed heightened interest in information and services for grandparents. “They have more disposable income. They may have planned better for retirement.” For example, Judy Chen of Seattle could afford to take a year off as a hospital researcher to move to the Bay Area to baby-sit to help her daughter, a corporate lawyer. Her career was better able to absorb the timeout, she said: She was close to retirement, but her daughter was on a fairly strict career track in her firm. “Compared with her job, I have to sacrifice a little bit,” Mrs. Chen said. Besides, she said, echoing a sentiment expressed in similar terms by other Asian and Latino grandparents interviewed, “I am a Chinese mother.” Stepping in — even moving in — is customary in cultures that stress intergenerational familial obligations. In Mrs. Chen’s case, her sense of obligation to her daughter trumps that to her husband, who was left home alone for a year. “He is lonely, but he has a job,” Mrs. Chen said. Mrs. Chen’s daughter and son-in-law were reluctant to hire a nanny, feeling uncomfortable with strangers raising their son. They said they also worry about day care, expressing a widely shared parental anxiety that was only heightened by a National Institutes of Health study published this year that found some evidence of increased behavior problems among sixth graders the more time they had spent in professional day care. Were it not for the help of her mother and mother-in-law, Andrea Kim said, she would have quit her residency rather than put Noah in day care two years ago. “I couldn’t bring myself to do it,” said Andrea Kim, who had already invested nine years in college, medical school and a residency at that point. “I had a lot of guilt.” And so she proposed the flying granny nanny scenario to her mother. “It was a joke when I first mentioned it, then it turned into a plea,” Andrea Kim said. Some weeks, her mother or her father, Augustine, 61, fly to Dallas, scoop Noah up at the airport curbside pickup and take him to Houston on the next flight. “It’s crazy, isn’t it?” said Mrs. Kim, the grandmother. “Somehow it works out.” Next Article in Fashion & Style (3 of 12) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Get Back to Work SHORTCUTS; Too Busy to Notice You're Too Busy Study Finds Rise in Behavior Problems After Significant Time in Day Care Teaching Movie Moguls to Wipe Drool Families and Family Life Next Article in Fashion & Style (3 of 12) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/pages/fashion/index.html?partner=rssnyt	Fashion & Style - New York Times Natasha Calzatti for The New York Times Models at a Forever 21 store in Pasadena, Calif., display trends that appeal to both children and adults. Faster Fashion, Cheaper Chic By RUTH LA FERLA Trends are served fresh daily at Forever 21, the clothing retailer growing like a weed near you. It’s Her World, We’re Just Buying It Kate Moss released her collection at Barney’s last week, exemplifying the current power of notoriety to sell clothes. The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny By JENNIFER 8. LEE Some affluent retirees don’t mind dropping in by air to baby-sit. The Woman No Hat Could Tame In a world of bold fashion, Isabella Blow spoke the loudest. Obituary: Isabella Blow, Flamboyant Discoverer of Fashion Talent, Dies at 48 The Collarbone’s Connected to Slimness This season’s hot accessory: a prominent clavicle. All-in-Ones: Bring on the Tiny Purse These days, sticks, pencils and compacts can perform multiple beauty duty without dominating the purse — or the wallet. More Skin Deep Articles: Blogging for Truth and Beauty Whose Face Is It, Really? Charlotte Moss, an interiors concept store arranged over four stories of an Upper East Side town house, is staged to resemble the designer’s own home. Take Me to Your Designer Philippe Starck, the French designer who is consulting as art director for Richard Branson’s development of Virgin Galactic spacecraft, is now designing pared-down spacesuits. The Yoga Therapist Will See You Now Are one-on-one yoga classes effective physical therapy? A New Attitude for the Hip The fanny pack: it’s not just for Michelin guides. Slide Show: The New Fanny Pack No Nook Unbuttered, No Slice Unturned Finding a hearty English muffin (for a fuss-free breakfast). Correction: Up, Up and ... Never Mind It's all about extreme grilling, good-humored ice-cream, bachelor pads, the must-haves and more. Plus, go behind the scenes in the Go to T: Style Magazine » Supporting the King of Fashion Photos from the Metropolitan Museum of Art Costume Institute Benefit Gala "Poiret: The King Of Fashion." Images from "Poiret: King of Fashion" at the Metropolitan Museum's Costume Institute. Gear Test With Nancy Hobbs, Trail Racer By SARAH BOWEN SHEA Purists don’t dare race in trail running shoes. Enter trail racing shoes with stickier, firmer soles and less weight than everyday trail running shoes. Art Review | 'Poiret: King of Fashion' What to Wear to a Revolution The Metropolitan Museum of Art’s sumptuous survey of the designs of the French couturier Paul Poiret will transform your understanding of the origin of modern fashion. Cathy Horyn goes backstage at shows and design houses, and inside the minds of designers. MOST POPULAR - STYLE The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? Faster Fashion, Cheaper Chic In the Garden: It Takes a Hammer to Grow This Salad A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Critic’s Notebook: In Los Angeles, the Accidental Pizza Maker Fitness: The Yoga Therapist Will See You Now Tribute: The Woman No Hat Could Tame Fitness: A Healthy Mix of Rest and Motion Go to Complete List » You Do the Math Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer East Harlem Swimming Pool, 2004 Browse movie reviews from 1913. Find a world of reasons to go. Buy, sell or rent a home. Photos, fine art, books and more. Buy, sell or research a car. Start your 30-day free trial of Times Reader today. The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/fashion/10FOREVER.html	Faster Fashion, Cheaper Chic - New York Times Faster Fashion, Cheaper Chic Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 Skip to next paragraph Natasha Calzatti for The New York Times Models at a Forever 21 store in Pasadena, Calif., display trends that appeal to both children and adults. Natasha Calzatti for The New York Times Whether in tidy stores in Southern California, above, or in the hectic setting of Manhattan, merchandise is plentiful. COLIBRI EVANS navigated the aisles of Forever 21 at the Beverly Center last week with a sure step and a shrewd eye. Her mother, Sasha Evans, was more circumspect, offering for Colibri’s approval a string of neo-hippie beads Joss Stone might have coveted. “It’s her job to say ‘Yes, No, Yes, No,’ ” Mrs. Evans said, nodding toward her daughter, a 29-year-old music producer. “She tells me what’s cool and what’s too young for me.” It was Mrs. Evans’s first visit to a store that at first glance seemed to cater exclusively to the sparkle gloss-and-cami set. All the same she was intent on finding “maybe a nice overshirt,” she said, “something summery that hides my questionable areas.” With Mother’s Day just over a week away, a trip to the cavernous fashion bazaar at the uppermost level of the mall promised to cement a bond. “For me it’s a way of our just being together, of spending some quality time with my mom,” Ms. Evans said. Bonding is only part of a larger emotional payoff for recreational shoppers like the Evanses, who throng the store, part of the rapidly expanding Forever 21 chain, giddy at the prospect of daily deliveries of fresh, trend-driven fashions at prices that undercut even those of its competitor H&M, across the corridor. By relentlessly chasing trends and catering to an ever-widening market — young women and matrons, men and toddlers — Forever 21 has positioned itself as a retail powerhouse, the American answer to fast fashion emporiums like the European-based Zara, Mexx and H&M. The privately held company has galloped ahead in recent years, doubling its number of stores to 400 since 2005. Retail analysts estimate sales have grown to more than $1 billion last year from about $640 million in 2005. “They are playing by a different set of rules,” said Howard Davidowitz, a New York retail consultant, partly by catering to entire families rather than focusing on teenagers, but also by rivaling competitors in scale. Forever 21 stores are typically 25,000 square feet, roughly five times that of many Anthropologie or Gap stores. Don and Jin Chang, the founders and owners of the chain, opened their first store on Figueroa Street in downtown Los Angeles in the mid-1980s. The small shop, aimed primarily at schoolgirls, proved successful enough that the Changs, who immigrated from South Korea, were able to add new stores on an average of every six months. By the early ’90s, Forever 21 was a significant mall presence. The purchase of Gadzooks, a Midwest clothing retailer, for about $33 million at auction two years ago placed the chain “in the land of the giants,” Mr. Davidowitz said. Last year the company opened its retail showpiece, a 40,000-square-foot store in Pasadena, Calif., offering women’s, men’s and children’s clothing, accessories and lingerie. Clearly the jewel in the family diadem, it is housed in a former Saks Fifth Avenue with silver candelabra posted at the door. The company also operates a Web site, and, as of this year, 17 free-standing For Love accessories stores. Mrs. Chang, who is in her 50s, cultivates an all-but-invisible profile. She declined to appear for a scheduled interview, dispatching Lisa Boisset, the company’s vice president for merchandise, to speak for her. Ms. Boisset discussed her boss, who appears in photographs as a trim woman with dark hair that swings well past her shoulders, with a born-again zeal. Her eyes appeared to well spontaneously as she talked about the Changs’ deep-rooted spirituality. The Changs’ Christian faith is telegraphed near the bottom of the stores’ trademark yellow shopping bags with the stamp, John 3:16, referring to a biblical passage. Ms. Boisset described the Changs as ever on the prowl for ideas and trends. While it takes a designer like several months to get clothes into stores after their debut on the runways, Forever 21 delivers interpretations of the same looks within six weeks. Among the stores’ hip offerings this month are a club-friendly white cotton corset trimmed in midnight blue lace ($19.80), a scarlet cotton swing jacket cropped well above the waist ($27.80), denim capri pants ($27.80) and a puff-sleeve hoodie sprinkled with tiny hearts ($17.80). The chain says it employs no designers, “just very savvy designer merchants,” Ms. Boisset said. Although these merchants’ skills are at the heart of Forever 21’s success in offering shoppers faithful adaptations of runway hits, the company declined to make them available for an interview. “Our design process is proprietary,” Ms. Boisset said. Next Article in Fashion & Style (1 of 12) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. FRONT ROW; No Hiding From Alice Roi CRITICAL SHOPPER; No Store Is a Hero to Its Valet ONLINE SHOPPER; A Narrow Window Into the Future If There's A Buck In It Somewhere Retail Stores and Trade Trademarks and Trade Names Economic Conditions and Trends Next Article in Fashion & Style (1 of 12) &#x00bb; A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/fashion/10granny.html	The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny - New York Times The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Photographs by Michael Stravato for The New York times Angela Kim&#146;s baby-sitting routine: On Tuesdays her husband, Augustine, drops her off at a Houston airport. She&#146;s met at the curb in Dallas by her daughter, Andrea, and her son, Noah, 2. Then it&#146;s off to the hospital where Andrea works, where Mrs. Kim takes the wheel. She heads for Noah&#146;s preschool and after that, home for a nap. On Wednesday nights she makes the reverse commute. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 ANGELA KIM spends two days a week baby-sitting for her 2-year-old grandson, Noah, while her daughter, Andrea, a doctor, works nine-hour hospital shifts. Only Mrs. Kim, 57, lives in Houston and her daughter and grandson live in Dallas — 250 miles away. This long-distance child care arrangement means that on Tuesdays Mrs. Kim wakes at 4:45 a.m. to catch a 6:30 a.m. Southwest Airlines flight to Dallas Love Airport, where her daughter and Noah pick her up at the curb. At the hospital, her daughter hops out of the car to make her 8 a.m. shift and Mrs. Kim slips into the driver’s seat. Then she and Noah drive to his preschool, and after that, home, where Mrs. Kim fills her grandson’s next two days with brown rice, seaweed and Konglish, a mix of Korean and English. On Wednesday night, Mrs. Kim does the trip in reverse, catching a 7:30 p.m. flight to the Houston airport, where her husband picks her up. Terri P. Tepper of Barrington, Ill., made a similar trek every week for a year to help care for her granddaughter so that her daughter could pursue her career. Beginning in 2001, Ms. Tepper flew to New York on Sundays and returned to Chicago on Thursdays. “It was cheaper than getting a nanny,” said Ms. Tepper, 64. The round-trip tickets, which her daughter paid for, cost between $190 and $230. “I actually saved them a lot of money,” Ms. Tepper said. Her daughter later made partner in her consulting firm. Even at a time when grandparents are more involved than ever in the lives of their children and grandchildren, the efforts of Mrs. Kim and Ms. Tepper are extraordinary. But many grandparents these days are making extreme efforts to help their children bridge the work-life divide. “To me, grandparents are like the family National Guard,” said Andrew J. Cherlin, a sociologist at who studies intergenerational issues. “They are ready to step in when there is a need, and as soon as that need is met, they are ready to leave active duty.” “In low-income families,” he continued, “it may be the grandmother down the street who helps out. In high-income families, it is the grandmother in a neighboring city who helps out.” Intercity commuting is just one way they provide that help. Grandparents are also taking time off from work, retiring early, moving to the United States from overseas or selling their home to be near grandchildren. The greater involvement results from a confluence of factors, including the financial burdens of child care and anxiety over the quality of care. But most notably it is influenced by a generation of grandparents who have the time and the financial wherewithal to pitch in. “This is the first generation where we have so many older people living long enough, being healthy enough and being affluent enough to provide these services on a large scale” since women entered the workplace in large numbers, Dr. Cherlin said. But the involvement cuts across the economic spectrum. According to the census, 19.4 percent of preschool children with working mothers were primarily entrusted to grandparents in 2002, the latest year for which there are statistics. Grandparents took charge more often than fathers (18.2 percent), day care (19 percent) or hired help (9 percent). In 1995, grandparents ranked third behind fathers and day care centers, at 15.9 percent. There are no figures on how many grandparents go to extremes, because they can afford to, to care for their children’s children. “We call them grandboomers,” said Amy Goyer, national coordinator for the Foundation Grandparent Information Center, which has noticed heightened interest in information and services for grandparents. “They have more disposable income. They may have planned better for retirement.” For example, Judy Chen of Seattle could afford to take a year off as a hospital researcher to move to the Bay Area to baby-sit to help her daughter, a corporate lawyer. Her career was better able to absorb the timeout, she said: She was close to retirement, but her daughter was on a fairly strict career track in her firm. “Compared with her job, I have to sacrifice a little bit,” Mrs. Chen said. Besides, she said, echoing a sentiment expressed in similar terms by other Asian and Latino grandparents interviewed, “I am a Chinese mother.” Stepping in — even moving in — is customary in cultures that stress intergenerational familial obligations. In Mrs. Chen’s case, her sense of obligation to her daughter trumps that to her husband, who was left home alone for a year. “He is lonely, but he has a job,” Mrs. Chen said. Mrs. Chen’s daughter and son-in-law were reluctant to hire a nanny, feeling uncomfortable with strangers raising their son. They said they also worry about day care, expressing a widely shared parental anxiety that was only heightened by a National Institutes of Health study published this year that found some evidence of increased behavior problems among sixth graders the more time they had spent in professional day care. Were it not for the help of her mother and mother-in-law, Andrea Kim said, she would have quit her residency rather than put Noah in day care two years ago. “I couldn’t bring myself to do it,” said Andrea Kim, who had already invested nine years in college, medical school and a residency at that point. “I had a lot of guilt.” And so she proposed the flying granny nanny scenario to her mother. “It was a joke when I first mentioned it, then it turned into a plea,” Andrea Kim said. Some weeks, her mother or her father, Augustine, 61, fly to Dallas, scoop Noah up at the airport curbside pickup and take him to Houston on the next flight. “It’s crazy, isn’t it?” said Mrs. Kim, the grandmother. “Somehow it works out.” Next Article in Fashion & Style (3 of 12) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Get Back to Work SHORTCUTS; Too Busy to Notice You're Too Busy Study Finds Rise in Behavior Problems After Significant Time in Day Care Teaching Movie Moguls to Wipe Drool Families and Family Life Next Article in Fashion & Style (3 of 12) &#x00bb; A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/fashion/10MOSS.html?ex=1336449600&en=f4bf4b2d59275fa1&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	It&#8217;s Her World, We&#8217;re Just Buying It - New York Times It’s Her World, We’re Just Buying It Librado Romero/The New York Times Shoppers flocked to Barneys on Wednesday for the American introduction of Kate Moss&#146;s clothing line. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 KATE MOSS pondered the question for a moment. Her shoulders heaved forward to hold up a wisp of fabric in a print of white barbed wire that could qualify as a dress only on her. She gestured beyond the colossal security guards in three-piece suits, the scruffy entourage, the D.J. girls with the cropped platinum hair wearing her little dresses, the waiters clearing the detritus of broken Champagne glasses left in their wake and the sea of gawking news-media types whirling in the background with notepads in hand. Then she said what she wanted: Skip to next paragraph Kate Moss at a party on Monday. “The world of Kate.” Ms. Moss touched the shoulder of Sir Philip Green, the British retail king who introduced the first collection of Kate Moss frocks at his Topshop chain in London last week and escorted her on Tuesday night to the seventh floor of Barneys New York for its American release. You’d have thought by the turnout that Queen Elizabeth had popped in for a white sale. “I never told you that, did I?” Ms. Moss said, clearly to the delight of Sir Philip. “The world of Kate!” The British press has not been entirely kind to Ms. Moss during her 19-year career. Setting aside for a moment the September 2005 news-media storm over images published in The Daily Mirror that indicated she had used cocaine, Ms. Moss’s debut as a designer was clobbered by the London papers. A sample headline from The Daily Mail last Wednesday: “Hysteria and the Great Kate Moss Con.” But her fast transformation from working-class model to burgeoning brand name may be the most telling example of the current power of notoriety to sell clothes. Even Ms. Moss, who has cultivated an unparalleled mystique as a model who rarely reveals what is happening behind her beautiful facade, was visibly overwhelmed by the turnout of more than 1,000 customers for the Topshop introduction in London. “I was a nervous wreck,” she said at Barneys. “I’ve always had a lot of attention to the way I dress. I don’t take that as a personal thing, like, ‘Oooh, they like me.’ They want a dress. Girls like clothes.” Yesterday morning, surprisingly, there were fewer than 100 women waiting outside the Barneys store on Madison Avenue when it opened at 10 a.m. At the front of the line, sisters Brittney and Danielle Hershkowitz, 18 and 16 respectively, had been there for four hours. “I think anything she wears, people want,” said Brittney Hershkowitz, standing before a window display that included a tiered black chiffon dress like the one Ms. Moss wore to the gala on Monday ($575). “She is very desirable, even after her drug scandal. I just don’t understand that. She’s supposed to be a role model for young children, so I’m shocked that so many people still stand behind her.” Still, Ms. Hershkowitz said she loved the model’s style and was intrigued by the paradox of her increasing success in the wake of the scandal. “Personally, I forgave her,” she said, “but I thought I was the exception.” So did many other women at Barneys, scooping up $20 henley tanks and floral chiffon baby-doll tops for $120. “That’s her own problem,” said Jane Ko, 31, a jewelry designer in Manhattan. “It’s more about her style for me. She has a magic touch. No matter what she wears, it’s fabulous.” Ms. Moss’s problems may have humanized her in the minds of a public insatiable for celebrity gossip and yet sympathetic to the scrutiny under which celebrities must live. In Ms. Moss’s case, rising above the controversy has become part of her appeal, or perhaps an element of the brand. When Simon Doonan, the Barneys creative director, created an unintended stir by playfully describing Ms. Moss’s democratic appeal in The New York Post as “a working-class slag from a crap town, like me,” a British T-shirt company was selling “working-class slag” T-shirts for £14 (about $28) at PEOPLE want a piece of anything that has Kate Moss’s name on it,” said Mickey Boardman, a columnist for Paper magazine, who was at the Barneys event, having his picture taken against a wall covered with cardboard cut-out images of Ms. Moss’s face. “She really is a rock star. She makes me want to take drugs and smoke, and I hate smoking. She just looks glamorous all the time.” Later that night at the Waverly Inn, Ms. Moss gave a hint that she is well aware of the power of her image. As she swept past the table of a mischievous diner who had been to her party, he held up one of the Kate Moss masks to his face. “Oh no!” she screamed, leaning in to reference a film that questions the power of identity and fame. “Being John Malkovich! Being John Malkovich!” Next Article in Fashion & Style (2 of 12) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Is There A Place for Olivier Theyskens? Trademarks and Trade Names Next Article in Fashion & Style (2 of 12) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/pages/fashion/index.html	Fashion & Style - New York Times Natasha Calzatti for The New York Times Models at a Forever 21 store in Pasadena, Calif., display trends that appeal to both children and adults. Faster Fashion, Cheaper Chic By RUTH LA FERLA Trends are served fresh daily at Forever 21, the clothing retailer growing like a weed near you. It’s Her World, We’re Just Buying It Kate Moss released her collection at Barney’s last week, exemplifying the current power of notoriety to sell clothes. The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny By JENNIFER 8. LEE Some affluent retirees don’t mind dropping in by air to baby-sit. The Woman No Hat Could Tame In a world of bold fashion, Isabella Blow spoke the loudest. Obituary: Isabella Blow, Flamboyant Discoverer of Fashion Talent, Dies at 48 The Collarbone’s Connected to Slimness This season’s hot accessory: a prominent clavicle. All-in-Ones: Bring on the Tiny Purse These days, sticks, pencils and compacts can perform multiple beauty duty without dominating the purse — or the wallet. More Skin Deep Articles: Blogging for Truth and Beauty Whose Face Is It, Really? Charlotte Moss, an interiors concept store arranged over four stories of an Upper East Side town house, is staged to resemble the designer’s own home. Take Me to Your Designer Philippe Starck, the French designer who is consulting as art director for Richard Branson’s development of Virgin Galactic spacecraft, is now designing pared-down spacesuits. The Yoga Therapist Will See You Now Are one-on-one yoga classes effective physical therapy? A New Attitude for the Hip The fanny pack: it’s not just for Michelin guides. Slide Show: The New Fanny Pack No Nook Unbuttered, No Slice Unturned Finding a hearty English muffin (for a fuss-free breakfast). Correction: Up, Up and ... Never Mind It's all about extreme grilling, good-humored ice-cream, bachelor pads, the must-haves and more. Plus, go behind the scenes in the Go to T: Style Magazine » Supporting the King of Fashion Photos from the Metropolitan Museum of Art Costume Institute Benefit Gala "Poiret: The King Of Fashion." Images from "Poiret: King of Fashion" at the Metropolitan Museum's Costume Institute. Gear Test With Nancy Hobbs, Trail Racer By SARAH BOWEN SHEA Purists don’t dare race in trail running shoes. Enter trail racing shoes with stickier, firmer soles and less weight than everyday trail running shoes. Art Review | 'Poiret: King of Fashion' What to Wear to a Revolution The Metropolitan Museum of Art’s sumptuous survey of the designs of the French couturier Paul Poiret will transform your understanding of the origin of modern fashion. Cathy Horyn goes backstage at shows and design houses, and inside the minds of designers. MOST POPULAR - STYLE The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? Faster Fashion, Cheaper Chic In the Garden: It Takes a Hammer to Grow This Salad A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Critic’s Notebook: In Los Angeles, the Accidental Pizza Maker Fitness: The Yoga Therapist Will See You Now Tribute: The Woman No Hat Could Tame Fitness: A Healthy Mix of Rest and Motion Go to Complete List » You Do the Math Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Looking to buy a new car? Post a job online today! Start your 30-day free trial of Times Reader today. What movie should you see? Photos, fine art, books and more. Get the latest business news The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/fashion/10BLOW.html	The Woman No Hat Could Tame - New York Times The Woman No Hat Could Tame Bill Cunningham/The New York Times Isabella Blow stopped traffic with her outrageous getups. She was a friend to many in the fashion world, including the milliner Philip Treacy, right, and Hedi Slimane, at left. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 ISABELLA BLOW, the English eccentric and sorcerer of talent who died this week, was a completely implausible figure. You could not explain her and you could not reason with her. She was incredibly bright on the subject of fashion and rarefied tastes, a fact she wore on her sleeve and on her head. She loved a bustle, a corseted waist and a spectacular hat. And not for her the mushy-pea variety, the Ascot bonnet. Skip to next paragraph Isabella Blow, Flamboyant Discoverer of Fashion Talent, Dies at 48 Bill Cunningham/The New York Times Her party headgear included an octopus hat, with a lobster necklace. A horned creation for a do at Madame Tussaud&#146;s in London. Bill Cunningham/The New York Times Her hats were the big-game kind, trophies of her wit and imagination: a veiled set of antlers, a jewel-encrusted lobster, a sailing ship, a pheasant. Her more exotic choices of headgear could be attributed to an aesthetic link with her paternal grandmother, Lady Vera Delves Broughton, an explorer and hunter, who claimed to have supped on a tribesman in Papua New Guinea. “She wasn’t strictly a cannibal,” her granddaughter pointed out. But try to remind Izzy, as she was called, during one of her periodic financial crises that even aristocratic eccentrics had to occasionally go out and earn a living, and she would laugh her deep honking laugh and say, “Oh, honey...” Although Izzy worked regularly as a fashion editor, at different times for British Vogue, The Sunday Times and Tatler, and intermittently as a consultant to companies like Swarovski, she had, in a sense, no clear role. And that was a problem for her. “Nobody knew how to quantify her talent,” said her friend Daphne Guinness, whose great-grandfather knew Ms. Blow’s grandmother. She was definitely the catalyst to the designer Alexander McQueen and the milliner Philip Treacy, her all-consuming belief in their talent that of a patron. Though, as Ms. Guinness said: “She could ill afford to be that. People took it for granted that because she came from a certain type of background she had money. She didn’t have that kind of support, though she could spend her last penny helping someone.” Michael Roberts, the fashion director of Vanity Fair, took on Ms. Blow as his assistant at Tatler in the mid-1980s and remained close to her until the last months of her life. Recalling her discovery of Mr. McQueen, in the early ’90s, Mr. Roberts said: “She rang me up and said, ‘You’ve got to see this guy’s clothing.’ Then she dragged me off to a basement in Piccadilly, a smelly basement. But she was absolutely right.” In both appearance and expectations she belonged very much, one felt, to a different time. “She was the most interesting person I ever met,” Mr. Treacy said this week in The Guardian. Though English newspapers and magazines typically have small budgets, Ms. Blow invariably stayed at the most expensive hotels. “She went over budget because she didn’t have any conception of budget,” said Jonathan Newhouse, who oversees the Condé Nast magazines in Europe and Asia. As Ms. Guinness said, “She had that kind of extravagant, ’30s idea of money.” She traveled with numerous pieces of luggage, including hatboxes. Recalling a trip they made together to Kuwait for a photo shoot, Ms. Guinness said: “We were in Terminal 4 at Heathrow. I’m not someone who fades into the background, either, but Izzy looked like a highwayman.” She had on a cape and tricorn. Although Ms. Blow was an exceptionally cultivated woman, at ease with a baroness or a shopgirl, she advanced toward things with a kind of willful cluelessness. In Kuwait, oblivious of Islamic laws, she put models in bikinis. “Suddenly people came out of nowhere with guns at us,” Ms. Guinness said. “She was so nonplussed.” For a cameo appearance in Wes Anderson’s “Life Aquatic With Steve Zissou,” she fretted, according to her friend Ronnie Newhouse, that she would be nervous and asked one of the actors if he had ever “done this kind of thing before.” It was Bill Murray. But it was difficult for Ms. Blow to find a home in a world she influenced. She was upset that Mr. McQueen didn’t take her along when he sold his brand to Gucci, though they remained good friends. “She functioned outside the corporate world,” Ms. Guinness said. “Once the deals started happening, she fell by the wayside. Everybody else got contracts, and she got a free dress.” It may be that she didn’t know how to ask for a position, Ms. Guinness said. “But getting that kind of acknowledgment would have given her esteem. She poured all of that esteem into other people, but had none of her own.” In the last year, Ms. Blow suffered from serious depression, attempting suicide at least twice, according to her friends. Last May she jumped from a highway overpass, breaking both legs. She remained, in a sense, valiantly Izzy, pointing out to her friends that she had been dressed to the nines, and in her hospital room smoking inside a cupboard, “as if somebody wouldn’t notice it,” Ms. Guinness said. While the Newhouses took care of many of her medical bills, and her friends did what they could do to help her, she became more and more remote, convinced that she would end up as a bag lady. Nothing could make her see the beauty in things the way she once had, turning the fashion world on its ear. Next Article in Fashion & Style (4 of 12) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Isabella Blow, Flamboyant Discoverer of Fashion Talent, Dies at 48 Mad As A Hatter's Muse Review/Fashion; This is Paris. No Giggling, Please. Next Article in Fashion & Style (4 of 12) &#x00bb; A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/fashion/10skin.html?ex=1336449600&en=faa4d4f54af5150a&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	All-in-Ones: Bring on the Tiny Purse - New York Times All-in-Ones: Bring on the Tiny Purse Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 NO strangers are we to multitasking; it was only a matter of time before we demanded our makeup do the same. These days, sticks, pencils and compacts can perform multiple beauty duty without dominating the purse — or the wallet. Skip to next paragraph Jamel Toppin for The New York Times Smashbox, Benefit and Stila (compact) all sell makeup that can be used on eyes, cheeks and lips. Skin Deep: Whose Face Is It, Really? Skin Deep: Blogging for Truth and Beauty For a while the two-in-ones made some noise: Vincent Longo, Stila, Lorac and Smashbox offered liquid stainers or creamers for both lips and cheeks. While the stainer gave cheeks a flushed glow, it added just-bitten color to lips. But that wasn’t enough. Enter three-in-one makeup, wands and sticks made to be worn on lips, cheeks, eyes and even the shoulders and neck. “Movable color is having a popular moment because of new technology and modern formulations,” said Jeanine Recckio, of Mirror Mirror Imagination Group, which forecasts beauty trends. “The colors and consistency is more forgiving than heavy makeups of the past.” Nars was one of the first, in 1997 introducing the Multiple, which it billed as “the original all-in-one, cream-to-powder, multipurpose makeup stick.” The stick can be used to highlight, sculpt and warm eyes, cheeks and lips. At $36.50 and with 12 shades, when is the last time a product tried to accomplish so much? In the last few months three new products arrived: Rush Hour ($20), by Benefit, a slim, oil-free stick, promises an “instant makeover” for eyes, lips and cheeks; 3-of-a-Kind Twist-Up Stick ($3.59), by Wet n Wild; and e.l.f. All Over Cover Stick ($1), which at two inches tall, is also a space saver. Multitaskers appear to be selling. More than 100,000 wands of Rush Hour have been sold since mid-January, exceeding Benefit’s expectations, according to Benefit’s founders. The Multiple is consistently one of Nars’s best-selling products, said Kimberley Thomas, Nars’s vice president for North America sales. “Women want to simplify the makeup application process,” said Trish McEvoy, whose Essential Pencil ($20), advertised as a lipstick, blusher and overall highlighter, is also a top seller. Certainly, the two- and three-fer products are cost-effective. A shadow ($21), blush ($25) and lipstick ($23) from Nars can easily cost more than $65. And customers seem to find them convenient and time-saving. “It’s about practicality,” said Rebecca McGuire, 32, a branding consultant whose career often requires her to attend events at the last minute. “I need something that’s compact but works everywhere.” She said she prefers Nars Multiple St. Barts shade: “I love that I’ve found one product that makes me look pretty and presentable without feeling as if I’m covered in makeup.” Yet it’s difficult enough to find one color you love for one facial area, let alone one that works in multiple spots. And, said James Boehmer, Nars’s international lead makeup stylist: “With one color you take the chance of looking monochromatic and flat. It’s not the most exciting thing you can do with your makeup.” But a good color — Mr. Boehmer prefers Multiple’s Portofino — that is used well “can give a luminescent finish” to lips, cheeks and eyes, he said. “That’s a lot of get from one stick.” Next Article in Fashion & Style (6 of 12) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. SKIN DEEP; Beware the Afterglow Shades of Truth: An Account Of a Kabul School Is Challenged SKIN DEEP; New Hope at the Beauty Counter: Bling in a Jar THE REMIX; The JetÃ© Set Next Article in Fashion & Style (6 of 12) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
