http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/washington/11gonzales.html?ex=1336536000&en=f3dc17837d0f0fa0&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Democrats Push Gonzales on Attorney Dismissals - New York Times Democrats Push Gonzales on Attorney Dismissals Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 WASHINGTON, May 10 — House Democrats pressed Attorney General at a hearing on Thursday to provide specifics about why federal prosecutors had been dismissed, but he stuck to his past assertions that, although ineptly handled, the dismissals were justified and appropriate. Democrats at the hearing of the House Judiciary Committee tried but failed to elicit greater clarity about the specific reasons for removing each prosecutor. Mr. Gonzales offered little new information, repeating that his role in the dismissals had been limited. Representative John Conyers Jr., Democrat of Michigan and chairman of the panel, seemed to voice the most frustration over Mr. Gonzales’s testimony, saying, “Tell us, just tell us how the U.S. attorney termination list came to be, and who suggested putting most of these on the list and why.” Mr. Gonzales repeated his assertion that the list represented “the consensus recommendation of the senior leadership of the department.” “O.K., in other words, you don’t know,” Mr. Conyers said. Mr. Gonzales signaled at the outset of the hearing that there would be few bombshells. He said that since he testified three weeks ago at a Senate Judiciary Committee hearing, “My feelings and recollections about this matter haven’t changed.” Representative Linda T. Sanchez, the California Democrat who has led the House inquiry, expressed frustration over the inability of the Justice Department to fully explain the dismissals. Ms. Sanchez said Congressional investigators had interviewed most of the Justice Department officials involved, but, she said, “not one has been able to recall or take responsibility for how and why these U.S. attorneys were added to the firing list.” on the House committee were more supportive of Mr. Gonzales than their counterparts in the Senate, where some Republicans were scathingly critical after his testimony there. Several House Republicans asked no questions about the dismissals, instead praising Mr. Gonzales’s performance or quizzing him on issues like illegal , copyright policy, computer crime and terrorism. of Texas, the ranking Republican on the panel, said, “As we have gone forward, the list of accusations has grown, but the evidence of genuine wrongdoing has not.” Mr. Smith added, “If there are no fish in this lake, we should reel in our lines of questions, dock our empty boat and turn to more pressing issues.” Mr. Gonzales at times expressed contrition for his mishandling of the dismissals, including his earlier misstatements about the process, but insisted that the action was appropriate. “What I have concluded is that although the process was not as rigorous or as structured as it should have been, and while reasonable people might decide things differently, my decision to ask for the resignations of these U.S. attorneys was not based on improper reasons and therefore the decision should stand.” Several Democrats questioned Mr. Gonzales’s credibility. Representative , Democrat of New York, asked how people could have confidence in his management when he was unable to answer questions about the specific United States attorneys and why they were dismissed. “Look at the record of the department,” Mr. Gonzales said, expressing a flash of annoyance that broke with his otherwise resolute demeanor. “Look at the record of the department.” “That doesn’t answer the question,” Mr. Nadler replied. Several Democrats asked Mr. Gonzales about news reports that a ninth United States attorney, Todd P. Graves, had been pushed to resign his post in Kansas City, Mo. Mr. Graves said in interviews that he had been forced out by Justice Department officials in March 2006. Mr. Gonzales denied that Mr. Graves had been removed as part of the process supervised by his former chief of staff, D. Kyle Sampson, which resulted in the removal of eight other prosecutors. But Mr. Graves was asked to resign after his name was placed on a Justice Department list in January 2006. It is not publicly known why Mr. Graves was asked to resign, but he had disagreed with a voting rights lawsuit that Justice Department officials wanted to bring in his district against the State of Missouri. Democrats viewed the lawsuit as a Republican effort to remove the poor and elderly from the voting rolls. Mr. Gonzales said he had consulted Thursday with officials at the department’s civil rights division and had been told that the case had nothing to do with the decision to seek Mr. Graves’s resignation. “We aren’t aware of any concerns that existed in that office with respect to this particular case” he said. After Mr. Graves refused to agree to the litigation, a lawsuit was authorized by Bradley J. Schlozman, the acting chief of the civil rights unit in Washington, a division of the department that Democrats have accused of advocating Republican causes. Later, Mr. Gonzales named Mr. Schlozman as Mr. Graves’s temporary successor. Mr. Schlozman has since returned to Justice Department headquarters. More Articles in Washington &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. THE OUSTED PROSECUTORS: NEWS ANALYSIS; On a Very Hot Seat With Little Cover And Less Support 'NOTHING TO HIDE,' GONZALES INSISTS BEFORE HEARING For Gonzales, More Records, And Questions Suspensions, Dismissals and Resignations More Articles in Washington &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/us/11dallas.html	New Mayor but Familiar Issues on Dallas&#8217;s Horizon - New York Times New Mayor but Familiar Issues on Dallas’s Horizon Mark Graham for The New York Times Dallas, long troubled by crime, scandals, racial polarization and government gridlock, as seen across wetlands in the Trinity River project. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 DALLAS — The $69 margarita at N9NE Steakhouse in Ross Perot Jr.’s $3 billion Victory Park development is not the most expensive drink in town, but it is one way of toasting the better times that some see ahead for a long-struggling Big D. Skip to next paragraph Mark Graham for The New York Times Mayor Laura Miller is leaving office. “This is our version of Rodeo Drive,” said Mr. Perot, son of the software entrepreneur and 1992 presidential candidate, showing off his Riviera of boutiques on 75 acres of hotel towers, condos and clubs alongside his American Airlines Center, the sports arena near downtown, in what was, until 1998, a polluted brownfield of rusting railyards and industrial plants. Now the question is who will lead a resurgent Dallas. After five turbulent years, Laura Miller, perhaps the nation’s only investigative reporter turned big-city mayor, is not running again, setting off a wild scramble to head the nation’s ninth-largest metropolis, long troubled by crime, scandals, racial polarization and government gridlock. In an interview at City Hall, Ms. Miller, 48, voiced pride at the forest of construction cranes, the flowering of the arts district, and her partly successful fight against new coal-fired power plants in Texas. But she said: “I’m done with politics. I don’t particularly like it.” It was especially difficult, she said, for someone who had made her living “skewering” people to join them later at the council table. Ms. Miller’s exit leaves 12 candidates, including one under federal investigation, vying for mayor in the election on May 12. A June 16 runoff is likely. Upping the ante, a petition war is raging over the future of one of Dallas’s biggest public works projects ever — a 10,000-acre greenbelt along the Trinity River that could hold a dozen Central Parks, along with a toll road that critics say is larger than ever envisioned when voters approved a $246 million bond issue nearly a decade ago. If anything, said Ms. Miller, a champion of the project, battling for her legacy would be reason to run for a second full four-year term. (She finished the last year of her mayoral predecessor, Ron Kirk, when he left to run, unsuccessfully, for the But Ms. Miller, a mother of three, explained her decision by saying, “I’m not running because my 16-year-old daughter sat me down and said, ‘If you’re running again — and it looks like you’re running again, Mom—you will be throwing the towel in on all of us.’ ” With that, Ms. Miller said, “she started crying and I started crying — and that’s why I’m not running again.” She and her husband, Steve Wolens, a former state representative, also have a younger daughter and son. She might also have faced a tough re-election fight. For all the gloss of a Victory Park, there is also Deep Ellum, the once-vibrant blues district that has proved a graveyard of renewal hopes — “It’s just looking worse and worse all the time,” said Gianna Madrini, a fashion videographer who heads the neighborhood association — and a federal lawsuit is challenging the city’s restrictions on feeding the homeless in public. Ms. Miller’s retirement, announced last year, threw the race for mayor wide open, drawing among others, three business executives, Thomas C. Leppert, David Samuel Coats and Max Wells, widely regarded as front-runners; and a four-term councilman, Don Hill, a leader of African-Americans in city government who often clashed with Ms. Miller but now offers grudging praise. “It’s not how you start but how you finish,” Mr. Hill said, “and she’s finishing better than she started.” But Mr. Hill, the mayor pro tem, has been under the cloud of a federal investigation for two years since tapes leaked from an undercover operation revealed a developer’s negotiating a $50,000 payoff with a lawyer and contractors seeking Mr. Hill’s support for a commercial development. No charges have been brought against Mr. Hill, who was not heard on the tapes made public and who has denied any wrongdoing. “It’s been two years after the furor, the circus and the pressure, and I would like for them to clear my name,” Mr. Hill said in an interview at his campaign headquarters. The F.B.I. has not commented on the investigation. The corruption inquiry and leaks have deepened longstanding tensions among blacks in South Dallas, which has historically been shortchanged on development projects, schools and city services. Resentments have festered since Ms. Miller pressured the city manager to fire Dallas’s first African-American police chief after a scandal involving a drug-frame-up in 2003 before mobilizing the City Council to oust the city manager as well. Ms. Miller said that proved her dedication to good government. “If I had been a politician,” she said, “I never would have touched it.” Gretel C. Kovach contributed reporting. More Articles in National &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Bloomberg Invites Other Mayors to Town to Discuss Gun Crime Heady Days of J.R. and Landry Are History in Humbled Dallas National Briefing | Southwest: Texas: Effort To Recall Mayor Falls Short Ex-Journalist Wins Runoff for Dallas Mayor More Articles in National &#x00bb; A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/us/11debris.html?ex=1336536000&en=e917b4ee7a21e653&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard - New York Times Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Experts say that today&#146;s do-it-yourself mentality, in part, leads many people, like this driver in Burlington, Ontario, to haul large items. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 SAN FRANCISCO, May 9 — It was just another rush hour. On eastbound Interstate 580 near Pleasanton recently, a rocking chair brought traffic to a near-standstill, while on southbound I-680 near Walnut Creek, a trampoline blocked two left lanes, wreaking havoc on the morning commute. Bagged loaves of sourdough bread blocked U.S. 101, near Petaluma. The highway patrol had to be dispatched. Skip to next paragraph An Average Mile of Litter Video: 'City of Trash' Public Service Announcement On the set of a commercial for a &#147;secure your load&#148; campaign in Washington State, staff members photographed an improperly loaded truck. Last month, a plastic sink was on the loose, stretched across two lanes of the San Mateo Bridge. The sink was something of a departure from the mattresses, aluminum ladders, sofas, buckets — with the occasional spilled Napa County grapes thrown in — that snarled traffic and contributed to the state’s daily accumulation of road debris. While by no means unique to California, pickup trucks and other vehicles piled high with improperly secured loads are a fact of life here, contributing — thanks to the laws of physics — to an estimated 140,000 cubic yards of road debris a year. That is enough to fill 8,750 garbage trucks, which would extend for 45 miles, said Tamie McGowen, a spokeswoman for Caltrans, the state transportation department. And it is increasingly hazardous, experts say. In California, 155 people lost their lives in the last two years after accidents involving objects on highways, and states are beginning to address the issue. Next week, a murder trial is set to begin in the death of a Los Angeles county deputy sheriff who was killed when he swerved to avoid a stolen stove that had fallen from a Long Beach man’s truck. In California and across the nation, where some freeway shoulders have come to resemble weekend yard sales, the nature of road debris has changed, and litter anthropologists are now studying the phenomenon. Where “deliberate” litter used to reign — those blithely tossed fast-food wrappers and the like — “unintentional” or “negligent” litter from poorly secured loads is making its presence felt. Steven R. Stein, a litter analyst for R. W. Beck, a waste-consulting firm in Maryland, attributes the change to more trash-hauling vehicles, including recycling trucks, and the ubiquity of pickup trucks on the country’s highways. In 1986, Mr. Stein said, two-thirds of the debris was deliberate, but surveys now show the litter seesaw balanced. He said the two most recent surveys indicated a further increase in unintentional litter. In Georgia, which recently quantified its litter, 66 percent of road debris comes from unintentional litter, largely unsecured loads. A study in Tennessee last year showed that 70 percent of the state’s debris was unintentional. By dint of its climate, size, population, lengthy growing season, increasingly long commutes and, perhaps, its casual lifestyle, California is a road-debris leader. It is also home to the country’s largest number of registered vehicles — 32 million, twice that of No. 2 Texas — and roughly four million pickup trucks, the most of any state, according to the Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers in Washington. No other state spends more on litter removal, in excess of $55 million, said Christine Flowers-Ewing, the executive director of Keep California Beautiful, a nonprofit environmental education organization. Motorists in California can be fined if anything other than feathers from live birds or water should escape. (In Nebraska, the exception is corn stalks; in Kentucky, coal.) Along with mudslides, brush fires and earthquakes, chance encounters with a set of box springs, a chintz cushion or a crate of lettuces are the daily stuff of radio traffic updates, recounted in excruciating detail. When a tractor-trailer full of freeze-dried oriental soup and vegetables spilled onto the I-710 freeway near Los Angeles, for example, “there was one from Column A, and one from Columns B and C,” said Peter Demetriou, a veteran traffic reporter for KFWB radio in Los Angeles. “The only problem was, it was Lane 1, Lane 2 and Lane 3.” Greg Williams, who has worked for the California Highway Patrol in Bakersfield for 27 years, cited a carrot truck spill in the fog on State Highway 84 as his worst case. “In cities, we chase furniture; in rural areas it’s cattle, sheep, horses, buckets and nails,” Mr. Williams said. “There’s nothing slipperier than a crushed carrot.” More Articles in National &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. California: Request to Toughen Truck Drivers&#8217; Rules National Briefing | West: California: Radio Show Pulled After Contest Death Death Rate on Highways Rises, and Motorcycles Are Blamed More Articles in National &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/us/politics/11romney.html	Romney Works to Put Skeptics&#8217; Doubts to Rest - New York Times Romney Works to Put Skeptics’ Doubts to Rest David Lieneman for The New York Times Republican presidential hopeful Mitt Romney greets potential supporters in Clear Lake, Iowa. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 AMES, Iowa, May 10 — Bart Pals, a county chairman for ’s presidential campaign, had been given talking points to use when he introduced the former Massachusetts governor at an event in northern Iowa on Wednesday. Skip to next paragraph Times Topics: Mitt Romney The latest political news from around the nation. But Mr. Pals chose to depart from the script to assert that Mr. Romney’s shift in recent years against was not a “flip-flop” but the result of a “thoughtful moral process.” He also told the crowd in Clear Lake that he was not turned off by Mr. Romney’s Mormonism. “My concern is that he has a moral compass,” said Mr. Pals, 48, “and his moral compass is pointing in the same direction as mine.” Mr. Pals’s conclusion may have been encouraging to Mr. Romney. But the fact that he felt compelled to defend Mr. Romney when it comes to abortion and religion only underscored the challenge Mr. Romney faces as he courts conservative voters in politically significant states like Iowa. In national polls, Mr. Romney is still sometimes in single digits. But his more immediate problem, given his need to do well among Republican primary voters in the first contests early next year, may be the continued concerns of many conservative Christians about his religion — some evangelicals view Mormonism as something akin to a cult — and his relatively recent shift from supporter of abortion rights to opponent. Mr. Romney is also encountering questions about whether, as a governor with little foreign policy experience, he has sufficient national security credentials to reassure voters of his ability to be commander in chief at a time when the war in Iraq and the threat of terrorism are overriding issues. Even his signature achievement as governor, the creation of a health care program intended to cover nearly every resident in Massachusetts, has left some conservatives wondering about Mr. Romney’s commitment to small government. Still, the increasingly unsettled state of the Republican field has given him his best chance yet to make progress. He received generally positive reviews in the first Republican debate last week. He has shown he can raise substantial sums of money to finance his bid. He has put together an experienced staff and has begun an effort to reach out to evangelicals in Iowa, South Carolina and other states where social conservatives are an influential voting bloc. And he has an opportunity to capitalize on the problems afflicting his main competitors, former Mayor of New York and Senator “There are times when you have updrafts, and there are times when there are downdrafts,” Mr. Romney said in an interview. “This is an updraft for me.” In particular, the renewed focus on Mr. Giuliani’s longstanding support for abortion rights, combined with suspicions among some conservatives about Mr. McCain’s ideological reliability, has given Mr. Romney an opening to convince them that he is their true champion in this election. His crowds of several hundred on Wednesday in Iowa were among the largest he has had, and interviews with several social conservative leaders suggested he is making some inroads. But there were also indications that he still faces skepticism. Tamara Scott, who heads the Iowa chapter of Concerned Women for America, a conservative Christian group, said the focus among many evangelicals seems to be moving beyond theological differences. “When people come up and just want to discuss it with you, his flip-flopping is more what I hear,” Ms. Scott said. Even among evangelicals who say they are at least willing to consider Mr. Romney, support in many cases appears to be shaky. Larry Gordon, senior pastor of Cornerstone World Outreach in Sioux City, said his initial instinct was to rule out Mr. Romney because of his faith. But after his son, who is also a pastor at the church, came away impressed by Mr. Romney after an event, he began to examine him more closely. “If nobody better comes along, I’m going to vote for him,” Mr. Gordon said. “But I’m hoping somebody better comes along.” It is still not clear whether the problems that Mr. Romney, Mr. McCain and Mr. Giuliani face might tempt former Senator , the former House speaker, into the race, or allow another of the declared Republican candidates a shot at the nomination. But for now, Mr. Romney is trying to take full advantage of a moment in which many seem willing to shop around. As evidence that his campaign is gaining strength, Mr. Romney and his aides cited a recent New Hampshire poll that showed him leading in the state, although rival campaigns have challenged the accuracy of the survey. They also pointed to a new poll in Michigan, another early state, where Mr. Romney grew up, which shows him leading there as well. He made his first appearance last week on “The Tonight Show” with . Mr. Romney is also on the cover of the new Time magazine, scheduled to hit newsstands on Friday, and will be the subject of a feature on “60 Minutes” on Sunday. He tweaked his stump speech this week in what appeared to be a fresh attempt to distinguish himself from Mr. McCain and Mr. Giuliani on social issues. In Iowa, Mr. Romney introduced to audiences the metaphor of a three-legged stool, reflecting what he described as core conservative Republican principles: “strong military, strong economy, strong families.” “In my view, you’ve got to talk about all three for the Republican stool to stand,” he said. “Two won’t hold it up.” Beyond trying to gain an advantage on social issues, he is emphasizing that he would have a muscular approach to national security. He highlights his successful business career to make a case that he knows how to manage the economy. And he is taking a conservative stance on , opposing a path to citizenship for illegal immigrants, an issue that could prove troublesome for Mr. McCain, who worked for such a route in the Senate last year. Mr. Romney mounted a new advertisement recently in Iowa, New Hampshire and on national cable networks that plays up his call to increase the size of the military. Another commercial that features him wielding his veto pen in Massachusetts continues to run nationally. Mr. McCain and Mr. Giuliani have not yet rolled out any commercials. In his continued courtship of evangelical voters, Mr. Romney’s campaign is dispatching Mark DeMoss, an evangelical publicist whose clients include the Rev. Franklin Graham, the son of the Rev. , and Jay Sekulow, a prominent evangelical activist and lawyer, to meet with conservative Christian leaders in South Carolina, Iowa and elsewhere. Mr. DeMoss had his first meetings with evangelical pastors in Greenville, S.C., on Wednesday. The pastors appeared receptive and some were even enthusiastic, he said, but most continue to hold back from public support. “The idea of an evangelical supporting a Mormon for president, it’s a new idea,” he said. “This scenario has never presented itself before. And because of that, and because of the theological issues that some people have raised, I think a lot of evangelicals are just approaching this very cautiously.” Mr. Romney’s basic strategy is to try to use strong showings in the early voting primary states, many of which have large numbers of conservative voters, to slingshot him to the front of the Republican field. In a first step in that strategy, he and his aides are focusing on the straw poll here in August. It is a largely symbolic but potentially important contest that Mr. Giuliani has yet to decide whether to compete in. On Wednesday, Mr. Romney repeatedly called on audience members to attend the straw poll, which is “in 97 days,” adding with a wink, but “who’s counting?” More Articles in National &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Romney Accuses Sharpton of a Bigoted Remark Set to Debate, G.O.P. Contenders Ponder What to Say About Bush Romney Says Rivals Changed Minds, Too McCain Replaces His Finance Director Just Before Official Tour to Declare Candidacy Presidential Election of 2008 More Articles in National &#x00bb; A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/us/11dallas.html?ex=1336536000&en=0212812bb6c94bc2&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	New Mayor but Familiar Issues on Dallas&#8217;s Horizon - New York Times New Mayor but Familiar Issues on Dallas’s Horizon Mark Graham for The New York Times Dallas, long troubled by crime, scandals, racial polarization and government gridlock, as seen across wetlands in the Trinity River project. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 DALLAS — The $69 margarita at N9NE Steakhouse in Ross Perot Jr.’s $3 billion Victory Park development is not the most expensive drink in town, but it is one way of toasting the better times that some see ahead for a long-struggling Big D. Skip to next paragraph Mark Graham for The New York Times Mayor Laura Miller is leaving office. “This is our version of Rodeo Drive,” said Mr. Perot, son of the software entrepreneur and 1992 presidential candidate, showing off his Riviera of boutiques on 75 acres of hotel towers, condos and clubs alongside his American Airlines Center, the sports arena near downtown, in what was, until 1998, a polluted brownfield of rusting railyards and industrial plants. Now the question is who will lead a resurgent Dallas. After five turbulent years, Laura Miller, perhaps the nation’s only investigative reporter turned big-city mayor, is not running again, setting off a wild scramble to head the nation’s ninth-largest metropolis, long troubled by crime, scandals, racial polarization and government gridlock. In an interview at City Hall, Ms. Miller, 48, voiced pride at the forest of construction cranes, the flowering of the arts district, and her partly successful fight against new coal-fired power plants in Texas. But she said: “I’m done with politics. I don’t particularly like it.” It was especially difficult, she said, for someone who had made her living “skewering” people to join them later at the council table. Ms. Miller’s exit leaves 12 candidates, including one under federal investigation, vying for mayor in the election on May 12. A June 16 runoff is likely. Upping the ante, a petition war is raging over the future of one of Dallas’s biggest public works projects ever — a 10,000-acre greenbelt along the Trinity River that could hold a dozen Central Parks, along with a toll road that critics say is larger than ever envisioned when voters approved a $246 million bond issue nearly a decade ago. If anything, said Ms. Miller, a champion of the project, battling for her legacy would be reason to run for a second full four-year term. (She finished the last year of her mayoral predecessor, Ron Kirk, when he left to run, unsuccessfully, for the But Ms. Miller, a mother of three, explained her decision by saying, “I’m not running because my 16-year-old daughter sat me down and said, ‘If you’re running again — and it looks like you’re running again, Mom—you will be throwing the towel in on all of us.’ ” With that, Ms. Miller said, “she started crying and I started crying — and that’s why I’m not running again.” She and her husband, Steve Wolens, a former state representative, also have a younger daughter and son. She might also have faced a tough re-election fight. For all the gloss of a Victory Park, there is also Deep Ellum, the once-vibrant blues district that has proved a graveyard of renewal hopes — “It’s just looking worse and worse all the time,” said Gianna Madrini, a fashion videographer who heads the neighborhood association — and a federal lawsuit is challenging the city’s restrictions on feeding the homeless in public. Ms. Miller’s retirement, announced last year, threw the race for mayor wide open, drawing among others, three business executives, Thomas C. Leppert, David Samuel Coats and Max Wells, widely regarded as front-runners; and a four-term councilman, Don Hill, a leader of African-Americans in city government who often clashed with Ms. Miller but now offers grudging praise. “It’s not how you start but how you finish,” Mr. Hill said, “and she’s finishing better than she started.” But Mr. Hill, the mayor pro tem, has been under the cloud of a federal investigation for two years since tapes leaked from an undercover operation revealed a developer’s negotiating a $50,000 payoff with a lawyer and contractors seeking Mr. Hill’s support for a commercial development. No charges have been brought against Mr. Hill, who was not heard on the tapes made public and who has denied any wrongdoing. “It’s been two years after the furor, the circus and the pressure, and I would like for them to clear my name,” Mr. Hill said in an interview at his campaign headquarters. The F.B.I. has not commented on the investigation. The corruption inquiry and leaks have deepened longstanding tensions among blacks in South Dallas, which has historically been shortchanged on development projects, schools and city services. Resentments have festered since Ms. Miller pressured the city manager to fire Dallas’s first African-American police chief after a scandal involving a drug-frame-up in 2003 before mobilizing the City Council to oust the city manager as well. Ms. Miller said that proved her dedication to good government. “If I had been a politician,” she said, “I never would have touched it.” Gretel C. Kovach contributed reporting. More Articles in National &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Bloomberg Invites Other Mayors to Town to Discuss Gun Crime Heady Days of J.R. and Landry Are History in Humbled Dallas National Briefing | Southwest: Texas: Effort To Recall Mayor Falls Short Ex-Journalist Wins Runoff for Dallas Mayor More Articles in National &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/pages/national/index.html?partner=rssnyt	National News - All Headlines - New York Times Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard By PATRICIA LEIGH BROWN Experts say that today&#146;s do-it-yourself mentality, in part, leads many people, like this driver in Burlington, Ontario, to haul large items. California is beginning to address the issue of deaths caused by accidents involving objects on highways. Wildfire Threatens a California Resort Island Firefighters struggled today to prevent a wildfire from reaching homes on the edge of Santa Catalina Island. Mixed Mood on Campus at Va. Tech Graduation Today, as parents arrived for graduation ceremonies, it was hard to tell the tears of joy from those of sadness. 6 Charged in Fort Dix Plot Held Without Bail The men, charged with plotting to attack Fort Dix, were arrested on Tuesday after a 15-month investigation. New Mayor but Familiar Issues on Dallas’s Horizon Twelve candidates are in a wild scramble to head the nation’s ninth-largest metropolis, long troubled by crime, scandals, racial polarization and government gridlock. F.D.A. Panel Seeks Limits on Cancer Patient Drugs Bowing to safety concerns, government medical advisers urged on Thursday that additional restrictions be put on the use of drugs that treat anemia in cancer patients. Romney Works to Put Skeptics’ Doubts to Rest Many conservative Christians are concerned about Mitt Romney’s religion and his recent shift on abortion rights. Democrats Push Gonzales on Attorney Dismissals Attorney General Alberto R. Gonzales stuck to his past assertions that the firings were appropriate. Men Apologize for Boston Cartoon Stunt Purdue Will Reinvestigate Its Professor Who Claimed Desktop Fusion U.S. Charges a Leading Chicago Political Figure With Fraud and Bribery Passage of Drug Safety Bill Was Common Goal for Two Very Different Senators Spellings Rejects Criticism on Student Loan Scandal Bush and Democrats in Accord on Labor Rights in Trade Deals Civil Liberties Advocate Named Ombudsman for Texas Youth Man Convicted in 1993 Restaurant Killings Dairy Council to End Ad Campaign That Linked Drinking Milk With Weight Loss Theodore Maiman, 79, Dies; Demonstrated First Laser Texas: Concern Over Buzzards Delays ‘Body Farm’ North Carolina: Immigrant Freed Over Demeaning Photograph California: Plan to Privatize Lottery California: Conviction in Secrets Case California: Ill Woman Is Dropping Marijuana Battle Washington: Whistle-Blower Ordered to Be Reinstated Names of the Dead Read profiles of the men and women killed in the shootings at Virginia Tech and share your thoughts and memories. : Recounting the Events at Virginia Tech A reconstruction of the shootings, with maps and diagrams of campus buildings. : Sex Offenders and Civil Commitment Civil commitment for sex offenders is gaining favor with lawmakers even as its stated purpose is almost never met. : Faces of the Dead An interactive look at the American service members who have died in Iraq. In Houston, Giuliani Defends Abortion Stance Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights On Carrier in Gulf, Cheney Warns Iran President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure House Passes Ban on Gifts From Student Lenders Harvard Task Force Calls for New Focus on Teaching and Not Just Research from the past 7 days enter keyword or date e.g. April 21, 2001 U.S. Queries Filmmaker on Cuba Trip for Movie By LAURA M. HOLSON The Treasury Department sent a letter to Michael Moore, a provocative filmmaker, to investigate whether he had violated restrictions on travel to Cuba. The Reach of War New York Times Polls Today in TimesSelect » Some parents of children with Down syndrome want prospective parents to know the positive side of raising a child with the genetic condition. Kunal Sah, 13, hopes that winning the Scripps National Spelling Bee will bring attention to the plight of his parents, who were deported to India. Julia Preston reports on how Maria Brizelda Amaya's family is coping with her deportation. Infant Mortality: A Legacy of Poverty Erik Eckholm reports on the intractable problem of infant mortality in poor Mississippi communities. News from AP &#x00bb; Armless, One - Legged Driver Leads Chase Va. Tech Graduations Honor Slain Victims Mysterious Object Probably Space Junk Knoxville Zoo Displays Albino Alligator Md. School Evacuated Over Odd Bottle Study Renews Debate Over Sows in Crates Find News By State Go to a State Page MOST POPULAR - U.S. Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Harvard Task Force Calls for New Focus on Teaching and Not Just Research Wildfire Threatens a California Resort Island New Mayor but Familiar Issues on Dallas&#8217;s Horizon Wildfire Threatens a Southern California Resort Island Europeans Press Wolfowitz to Quit as Bank Chief Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Purdue Will Reinvestigate Its Professor Who Claimed Desktop Fusion Wildfire Threatens a California Resort Island U.S. Queries Filmmaker on Cuba Trip for Movie Go to Complete List » Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus A Liberal Case for Gun Rights Helps Sway Judiciary Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix 6 Arrested in Plot to Attack Fort Dix Critic of Corps of Engineers Says Levee Repairs for New Orleans Show Signs of Flaws College Loan Official Resigns 50 Years Later, Little Rock Can't Escape Race Agency Affirms Mandates for Driver's Licenses Harvard Task Force Calls for New Focus on Teaching and Not Just Research Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Start your 30-day free trial of Times Reader today. Tell us your nursing story. Inspiration & lessons. Browse movie reviews from 1913. Get the latest business news Get up close to politics & more for $3.15 a week. The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/us/11moore.html	U.S. Queries Filmmaker on Cuba Trip for Movie - New York Times U.S. Queries Filmmaker on Cuba Trip for Movie Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 LOS ANGELES, May 10 — , the provocative filmmaker who has made a career out of skewering automakers, gun enthusiasts and the Bush administration, is being investigated by the Treasury Department over a trip he made to for his new film, “Sicko.” Skip to next paragraph Michael Moore is being investigated by the government. This month the department sent a letter to Mr. Moore saying it was investigating whether he had violated restrictions on travel to Cuba when he accompanied sick workers seeking free medical care as part of a documentary on America’s health care industry. Treasury Department representatives did not return phone calls seeking comment. On Mr. Moore’s Web site, the film’s producer, Meghan O’Hara, called the department’s actions a “politically motivated investigation.” The ailing workers shown traveling to Cuba in the film had helped clean up the World Trade Center site after the Sept. 11 attacks. The letter from the Treasury Department asked for detailed information about the trip, including evidence that Mr. Moore was employed as a journalist. Journalists can secure permission to go to Cuba. The government also sought the name and address of the travel agent who made the reservations, and receipts, and the names and addresses of all of those who went on the trip. News of the letter was first reported by The Associated Press. Chris Lehane, who was press secretary to Vice President and has been retained by the Weinstein Company, the film’s distributor, said the Treasury Department had been aware of the trip for a long time. “We feel comfortable with the terms with which we went to Cuba,” Mr. Lehane said. , a co-founder of the company, said the timing of the letter suggested an attack by the Bush administration meant to discredit the film. But Mr. Weinstein said: “They are only causing more publicity. It’s so ironic. They should let sleeping dogs lie.” He said he was concerned that the Treasury Department would try to prevent the part of the movie shot in Cuba from being shown. “We have the resources to fight,” he said. “Sicko” is set to open at the on May 19 and nationwide on June 29. If past behavior portends the future, Mr. Moore and his backers will most likely use the government inquiry to the film’s advantage. In May 2004, Mr. Moore and his agent, Ari Emanuel, went public with complaints that the Walt Disney Company was refusing to distribute the film “Fahrenheit 9/11,” causing a ruckus in Hollywood and Washington. The movie earned $220 million at the box office worldwide. More Articles in National &#x00bb; Explore TimesSelect with a no-risk 14-day free trial. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. 'Fahrenheit 9/11' on Cuba's Prime Time Judge Upholds Plan for Return Of Boy to Cuba More Articles in National &#x00bb; A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/health/11anemia.html?ex=1336536000&en=64815775ee883add&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	F.D.A. Panel Seeks Limits on Cancer Patient Drugs - New York Times Mental Health & Behavior F.D.A. Panel Seeks Limits on Cancer Patient Drugs Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 SILVER SPRING, Md., May 10 &#151; Bowing to safety concerns, government medical advisers urged on Thursday that additional restrictions be put on the use of drugs that treat The recommendations by an advisory committee to the Food and Drug Administration followed a flurry of studies suggesting that the drugs, meant to help patients cope with , might actually be making their cancer worse or hastening their deaths. The drugs &#151; Aranesp from Amgen and Procrit from Johnson &#38; Johnson &#151; are used by about a half-million American cancer patients a year and have billions of dollars in annual sales. Some members of the committee expressed shock that even though Procrit was first approved 14 years ago, it was still not clear if the drugs were safe at the doses typically used. &#8220;Yes, we have a burning question,&#8221; one panel member, Dr. Silvana Martino, an oncologist in Santa Monica, Calif., said at the meeting here. &#8220;Do these things kill people?&#8221; Most of the studies showing a risk involved use of the drugs at doses higher than doctors typically give them. That left the committee with the question of what to do about use of the drugs at the usual doses until more data become available. The F.D.A. has already clamped down on the drugs. In March it put strict new warnings on the labels, saying the products should be used at the smallest dosage that lets anemic patients avoid blood transfusions. But the panel&#8217;s votes Thursday portend even further restrictions. The committee voted 12 to 5, for instance, that the drugs should be barred from use by patients with certain types of cancer until more is known about their safety. While the committee did not specify which types, several members mentioned , non-small cell lung cancer and head and neck cancer. The committee voted 15 to 2 that there should be more restrictions in general if the drugs remain on the market, and 17 to 0 that more studies were needed. And it voted 16 to 1 that anemia therapy should be stopped when chemotherapy is finished. But in one victory for the drug makers, the committee voted 11 to 6 against lowering the ceiling on how much the anemia should be corrected. The labels now say that a patient&#8217;s hemoglobin, the oxygen-carrying component of red blood cells, should not be raised to more than 12 grams per deciliter of blood. The F.D.A. usually follows the recommendations of such panels. Dr. Richard Pazdur, director of the agency&#8217;s cancer drug division, said Thursday he could not say yet when or how the agency would act. The two drugs, along with another Amgen drug, Epogen, are also used to treat anemia caused by kidney disease, but yesterday&#8217;s meeting concerned only cancer treatment. Another hearing dealing with kidney disease will be held early in the fall. The panel&#8217;s recommendations were a particular blow to Amgen, which last year took in nearly half its $14.3 billion in revenue from the anemia drugs. Johnson &#38; Johnson is far larger and more diversified than Amgen, and so is less dependent on Procrit sales. &#8220;I think it&#8217;s worse than what investors expected,&#8221; Michael Aberman, an analyst who follows Amgen for Credit Suisse, said after the meeting. Amgen&#8217;s stock fell $5.77, or more than 9 percent, to close at $57.33. Trish Hawkins, an Amgen spokeswoman, said in a statement, &#8220;We will be working with the F.D.A. as they consider the committee&#8217;s recommendations.&#8221; The drugs, known generically as darbepoetin and epoetin, were approved to reduce the need for blood transfusions in patients with anemia from chemotherapy. Many doctors and patients believe the drugs fight fatigue and improve patients&#8217; daily lives, although the F.D.A. said it did not find studies with persuasive evidence of such benefits. A panel member from , Dr. Otis Brawley, said some doctors overprescribed the drugs because they made money from doing so. Doctors can sometimes receive more from insurers than they pay for the drugs, especially if they receive rebates from the manufacturers. Dr. Brawley said the drug companies had not done proper studies, and at one point asked them, &#8220;What data do you have to assure me that this is not Miracle-Gro for cancer?&#8221; The staff of the F.D.A. was also critical of the companies, saying they had not provided data they had promised when a similar advisory panel meeting was held in 2004. The companies and their advocates argued that ample data showed the drugs were safe when used properly, except for a long-known risk of increased blood clots. They also argued that the drugs had significant benefits. Forcing cancer patients to go back to transfusions, they said, would expose the patients to risks and inconvenience and further strain the nation&#8217;s already taxed blood supply. That sentiment was also voiced by some committee members. &#8220;I think the idea of going back to the dark ages in regards to supportive care is a step backward,&#8221; said Dr. S. Gail Eckhardt of the , the panel&#8217;s chairman. Advisory panel meetings often feature eloquent pleas from patients that a drug be approved or kept on the market. But there was not a big outpouring of support for the anemia drugs. In fact, some patients expressed dismay at how the drugs were used. &#8220;How is it possible that what was meant to help me might actually have made things worse?&#8221; said Lilla Romeo, who has had breast cancer since 1995. Next Article in Health (2 of 15) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. MARKET PLACE; Amgen Seeks To Reverse Its Bad News ImClone's Drug Fails in Pancreatic Cancer Study F.D.A. Approves Glaxo Cancer Drug Studies Show Anemia Drugs May Harm Cancer Patients Food and Drug Administration Next Article in Health (2 of 15) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » Everything you need to know about heart disease Hip resurfacing: is it right for you? The changing attitudes towards "chemo brain" Treating the awkward years Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/us/politics/11romney.html?ex=1336536000&en=da1fb47ed795d3f7&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Romney Works to Put Skeptics&#8217; Doubts to Rest - New York Times Romney Works to Put Skeptics’ Doubts to Rest David Lieneman for The New York Times Republican presidential hopeful Mitt Romney greets potential supporters in Clear Lake, Iowa. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 AMES, Iowa, May 10 — Bart Pals, a county chairman for ’s presidential campaign, had been given talking points to use when he introduced the former Massachusetts governor at an event in northern Iowa on Wednesday. Skip to next paragraph Times Topics: Mitt Romney The latest political news from around the nation. But Mr. Pals chose to depart from the script to assert that Mr. Romney’s shift in recent years against was not a “flip-flop” but the result of a “thoughtful moral process.” He also told the crowd in Clear Lake that he was not turned off by Mr. Romney’s Mormonism. “My concern is that he has a moral compass,” said Mr. Pals, 48, “and his moral compass is pointing in the same direction as mine.” Mr. Pals’s conclusion may have been encouraging to Mr. Romney. But the fact that he felt compelled to defend Mr. Romney when it comes to abortion and religion only underscored the challenge Mr. Romney faces as he courts conservative voters in politically significant states like Iowa. In national polls, Mr. Romney is still sometimes in single digits. But his more immediate problem, given his need to do well among Republican primary voters in the first contests early next year, may be the continued concerns of many conservative Christians about his religion — some evangelicals view Mormonism as something akin to a cult — and his relatively recent shift from supporter of abortion rights to opponent. Mr. Romney is also encountering questions about whether, as a governor with little foreign policy experience, he has sufficient national security credentials to reassure voters of his ability to be commander in chief at a time when the war in Iraq and the threat of terrorism are overriding issues. Even his signature achievement as governor, the creation of a health care program intended to cover nearly every resident in Massachusetts, has left some conservatives wondering about Mr. Romney’s commitment to small government. Still, the increasingly unsettled state of the Republican field has given him his best chance yet to make progress. He received generally positive reviews in the first Republican debate last week. He has shown he can raise substantial sums of money to finance his bid. He has put together an experienced staff and has begun an effort to reach out to evangelicals in Iowa, South Carolina and other states where social conservatives are an influential voting bloc. And he has an opportunity to capitalize on the problems afflicting his main competitors, former Mayor of New York and Senator “There are times when you have updrafts, and there are times when there are downdrafts,” Mr. Romney said in an interview. “This is an updraft for me.” In particular, the renewed focus on Mr. Giuliani’s longstanding support for abortion rights, combined with suspicions among some conservatives about Mr. McCain’s ideological reliability, has given Mr. Romney an opening to convince them that he is their true champion in this election. His crowds of several hundred on Wednesday in Iowa were among the largest he has had, and interviews with several social conservative leaders suggested he is making some inroads. But there were also indications that he still faces skepticism. Tamara Scott, who heads the Iowa chapter of Concerned Women for America, a conservative Christian group, said the focus among many evangelicals seems to be moving beyond theological differences. “When people come up and just want to discuss it with you, his flip-flopping is more what I hear,” Ms. Scott said. Even among evangelicals who say they are at least willing to consider Mr. Romney, support in many cases appears to be shaky. Larry Gordon, senior pastor of Cornerstone World Outreach in Sioux City, said his initial instinct was to rule out Mr. Romney because of his faith. But after his son, who is also a pastor at the church, came away impressed by Mr. Romney after an event, he began to examine him more closely. “If nobody better comes along, I’m going to vote for him,” Mr. Gordon said. “But I’m hoping somebody better comes along.” It is still not clear whether the problems that Mr. Romney, Mr. McCain and Mr. Giuliani face might tempt former Senator , the former House speaker, into the race, or allow another of the declared Republican candidates a shot at the nomination. But for now, Mr. Romney is trying to take full advantage of a moment in which many seem willing to shop around. As evidence that his campaign is gaining strength, Mr. Romney and his aides cited a recent New Hampshire poll that showed him leading in the state, although rival campaigns have challenged the accuracy of the survey. They also pointed to a new poll in Michigan, another early state, where Mr. Romney grew up, which shows him leading there as well. He made his first appearance last week on “The Tonight Show” with . Mr. Romney is also on the cover of the new Time magazine, scheduled to hit newsstands on Friday, and will be the subject of a feature on “60 Minutes” on Sunday. He tweaked his stump speech this week in what appeared to be a fresh attempt to distinguish himself from Mr. McCain and Mr. Giuliani on social issues. In Iowa, Mr. Romney introduced to audiences the metaphor of a three-legged stool, reflecting what he described as core conservative Republican principles: “strong military, strong economy, strong families.” “In my view, you’ve got to talk about all three for the Republican stool to stand,” he said. “Two won’t hold it up.” Beyond trying to gain an advantage on social issues, he is emphasizing that he would have a muscular approach to national security. He highlights his successful business career to make a case that he knows how to manage the economy. And he is taking a conservative stance on , opposing a path to citizenship for illegal immigrants, an issue that could prove troublesome for Mr. McCain, who worked for such a route in the Senate last year. Mr. Romney mounted a new advertisement recently in Iowa, New Hampshire and on national cable networks that plays up his call to increase the size of the military. Another commercial that features him wielding his veto pen in Massachusetts continues to run nationally. Mr. McCain and Mr. Giuliani have not yet rolled out any commercials. In his continued courtship of evangelical voters, Mr. Romney’s campaign is dispatching Mark DeMoss, an evangelical publicist whose clients include the Rev. Franklin Graham, the son of the Rev. , and Jay Sekulow, a prominent evangelical activist and lawyer, to meet with conservative Christian leaders in South Carolina, Iowa and elsewhere. Mr. DeMoss had his first meetings with evangelical pastors in Greenville, S.C., on Wednesday. The pastors appeared receptive and some were even enthusiastic, he said, but most continue to hold back from public support. “The idea of an evangelical supporting a Mormon for president, it’s a new idea,” he said. “This scenario has never presented itself before. And because of that, and because of the theological issues that some people have raised, I think a lot of evangelicals are just approaching this very cautiously.” Mr. Romney’s basic strategy is to try to use strong showings in the early voting primary states, many of which have large numbers of conservative voters, to slingshot him to the front of the Republican field. In a first step in that strategy, he and his aides are focusing on the straw poll here in August. It is a largely symbolic but potentially important contest that Mr. Giuliani has yet to decide whether to compete in. On Wednesday, Mr. Romney repeatedly called on audience members to attend the straw poll, which is “in 97 days,” adding with a wink, but “who’s counting?” More Articles in National &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Romney Accuses Sharpton of a Bigoted Remark Set to Debate, G.O.P. Contenders Ponder What to Say About Bush Romney Says Rivals Changed Minds, Too McCain Replaces His Finance Director Just Before Official Tour to Declare Candidacy Presidential Election of 2008 More Articles in National &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/us/11moore.html?ex=1336536000&en=9503e2bbca21dcd7&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	U.S. Queries Filmmaker on Cuba Trip for Movie - New York Times U.S. Queries Filmmaker on Cuba Trip for Movie Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 LOS ANGELES, May 10 — , the provocative filmmaker who has made a career out of skewering automakers, gun enthusiasts and the Bush administration, is being investigated by the Treasury Department over a trip he made to for his new film, “Sicko.” Skip to next paragraph Michael Moore is being investigated by the government. This month the department sent a letter to Mr. Moore saying it was investigating whether he had violated restrictions on travel to Cuba when he accompanied sick workers seeking free medical care as part of a documentary on America’s health care industry. Treasury Department representatives did not return phone calls seeking comment. On Mr. Moore’s Web site, the film’s producer, Meghan O’Hara, called the department’s actions a “politically motivated investigation.” The ailing workers shown traveling to Cuba in the film had helped clean up the World Trade Center site after the Sept. 11 attacks. The letter from the Treasury Department asked for detailed information about the trip, including evidence that Mr. Moore was employed as a journalist. Journalists can secure permission to go to Cuba. The government also sought the name and address of the travel agent who made the reservations, and receipts, and the names and addresses of all of those who went on the trip. News of the letter was first reported by The Associated Press. Chris Lehane, who was press secretary to Vice President and has been retained by the Weinstein Company, the film’s distributor, said the Treasury Department had been aware of the trip for a long time. “We feel comfortable with the terms with which we went to Cuba,” Mr. Lehane said. , a co-founder of the company, said the timing of the letter suggested an attack by the Bush administration meant to discredit the film. But Mr. Weinstein said: “They are only causing more publicity. It’s so ironic. They should let sleeping dogs lie.” He said he was concerned that the Treasury Department would try to prevent the part of the movie shot in Cuba from being shown. “We have the resources to fight,” he said. “Sicko” is set to open at the on May 19 and nationwide on June 29. If past behavior portends the future, Mr. Moore and his backers will most likely use the government inquiry to the film’s advantage. In May 2004, Mr. Moore and his agent, Ari Emanuel, went public with complaints that the Walt Disney Company was refusing to distribute the film “Fahrenheit 9/11,” causing a ruckus in Hollywood and Washington. The movie earned $220 million at the box office worldwide. More Articles in National &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. 'Fahrenheit 9/11' on Cuba's Prime Time Judge Upholds Plan for Return Of Boy to Cuba More Articles in National &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/health/11anemia.html	F.D.A. Panel Seeks Limits on Cancer Patient Drugs - New York Times Mental Health & Behavior F.D.A. Panel Seeks Limits on Cancer Patient Drugs Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 SILVER SPRING, Md., May 10 &#151; Bowing to safety concerns, government medical advisers urged on Thursday that additional restrictions be put on the use of drugs that treat The recommendations by an advisory committee to the Food and Drug Administration followed a flurry of studies suggesting that the drugs, meant to help patients cope with , might actually be making their cancer worse or hastening their deaths. The drugs &#151; Aranesp from Amgen and Procrit from Johnson &#38; Johnson &#151; are used by about a half-million American cancer patients a year and have billions of dollars in annual sales. Some members of the committee expressed shock that even though Procrit was first approved 14 years ago, it was still not clear if the drugs were safe at the doses typically used. &#8220;Yes, we have a burning question,&#8221; one panel member, Dr. Silvana Martino, an oncologist in Santa Monica, Calif., said at the meeting here. &#8220;Do these things kill people?&#8221; Most of the studies showing a risk involved use of the drugs at doses higher than doctors typically give them. That left the committee with the question of what to do about use of the drugs at the usual doses until more data become available. The F.D.A. has already clamped down on the drugs. In March it put strict new warnings on the labels, saying the products should be used at the smallest dosage that lets anemic patients avoid blood transfusions. But the panel&#8217;s votes Thursday portend even further restrictions. The committee voted 12 to 5, for instance, that the drugs should be barred from use by patients with certain types of cancer until more is known about their safety. While the committee did not specify which types, several members mentioned , non-small cell lung cancer and head and neck cancer. The committee voted 15 to 2 that there should be more restrictions in general if the drugs remain on the market, and 17 to 0 that more studies were needed. And it voted 16 to 1 that anemia therapy should be stopped when chemotherapy is finished. But in one victory for the drug makers, the committee voted 11 to 6 against lowering the ceiling on how much the anemia should be corrected. The labels now say that a patient&#8217;s hemoglobin, the oxygen-carrying component of red blood cells, should not be raised to more than 12 grams per deciliter of blood. The F.D.A. usually follows the recommendations of such panels. Dr. Richard Pazdur, director of the agency&#8217;s cancer drug division, said Thursday he could not say yet when or how the agency would act. The two drugs, along with another Amgen drug, Epogen, are also used to treat anemia caused by kidney disease, but yesterday&#8217;s meeting concerned only cancer treatment. Another hearing dealing with kidney disease will be held early in the fall. The panel&#8217;s recommendations were a particular blow to Amgen, which last year took in nearly half its $14.3 billion in revenue from the anemia drugs. Johnson &#38; Johnson is far larger and more diversified than Amgen, and so is less dependent on Procrit sales. &#8220;I think it&#8217;s worse than what investors expected,&#8221; Michael Aberman, an analyst who follows Amgen for Credit Suisse, said after the meeting. Amgen&#8217;s stock fell $5.77, or more than 9 percent, to close at $57.33. Trish Hawkins, an Amgen spokeswoman, said in a statement, &#8220;We will be working with the F.D.A. as they consider the committee&#8217;s recommendations.&#8221; The drugs, known generically as darbepoetin and epoetin, were approved to reduce the need for blood transfusions in patients with anemia from chemotherapy. Many doctors and patients believe the drugs fight fatigue and improve patients&#8217; daily lives, although the F.D.A. said it did not find studies with persuasive evidence of such benefits. A panel member from , Dr. Otis Brawley, said some doctors overprescribed the drugs because they made money from doing so. Doctors can sometimes receive more from insurers than they pay for the drugs, especially if they receive rebates from the manufacturers. Dr. Brawley said the drug companies had not done proper studies, and at one point asked them, &#8220;What data do you have to assure me that this is not Miracle-Gro for cancer?&#8221; The staff of the F.D.A. was also critical of the companies, saying they had not provided data they had promised when a similar advisory panel meeting was held in 2004. The companies and their advocates argued that ample data showed the drugs were safe when used properly, except for a long-known risk of increased blood clots. They also argued that the drugs had significant benefits. Forcing cancer patients to go back to transfusions, they said, would expose the patients to risks and inconvenience and further strain the nation&#8217;s already taxed blood supply. That sentiment was also voiced by some committee members. &#8220;I think the idea of going back to the dark ages in regards to supportive care is a step backward,&#8221; said Dr. S. Gail Eckhardt of the , the panel&#8217;s chairman. Advisory panel meetings often feature eloquent pleas from patients that a drug be approved or kept on the market. But there was not a big outpouring of support for the anemia drugs. In fact, some patients expressed dismay at how the drugs were used. &#8220;How is it possible that what was meant to help me might actually have made things worse?&#8221; said Lilla Romeo, who has had breast cancer since 1995. Next Article in Health (2 of 15) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. MARKET PLACE; Amgen Seeks To Reverse Its Bad News ImClone's Drug Fails in Pancreatic Cancer Study F.D.A. Approves Glaxo Cancer Drug Studies Show Anemia Drugs May Harm Cancer Patients Food and Drug Administration Next Article in Health (2 of 15) &#x00bb; Everything you need to know about heart disease Hip resurfacing: is it right for you? The changing attitudes towards "chemo brain" Treating the awkward years Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/washington/11gonzales.html	Democrats Push Gonzales on Attorney Dismissals - New York Times Democrats Push Gonzales on Attorney Dismissals Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 WASHINGTON, May 10 — House Democrats pressed Attorney General at a hearing on Thursday to provide specifics about why federal prosecutors had been dismissed, but he stuck to his past assertions that, although ineptly handled, the dismissals were justified and appropriate. Democrats at the hearing of the House Judiciary Committee tried but failed to elicit greater clarity about the specific reasons for removing each prosecutor. Mr. Gonzales offered little new information, repeating that his role in the dismissals had been limited. Representative John Conyers Jr., Democrat of Michigan and chairman of the panel, seemed to voice the most frustration over Mr. Gonzales’s testimony, saying, “Tell us, just tell us how the U.S. attorney termination list came to be, and who suggested putting most of these on the list and why.” Mr. Gonzales repeated his assertion that the list represented “the consensus recommendation of the senior leadership of the department.” “O.K., in other words, you don’t know,” Mr. Conyers said. Mr. Gonzales signaled at the outset of the hearing that there would be few bombshells. He said that since he testified three weeks ago at a Senate Judiciary Committee hearing, “My feelings and recollections about this matter haven’t changed.” Representative Linda T. Sanchez, the California Democrat who has led the House inquiry, expressed frustration over the inability of the Justice Department to fully explain the dismissals. Ms. Sanchez said Congressional investigators had interviewed most of the Justice Department officials involved, but, she said, “not one has been able to recall or take responsibility for how and why these U.S. attorneys were added to the firing list.” on the House committee were more supportive of Mr. Gonzales than their counterparts in the Senate, where some Republicans were scathingly critical after his testimony there. Several House Republicans asked no questions about the dismissals, instead praising Mr. Gonzales’s performance or quizzing him on issues like illegal , copyright policy, computer crime and terrorism. of Texas, the ranking Republican on the panel, said, “As we have gone forward, the list of accusations has grown, but the evidence of genuine wrongdoing has not.” Mr. Smith added, “If there are no fish in this lake, we should reel in our lines of questions, dock our empty boat and turn to more pressing issues.” Mr. Gonzales at times expressed contrition for his mishandling of the dismissals, including his earlier misstatements about the process, but insisted that the action was appropriate. “What I have concluded is that although the process was not as rigorous or as structured as it should have been, and while reasonable people might decide things differently, my decision to ask for the resignations of these U.S. attorneys was not based on improper reasons and therefore the decision should stand.” Several Democrats questioned Mr. Gonzales’s credibility. Representative , Democrat of New York, asked how people could have confidence in his management when he was unable to answer questions about the specific United States attorneys and why they were dismissed. “Look at the record of the department,” Mr. Gonzales said, expressing a flash of annoyance that broke with his otherwise resolute demeanor. “Look at the record of the department.” “That doesn’t answer the question,” Mr. Nadler replied. Several Democrats asked Mr. Gonzales about news reports that a ninth United States attorney, Todd P. Graves, had been pushed to resign his post in Kansas City, Mo. Mr. Graves said in interviews that he had been forced out by Justice Department officials in March 2006. Mr. Gonzales denied that Mr. Graves had been removed as part of the process supervised by his former chief of staff, D. Kyle Sampson, which resulted in the removal of eight other prosecutors. But Mr. Graves was asked to resign after his name was placed on a Justice Department list in January 2006. It is not publicly known why Mr. Graves was asked to resign, but he had disagreed with a voting rights lawsuit that Justice Department officials wanted to bring in his district against the State of Missouri. Democrats viewed the lawsuit as a Republican effort to remove the poor and elderly from the voting rolls. Mr. Gonzales said he had consulted Thursday with officials at the department’s civil rights division and had been told that the case had nothing to do with the decision to seek Mr. Graves’s resignation. “We aren’t aware of any concerns that existed in that office with respect to this particular case” he said. After Mr. Graves refused to agree to the litigation, a lawsuit was authorized by Bradley J. Schlozman, the acting chief of the civil rights unit in Washington, a division of the department that Democrats have accused of advocating Republican causes. Later, Mr. Gonzales named Mr. Schlozman as Mr. Graves’s temporary successor. Mr. Schlozman has since returned to Justice Department headquarters. More Articles in Washington &#x00bb; Start your 14-day free trial to TimesSelect To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. THE OUSTED PROSECUTORS: NEWS ANALYSIS; On a Very Hot Seat With Little Cover And Less Support 'NOTHING TO HIDE,' GONZALES INSISTS BEFORE HEARING For Gonzales, More Records, And Questions Suspensions, Dismissals and Resignations More Articles in Washington &#x00bb; A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/us/11debris.html	Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard - New York Times Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Experts say that today&#146;s do-it-yourself mentality, in part, leads many people, like this driver in Burlington, Ontario, to haul large items. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 SAN FRANCISCO, May 9 — It was just another rush hour. On eastbound Interstate 580 near Pleasanton recently, a rocking chair brought traffic to a near-standstill, while on southbound I-680 near Walnut Creek, a trampoline blocked two left lanes, wreaking havoc on the morning commute. Bagged loaves of sourdough bread blocked U.S. 101, near Petaluma. The highway patrol had to be dispatched. Skip to next paragraph An Average Mile of Litter Video: 'City of Trash' Public Service Announcement On the set of a commercial for a &#147;secure your load&#148; campaign in Washington State, staff members photographed an improperly loaded truck. Last month, a plastic sink was on the loose, stretched across two lanes of the San Mateo Bridge. The sink was something of a departure from the mattresses, aluminum ladders, sofas, buckets — with the occasional spilled Napa County grapes thrown in — that snarled traffic and contributed to the state’s daily accumulation of road debris. While by no means unique to California, pickup trucks and other vehicles piled high with improperly secured loads are a fact of life here, contributing — thanks to the laws of physics — to an estimated 140,000 cubic yards of road debris a year. That is enough to fill 8,750 garbage trucks, which would extend for 45 miles, said Tamie McGowen, a spokeswoman for Caltrans, the state transportation department. And it is increasingly hazardous, experts say. In California, 155 people lost their lives in the last two years after accidents involving objects on highways, and states are beginning to address the issue. Next week, a murder trial is set to begin in the death of a Los Angeles county deputy sheriff who was killed when he swerved to avoid a stolen stove that had fallen from a Long Beach man’s truck. In California and across the nation, where some freeway shoulders have come to resemble weekend yard sales, the nature of road debris has changed, and litter anthropologists are now studying the phenomenon. Where “deliberate” litter used to reign — those blithely tossed fast-food wrappers and the like — “unintentional” or “negligent” litter from poorly secured loads is making its presence felt. Steven R. Stein, a litter analyst for R. W. Beck, a waste-consulting firm in Maryland, attributes the change to more trash-hauling vehicles, including recycling trucks, and the ubiquity of pickup trucks on the country’s highways. In 1986, Mr. Stein said, two-thirds of the debris was deliberate, but surveys now show the litter seesaw balanced. He said the two most recent surveys indicated a further increase in unintentional litter. In Georgia, which recently quantified its litter, 66 percent of road debris comes from unintentional litter, largely unsecured loads. A study in Tennessee last year showed that 70 percent of the state’s debris was unintentional. By dint of its climate, size, population, lengthy growing season, increasingly long commutes and, perhaps, its casual lifestyle, California is a road-debris leader. It is also home to the country’s largest number of registered vehicles — 32 million, twice that of No. 2 Texas — and roughly four million pickup trucks, the most of any state, according to the Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers in Washington. No other state spends more on litter removal, in excess of $55 million, said Christine Flowers-Ewing, the executive director of Keep California Beautiful, a nonprofit environmental education organization. Motorists in California can be fined if anything other than feathers from live birds or water should escape. (In Nebraska, the exception is corn stalks; in Kentucky, coal.) Along with mudslides, brush fires and earthquakes, chance encounters with a set of box springs, a chintz cushion or a crate of lettuces are the daily stuff of radio traffic updates, recounted in excruciating detail. When a tractor-trailer full of freeze-dried oriental soup and vegetables spilled onto the I-710 freeway near Los Angeles, for example, “there was one from Column A, and one from Columns B and C,” said Peter Demetriou, a veteran traffic reporter for KFWB radio in Los Angeles. “The only problem was, it was Lane 1, Lane 2 and Lane 3.” Greg Williams, who has worked for the California Highway Patrol in Bakersfield for 27 years, cited a carrot truck spill in the fog on State Highway 84 as his worst case. “In cities, we chase furniture; in rural areas it’s cattle, sheep, horses, buckets and nails,” Mr. Williams said. “There’s nothing slipperier than a crushed carrot.” More Articles in National &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. California: Request to Toughen Truck Drivers&#8217; Rules National Briefing | West: California: Radio Show Pulled After Contest Death Death Rate on Highways Rises, and Motorcycles Are Blamed More Articles in National &#x00bb; A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/pages/national/index.html	National News - All Headlines - New York Times Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard By PATRICIA LEIGH BROWN Experts say that today&#146;s do-it-yourself mentality, in part, leads many people, like this driver in Burlington, Ontario, to haul large items. California is beginning to address the issue of deaths caused by accidents involving objects on highways. Wildfire Threatens a California Resort Island Firefighters struggled today to prevent a wildfire from reaching homes on the edge of Santa Catalina Island. Mixed Mood on Campus at Va. Tech Graduation Today, as parents arrived for graduation ceremonies, it was hard to tell the tears of joy from those of sadness. 6 Charged in Fort Dix Plot Held Without Bail The men, charged with plotting to attack Fort Dix, were arrested on Tuesday after a 15-month investigation. New Mayor but Familiar Issues on Dallas’s Horizon Twelve candidates are in a wild scramble to head the nation’s ninth-largest metropolis, long troubled by crime, scandals, racial polarization and government gridlock. F.D.A. Panel Seeks Limits on Cancer Patient Drugs Bowing to safety concerns, government medical advisers urged on Thursday that additional restrictions be put on the use of drugs that treat anemia in cancer patients. Romney Works to Put Skeptics’ Doubts to Rest Many conservative Christians are concerned about Mitt Romney’s religion and his recent shift on abortion rights. Democrats Push Gonzales on Attorney Dismissals Attorney General Alberto R. Gonzales stuck to his past assertions that the firings were appropriate. Men Apologize for Boston Cartoon Stunt Purdue Will Reinvestigate Its Professor Who Claimed Desktop Fusion U.S. Charges a Leading Chicago Political Figure With Fraud and Bribery Passage of Drug Safety Bill Was Common Goal for Two Very Different Senators Spellings Rejects Criticism on Student Loan Scandal Bush and Democrats in Accord on Labor Rights in Trade Deals Civil Liberties Advocate Named Ombudsman for Texas Youth Man Convicted in 1993 Restaurant Killings Dairy Council to End Ad Campaign That Linked Drinking Milk With Weight Loss Theodore Maiman, 79, Dies; Demonstrated First Laser Texas: Concern Over Buzzards Delays ‘Body Farm’ North Carolina: Immigrant Freed Over Demeaning Photograph California: Plan to Privatize Lottery California: Conviction in Secrets Case California: Ill Woman Is Dropping Marijuana Battle Washington: Whistle-Blower Ordered to Be Reinstated Names of the Dead Read profiles of the men and women killed in the shootings at Virginia Tech and share your thoughts and memories. : Recounting the Events at Virginia Tech A reconstruction of the shootings, with maps and diagrams of campus buildings. : Sex Offenders and Civil Commitment Civil commitment for sex offenders is gaining favor with lawmakers even as its stated purpose is almost never met. : Faces of the Dead An interactive look at the American service members who have died in Iraq. In Houston, Giuliani Defends Abortion Stance Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights On Carrier in Gulf, Cheney Warns Iran President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure House Passes Ban on Gifts From Student Lenders Harvard Task Force Calls for New Focus on Teaching and Not Just Research from the past 7 days enter keyword or date e.g. April 21, 2001 U.S. Queries Filmmaker on Cuba Trip for Movie By LAURA M. HOLSON The Treasury Department sent a letter to Michael Moore, a provocative filmmaker, to investigate whether he had violated restrictions on travel to Cuba. The Reach of War New York Times Polls Today in TimesSelect » Some parents of children with Down syndrome want prospective parents to know the positive side of raising a child with the genetic condition. Kunal Sah, 13, hopes that winning the Scripps National Spelling Bee will bring attention to the plight of his parents, who were deported to India. Julia Preston reports on how Maria Brizelda Amaya's family is coping with her deportation. Infant Mortality: A Legacy of Poverty Erik Eckholm reports on the intractable problem of infant mortality in poor Mississippi communities. News from AP &#x00bb; Armless, One - Legged Driver Leads Chase Va. Tech Graduations Honor Slain Victims Mysterious Object Probably Space Junk Knoxville Zoo Displays Albino Alligator Md. School Evacuated Over Odd Bottle Study Renews Debate Over Sows in Crates Find News By State Go to a State Page MOST POPULAR - U.S. Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Harvard Task Force Calls for New Focus on Teaching and Not Just Research Wildfire Threatens a California Resort Island New Mayor but Familiar Issues on Dallas&#8217;s Horizon Wildfire Threatens a Southern California Resort Island Europeans Press Wolfowitz to Quit as Bank Chief Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Purdue Will Reinvestigate Its Professor Who Claimed Desktop Fusion Wildfire Threatens a California Resort Island U.S. Queries Filmmaker on Cuba Trip for Movie Go to Complete List » Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus A Liberal Case for Gun Rights Helps Sway Judiciary Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix 6 Arrested in Plot to Attack Fort Dix Critic of Corps of Engineers Says Levee Repairs for New Orleans Show Signs of Flaws College Loan Official Resigns 50 Years Later, Little Rock Can't Escape Race Agency Affirms Mandates for Driver's Licenses Harvard Task Force Calls for New Focus on Teaching and Not Just Research Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Plan what to see, eat and do. Looking to buy a new car? Post a job online today! Browse movie reviews from 1913. Get up close to politics & more for $3.15 a week. The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/us/11cnd-blaze.html	Wildfire Threatens a California Resort Island - New York Times Wildfire Threatens a California Resort Island Smoke rose over Avalon on Thursday. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 Firefighters struggled early today to prevent a wildfire from reaching homes on the edge of Santa Catalina Island’s main town, as residents and visitors fled the resort island off the Southern California coast. Skip to next paragraph The New York Times A wildfire approached Santa Catalina Island&#146;s main city, Avalon, on Thursday. People wait to be evacuated from the town of Avalon, Calif., as smoke from a wildfire rises in the background on Santa Catalina Island. At least 160 firefighters, aided by four water-dropping helicopters and three retardant-dropping air tankers, battled flames through most of Thursday. The helicopters flew into the night and were back in the air at dawn today. Dozens of fire engines from as far away as Fresno arrived through the night aboard giant military hovercraft from the Marine Corps base at Camp Pendleton. The high-speed hovercraft can carry 60 tons of cargo over land or water, and are often used by the military on humanitarian missions. The blaze broke out Thursday afternoon on the island, which is more than 20 miles off the coast. Flames threatened the city limits of Avalon, where hundreds of people lined up at the harbor Thursday night to board ferries back to the mainland. Many covered their faces with towels and bandanas as ashes fell around them. A few homes on the island were burned, but firefighters worked to protect other properties late into the night, said Steven Hoefs, the chief of the Avalon fire department. Some 1,200 homes were under voluntary or mandatory evacuation orders. “We’re hanging in for now,” Chief Hoefs said. The blaze, which began five miles east of the island’s airport, grew to cover 4,000 acres, feeding on dry brush and scrub as winds steadily blew throughout the day and into the night on Thursday. Winds later calmed and the air grew more humid, although the threat of fire remained. An orange inferno loomed behind the quaint crescent-shaped harbor, the landmark 1929 Catalina Casino, and the homes, restaurants and tiny hotels clinging to slopes above the Avalon waterfront. A commercial building and several warehouses burned, and 175 utility customers lost electricity when power poles caught on fire. Overnight, Blackhawk and Chinook helicopters were ferrying in firefighters, 32 at a time. Crews were being positioned at the city’s edge to protect homes. “We’re on defense mode for now,” Chief Hoefs said. In Avalon, authorities used a bullhorn to urge people to evacuate the city and head to the beach. Visitors to the island were directed to the historic Art Deco-style Casino building until it lost power, while residents were sent to another site along the harbor. The Catalina Express ferry service added several night departures of 400-passenger vessels from Avalon. Hundreds of residents and visitors boarded the ferries to reach the mainland. A family of eight said they had just enough time to pack some clothes and personal papers before fleeing. “I’m scared,” said Angelica Romero, 30, holding her 7-month-old daughter. “But what’s important is I have my children. The rest doesn’t matter.” At the mainland port of Long Beach, Kathy Troeger, a Santa Catalina resident, arrived by ferry with her three children and a friend’s daughter. Her husband, a fire captain, stayed behind to help fight the blaze. “It was like a nightmare when we left,” she said. “You couldn’t breathe, and ash was falling like snow.” An evacuation center was set up at Cabrillo High School, where about 85 people had checked in, according to the Red Cross. Santa Catalina has been left parched by the same lack of rainfall that has made the Southern California mainland particularly susceptible to wildfires, like the one in Griffith Park in Los Angeles earlier this week. Firefighters were still working there today to surround what remained of the fire, which briefly chased people from adjacent homes and threatened the park’s landmark observatory and its zoo. Los Angeles officials had expected the Griffith Park fire to be fully contained by Thursday, two days after it peaked, and no visible flames remained, but fire crews were still building containment lines around the fire’s perimeter late into the night. Only 2 inches of rain have fallen on Santa Catalina since January. The island is long and fairly narrow, covering a total of 76 square miles of land area, most of it owned and kept as a preserve by the Santa Catalina Island Conservancy. various wildlife. The populated areas are served by helicopters and ferry boats from Los Angeles, Long Beach and other mainland harbors. Avalon, the main town, has a year-round population of 3,200, but swells to more than 10,000 on weekends and in the summer, according to the Catalina Island Chamber of Commerce and Visitors Bureau. The Associated Press contributed to this report. More Articles in National &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. More Articles in National &#x00bb; A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Fifth Avenue strollers, circa 1900 Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/us/11cnd-virginia.html	Mixed Mood on Campus at Va. Tech Graduation - New York Times Mixed Mood on Campus at Va. Tech Graduation A Virginia Tech student paying his respects at a memorial to the shooting victims before the start of commencement exercises. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 BLACKSBURG, Va., May 11 — Commencement at the was supposed to be a moment for parents to watch their children take a symbolic step. From a youthful safe haven, students would graduate into a larger and less predictable world. Skip to next paragraph Melanie Blanding for The New York Times A memorial to the victims of the shootings at Virginia Tech. But that harsh unpredictability came to the Virginia Tech campus in April with a deadly shooting rampage. And today, as thousands of parents arrived for graduation ceremonies, it was hard to tell the tears of joy from those of sadness. Students shared giddy hugs and tossed their tassels. In quieter moments, they also spoke of feelings of guilt and the uncomfortable celebrity of having survived. Faculty members regaled proud parents with classroom anecdotes. They also said they still struggled to find the right words to capture the conflicting mix of emotions. “This is supposed to be a celebration,” said Bryan Cloyd, who is both a parent of one the slain students and a professor on campus. Mr. Cloyd carried a distinct trepidation into the ceremonies, but overcame an initial reluctance to join the festivities. He will receive an honorary degree for his 18-year-old daughter, Austin, in hopes of helping remove the “emotional cloud” still looming over campus, he said. “We’re also looking for any healing we can get,” he added. Caroline Merrey, a senior, said she hoped that graduation and the promise of summer would lessen her haunting sense of guilt. “There are lots of days when I think I should have gone back and done something,” said Ms. Merrey, who leapt from a classroom window while her professor, , blocked the door, temporarily keeping the gunman at bay. “I’m lucky that I didn’t get shot and I’m still here. But I feel like what I did was a cheap way out.” Professor Librescu died of gunshot wounds. Ms. Merry said she plans to move in the coming weeks to Chicago, where some of her relatives live, and to start looking there for a job in engineering. Distance and a recent haircut may help restore an anonymity and normalcy that was removed by the shootings, she added. “Graduation is hard enough, because you don’t know what happens next,” she said. “It’s even harder with these emotions, all the media, and the reminders everywhere of what happened.” Karan Grewal, a former suitemate of the gunman, , said his mind drifts to questions he would rather avoid. “I think about why he didn’t start with us back at the suite, and why he went to the other dorm instead,” Mr. Grewal said. “But my philosophy has been that if I let those thoughts take over, then Cho won. So, I focus on enjoying graduation and moving forward.” Looking toward Saturday, when individual departments will hold their own ceremonies, Nikki Giovanni, a poet and English Department professor, said it was a difficult time to be a public speaker. “You have this elephant in the room, and you don’t know how to tame it,” said Ms. Giovanni, who was asked by others on the faculty to speak at her departmental ceremony. “You can’t dwell on what happened, but you can’t overlook it either.” Still, she said, her job was easier than others. She would not need to write much new material, because her department asked her to deliver her poem, “We are Virginia Tech,” again. She presented that poem during a convocation in the days after the shooting, and it became an emotional turning point during that ceremony, bringing a somber crowd to its feet in clapping and chanting. Saturday’s commencement address will be the last time she reads the poem publicly, she said, because she does not want it to become the defining voice of the tragedy. More than with sorrow, Dr. Ishwar K. Puri said he finished the year with an overwhelming sense of awe at the generosity of strangers. Dr. Puri, the chairman of the Department of Engineering Science and Mechanics, said that when the police sealed off Norris Hall, the site of most of the shooting, as a crime scene, his 24 faculty members, 80 doctoral students and 25 master’s students were left blocked from their laboratories. Their research ground to a halt; so did their ability to apply for jobs or for research grants. But offers to help began arriving almost immediately, he said. The Technical University of Delft in the Netherlands invited his whole faculty to work in its laboratories on paid sabbaticals. Dell, the computer manufacturer, donated 30 laptop and 20 desktop computers to replace those left stranded in the inaccessible laboratories. University opened their laboratories for internships. “Really, this has turned into a story of hope, not despair,” he said. He added, however, that as he looked toward the summer, he had to admit there was a small sense of dread, too. As the spirit of Hokie pride subsides on campus with the departure of students and faculty, Dr. Puri said he was not looking forward to facing a painful task he has put off for weeks: the writing of a job announcement to seek replacements for the two professors in his department who were killed. “Doing that strikes you with the finality of it all,” he said. “How, really, do you replace people who were colleagues, friends, individuals? You can’t.” More Articles in National &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. ON EDUCATION; Deciding When Student Writing Crosses the Line Privacy Laws Slow Efforts To Widen Gun-Buyer Data Torn by University Shootings, Virginia Town Turns Inward to Mend Virginia Ends A Loophole In Gun Laws Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University More Articles in National &#x00bb; A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/nyregion/11cnd-dix.html?ex=1336536000&en=b0039749a0948239&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	6 Charged in Fort Dix Plot Held Without Bail - New York Times 6 Charged in Fort Dix Plot Held Without Bail Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 CAMDEN, N.J., May 11 — Six Muslim men from New Jersey and Philadelphia charged with plotting to attack Fort Dix with automatic weapons were ordered held without bail today by a federal magistrate here. The men were arrested on Monday night after a 15-month investigation in which the and two informers who had infiltrated the group taped them training with automatic weapons in rural Pennsylvania, conducting surveillance of military bases in the Northeast, watching videos of and the 9/11 hijackers and trying to buy AK-47 assault rifles. The authorities have described the suspects as Islamic extremists and have said they represent the newest breed of threat: loosely organized domestic militants unconnected to — but inspired by — or other international terror groups. Prosecutors argued today that the men, all of whom were born outside the United States, should be denied bail because they posed a flight risk. Only one of the men, Mohamad Shnewer, requested bail, with his family offering to put up four properties worth $580,000 and requesting that he be placed under house arrest with an electronic monitoring bracelet. An assistant United States attorney, Stephen R. Stigall, argued that house arrest offered no protection to the public because Mr. Shnewer “was living in that same house” as the plan to attack Fort Dix was being put together. United States Magistate Joel Schneider ordered that Mr. Shnewer, along with the five others, be held without bail. They have been held in a detention center in Philadelphia since their arrest. Five of the men — Mohamad Shnewer, 22; Serdar Tatar, 23; Dritan Duka, 28; Shain Duka, 26; and Eljvir Duka, 23 — are charged with conspiring to kill uniformed military personnel, an offense punishable by life in prison. The sixth man, Agron Abdullahu, 24, is charged with helping illegal immigrants obtain weapons, an offense punishable by up to 10 years in prison. He will have a more detailed bail hearing later this week. After the hearing, Michael Huff, the attorney for Dritan Duka, said that defending terror suspects is challenging, “This is post-9/11,” he said, according to The Associated Press. “This is one of the No. 1 things on the public’s mind.” Troy Archie, the lawyer for the defendant Eljvir Duka, complained about the conditions under which his client is being held. Mr. Archie said that Mr. Duka “is basically just sitting in a cell in solitary” and that he had not been allowed to talk to his family. Mr. Archie also said that Mr. Duka’s request for a Koran had been ignored. The defense lawyer also raised questions about the confidential informer who prosecutors said was central to the case. “I just don’t understand how someone could infiltrate an alleged terrorist organization, and my emphasis is on allege , within 30 days of meeting them,” Mr. Archie said. He also questioned the informer’s background, which he said included a criminal record. “Everyone in the community knew him,” Mr. Archie said, “and he was bad news.” More Articles in New York Region &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. More Articles in New York Region &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/health/11anemia.html	F.D.A. Panel Seeks Limits on Cancer Patient Drugs - New York Times Mental Health & Behavior F.D.A. Panel Seeks Limits on Cancer Patient Drugs Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 SILVER SPRING, Md., May 10 &#151; Bowing to safety concerns, government medical advisers urged on Thursday that additional restrictions be put on the use of drugs that treat The recommendations by an advisory committee to the Food and Drug Administration followed a flurry of studies suggesting that the drugs, meant to help patients cope with , might actually be making their cancer worse or hastening their deaths. The drugs &#151; Aranesp from Amgen and Procrit from Johnson &#38; Johnson &#151; are used by about a half-million American cancer patients a year and have billions of dollars in annual sales. Some members of the committee expressed shock that even though Procrit was first approved 14 years ago, it was still not clear if the drugs were safe at the doses typically used. &#8220;Yes, we have a burning question,&#8221; one panel member, Dr. Silvana Martino, an oncologist in Santa Monica, Calif., said at the meeting here. &#8220;Do these things kill people?&#8221; Most of the studies showing a risk involved use of the drugs at doses higher than doctors typically give them. That left the committee with the question of what to do about use of the drugs at the usual doses until more data become available. The F.D.A. has already clamped down on the drugs. In March it put strict new warnings on the labels, saying the products should be used at the smallest dosage that lets anemic patients avoid blood transfusions. But the panel&#8217;s votes Thursday portend even further restrictions. The committee voted 12 to 5, for instance, that the drugs should be barred from use by patients with certain types of cancer until more is known about their safety. While the committee did not specify which types, several members mentioned , non-small cell lung cancer and head and neck cancer. The committee voted 15 to 2 that there should be more restrictions in general if the drugs remain on the market, and 17 to 0 that more studies were needed. And it voted 16 to 1 that anemia therapy should be stopped when chemotherapy is finished. But in one victory for the drug makers, the committee voted 11 to 6 against lowering the ceiling on how much the anemia should be corrected. The labels now say that a patient&#8217;s hemoglobin, the oxygen-carrying component of red blood cells, should not be raised to more than 12 grams per deciliter of blood. The F.D.A. usually follows the recommendations of such panels. Dr. Richard Pazdur, director of the agency&#8217;s cancer drug division, said Thursday he could not say yet when or how the agency would act. The two drugs, along with another Amgen drug, Epogen, are also used to treat anemia caused by kidney disease, but yesterday&#8217;s meeting concerned only cancer treatment. Another hearing dealing with kidney disease will be held early in the fall. The panel&#8217;s recommendations were a particular blow to Amgen, which last year took in nearly half its $14.3 billion in revenue from the anemia drugs. Johnson &#38; Johnson is far larger and more diversified than Amgen, and so is less dependent on Procrit sales. &#8220;I think it&#8217;s worse than what investors expected,&#8221; Michael Aberman, an analyst who follows Amgen for Credit Suisse, said after the meeting. Amgen&#8217;s stock fell $5.77, or more than 9 percent, to close at $57.33. Trish Hawkins, an Amgen spokeswoman, said in a statement, &#8220;We will be working with the F.D.A. as they consider the committee&#8217;s recommendations.&#8221; The drugs, known generically as darbepoetin and epoetin, were approved to reduce the need for blood transfusions in patients with anemia from chemotherapy. Many doctors and patients believe the drugs fight fatigue and improve patients&#8217; daily lives, although the F.D.A. said it did not find studies with persuasive evidence of such benefits. A panel member from , Dr. Otis Brawley, said some doctors overprescribed the drugs because they made money from doing so. Doctors can sometimes receive more from insurers than they pay for the drugs, especially if they receive rebates from the manufacturers. Dr. Brawley said the drug companies had not done proper studies, and at one point asked them, &#8220;What data do you have to assure me that this is not Miracle-Gro for cancer?&#8221; The staff of the F.D.A. was also critical of the companies, saying they had not provided data they had promised when a similar advisory panel meeting was held in 2004. The companies and their advocates argued that ample data showed the drugs were safe when used properly, except for a long-known risk of increased blood clots. They also argued that the drugs had significant benefits. Forcing cancer patients to go back to transfusions, they said, would expose the patients to risks and inconvenience and further strain the nation&#8217;s already taxed blood supply. That sentiment was also voiced by some committee members. &#8220;I think the idea of going back to the dark ages in regards to supportive care is a step backward,&#8221; said Dr. S. Gail Eckhardt of the , the panel&#8217;s chairman. Advisory panel meetings often feature eloquent pleas from patients that a drug be approved or kept on the market. But there was not a big outpouring of support for the anemia drugs. In fact, some patients expressed dismay at how the drugs were used. &#8220;How is it possible that what was meant to help me might actually have made things worse?&#8221; said Lilla Romeo, who has had breast cancer since 1995. Next Article in Health (2 of 15) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. MARKET PLACE; Amgen Seeks To Reverse Its Bad News ImClone's Drug Fails in Pancreatic Cancer Study F.D.A. Approves Glaxo Cancer Drug Studies Show Anemia Drugs May Harm Cancer Patients Food and Drug Administration Next Article in Health (2 of 15) &#x00bb; Everything you need to know about heart disease Hip resurfacing: is it right for you? The changing attitudes towards "chemo brain" Treating the awkward years Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/us/11dallas.html	New Mayor but Familiar Issues on Dallas&#8217;s Horizon - New York Times New Mayor but Familiar Issues on Dallas’s Horizon Mark Graham for The New York Times Dallas, long troubled by crime, scandals, racial polarization and government gridlock, as seen across wetlands in the Trinity River project. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 DALLAS — The $69 margarita at N9NE Steakhouse in Ross Perot Jr.’s $3 billion Victory Park development is not the most expensive drink in town, but it is one way of toasting the better times that some see ahead for a long-struggling Big D. Skip to next paragraph Mark Graham for The New York Times Mayor Laura Miller is leaving office. “This is our version of Rodeo Drive,” said Mr. Perot, son of the software entrepreneur and 1992 presidential candidate, showing off his Riviera of boutiques on 75 acres of hotel towers, condos and clubs alongside his American Airlines Center, the sports arena near downtown, in what was, until 1998, a polluted brownfield of rusting railyards and industrial plants. Now the question is who will lead a resurgent Dallas. After five turbulent years, Laura Miller, perhaps the nation’s only investigative reporter turned big-city mayor, is not running again, setting off a wild scramble to head the nation’s ninth-largest metropolis, long troubled by crime, scandals, racial polarization and government gridlock. In an interview at City Hall, Ms. Miller, 48, voiced pride at the forest of construction cranes, the flowering of the arts district, and her partly successful fight against new coal-fired power plants in Texas. But she said: “I’m done with politics. I don’t particularly like it.” It was especially difficult, she said, for someone who had made her living “skewering” people to join them later at the council table. Ms. Miller’s exit leaves 12 candidates, including one under federal investigation, vying for mayor in the election on May 12. A June 16 runoff is likely. Upping the ante, a petition war is raging over the future of one of Dallas’s biggest public works projects ever — a 10,000-acre greenbelt along the Trinity River that could hold a dozen Central Parks, along with a toll road that critics say is larger than ever envisioned when voters approved a $246 million bond issue nearly a decade ago. If anything, said Ms. Miller, a champion of the project, battling for her legacy would be reason to run for a second full four-year term. (She finished the last year of her mayoral predecessor, Ron Kirk, when he left to run, unsuccessfully, for the But Ms. Miller, a mother of three, explained her decision by saying, “I’m not running because my 16-year-old daughter sat me down and said, ‘If you’re running again — and it looks like you’re running again, Mom—you will be throwing the towel in on all of us.’ ” With that, Ms. Miller said, “she started crying and I started crying — and that’s why I’m not running again.” She and her husband, Steve Wolens, a former state representative, also have a younger daughter and son. She might also have faced a tough re-election fight. For all the gloss of a Victory Park, there is also Deep Ellum, the once-vibrant blues district that has proved a graveyard of renewal hopes — “It’s just looking worse and worse all the time,” said Gianna Madrini, a fashion videographer who heads the neighborhood association — and a federal lawsuit is challenging the city’s restrictions on feeding the homeless in public. Ms. Miller’s retirement, announced last year, threw the race for mayor wide open, drawing among others, three business executives, Thomas C. Leppert, David Samuel Coats and Max Wells, widely regarded as front-runners; and a four-term councilman, Don Hill, a leader of African-Americans in city government who often clashed with Ms. Miller but now offers grudging praise. “It’s not how you start but how you finish,” Mr. Hill said, “and she’s finishing better than she started.” But Mr. Hill, the mayor pro tem, has been under the cloud of a federal investigation for two years since tapes leaked from an undercover operation revealed a developer’s negotiating a $50,000 payoff with a lawyer and contractors seeking Mr. Hill’s support for a commercial development. No charges have been brought against Mr. Hill, who was not heard on the tapes made public and who has denied any wrongdoing. “It’s been two years after the furor, the circus and the pressure, and I would like for them to clear my name,” Mr. Hill said in an interview at his campaign headquarters. The F.B.I. has not commented on the investigation. The corruption inquiry and leaks have deepened longstanding tensions among blacks in South Dallas, which has historically been shortchanged on development projects, schools and city services. Resentments have festered since Ms. Miller pressured the city manager to fire Dallas’s first African-American police chief after a scandal involving a drug-frame-up in 2003 before mobilizing the City Council to oust the city manager as well. Ms. Miller said that proved her dedication to good government. “If I had been a politician,” she said, “I never would have touched it.” Gretel C. Kovach contributed reporting. More Articles in National &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Bloomberg Invites Other Mayors to Town to Discuss Gun Crime Heady Days of J.R. and Landry Are History in Humbled Dallas National Briefing | Southwest: Texas: Effort To Recall Mayor Falls Short Ex-Journalist Wins Runoff for Dallas Mayor More Articles in National &#x00bb; A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Fifth Avenue From St. Regis, circa 1904 Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/us/11cnd-virginia.html?ex=1336536000&en=6dadbfd48442b036&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Mixed Mood on Campus at Va. Tech Graduation - New York Times Mixed Mood on Campus at Va. Tech Graduation A Virginia Tech student paying his respects at a memorial to the shooting victims before the start of commencement exercises. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 BLACKSBURG, Va., May 11 — Commencement at the was supposed to be a moment for parents to watch their children take a symbolic step. From a youthful safe haven, students would graduate into a larger and less predictable world. Skip to next paragraph Melanie Blanding for The New York Times A memorial to the victims of the shootings at Virginia Tech. But that harsh unpredictability came to the Virginia Tech campus in April with a deadly shooting rampage. And today, as thousands of parents arrived for graduation ceremonies, it was hard to tell the tears of joy from those of sadness. Students shared giddy hugs and tossed their tassels. In quieter moments, they also spoke of feelings of guilt and the uncomfortable celebrity of having survived. Faculty members regaled proud parents with classroom anecdotes. They also said they still struggled to find the right words to capture the conflicting mix of emotions. “This is supposed to be a celebration,” said Bryan Cloyd, who is both a parent of one the slain students and a professor on campus. Mr. Cloyd carried a distinct trepidation into the ceremonies, but overcame an initial reluctance to join the festivities. He will receive an honorary degree for his 18-year-old daughter, Austin, in hopes of helping remove the “emotional cloud” still looming over campus, he said. “We’re also looking for any healing we can get,” he added. Caroline Merrey, a senior, said she hoped that graduation and the promise of summer would lessen her haunting sense of guilt. “There are lots of days when I think I should have gone back and done something,” said Ms. Merrey, who leapt from a classroom window while her professor, , blocked the door, temporarily keeping the gunman at bay. “I’m lucky that I didn’t get shot and I’m still here. But I feel like what I did was a cheap way out.” Professor Librescu died of gunshot wounds. Ms. Merry said she plans to move in the coming weeks to Chicago, where some of her relatives live, and to start looking there for a job in engineering. Distance and a recent haircut may help restore an anonymity and normalcy that was removed by the shootings, she added. “Graduation is hard enough, because you don’t know what happens next,” she said. “It’s even harder with these emotions, all the media, and the reminders everywhere of what happened.” Karan Grewal, a former suitemate of the gunman, , said his mind drifts to questions he would rather avoid. “I think about why he didn’t start with us back at the suite, and why he went to the other dorm instead,” Mr. Grewal said. “But my philosophy has been that if I let those thoughts take over, then Cho won. So, I focus on enjoying graduation and moving forward.” Looking toward Saturday, when individual departments will hold their own ceremonies, Nikki Giovanni, a poet and English Department professor, said it was a difficult time to be a public speaker. “You have this elephant in the room, and you don’t know how to tame it,” said Ms. Giovanni, who was asked by others on the faculty to speak at her departmental ceremony. “You can’t dwell on what happened, but you can’t overlook it either.” Still, she said, her job was easier than others. She would not need to write much new material, because her department asked her to deliver her poem, “We are Virginia Tech,” again. She presented that poem during a convocation in the days after the shooting, and it became an emotional turning point during that ceremony, bringing a somber crowd to its feet in clapping and chanting. Saturday’s commencement address will be the last time she reads the poem publicly, she said, because she does not want it to become the defining voice of the tragedy. More than with sorrow, Dr. Ishwar K. Puri said he finished the year with an overwhelming sense of awe at the generosity of strangers. Dr. Puri, the chairman of the Department of Engineering Science and Mechanics, said that when the police sealed off Norris Hall, the site of most of the shooting, as a crime scene, his 24 faculty members, 80 doctoral students and 25 master’s students were left blocked from their laboratories. Their research ground to a halt; so did their ability to apply for jobs or for research grants. But offers to help began arriving almost immediately, he said. The Technical University of Delft in the Netherlands invited his whole faculty to work in its laboratories on paid sabbaticals. Dell, the computer manufacturer, donated 30 laptop and 20 desktop computers to replace those left stranded in the inaccessible laboratories. University opened their laboratories for internships. “Really, this has turned into a story of hope, not despair,” he said. He added, however, that as he looked toward the summer, he had to admit there was a small sense of dread, too. As the spirit of Hokie pride subsides on campus with the departure of students and faculty, Dr. Puri said he was not looking forward to facing a painful task he has put off for weeks: the writing of a job announcement to seek replacements for the two professors in his department who were killed. “Doing that strikes you with the finality of it all,” he said. “How, really, do you replace people who were colleagues, friends, individuals? You can’t.” More Articles in National &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. ON EDUCATION; Deciding When Student Writing Crosses the Line Privacy Laws Slow Efforts To Widen Gun-Buyer Data Torn by University Shootings, Virginia Town Turns Inward to Mend Virginia Ends A Loophole In Gun Laws Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University More Articles in National &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/us/11debris.html?ex=1336536000&en=e917b4ee7a21e653&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard - New York Times Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Experts say that today&#146;s do-it-yourself mentality, in part, leads many people, like this driver in Burlington, Ontario, to haul large items. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 SAN FRANCISCO, May 9 — It was just another rush hour. On eastbound Interstate 580 near Pleasanton recently, a rocking chair brought traffic to a near-standstill, while on southbound I-680 near Walnut Creek, a trampoline blocked two left lanes, wreaking havoc on the morning commute. Bagged loaves of sourdough bread blocked U.S. 101, near Petaluma. The highway patrol had to be dispatched. Skip to next paragraph An Average Mile of Litter Video: 'City of Trash' Public Service Announcement On the set of a commercial for a &#147;secure your load&#148; campaign in Washington State, staff members photographed an improperly loaded truck. Last month, a plastic sink was on the loose, stretched across two lanes of the San Mateo Bridge. The sink was something of a departure from the mattresses, aluminum ladders, sofas, buckets — with the occasional spilled Napa County grapes thrown in — that snarled traffic and contributed to the state’s daily accumulation of road debris. While by no means unique to California, pickup trucks and other vehicles piled high with improperly secured loads are a fact of life here, contributing — thanks to the laws of physics — to an estimated 140,000 cubic yards of road debris a year. That is enough to fill 8,750 garbage trucks, which would extend for 45 miles, said Tamie McGowen, a spokeswoman for Caltrans, the state transportation department. And it is increasingly hazardous, experts say. In California, 155 people lost their lives in the last two years after accidents involving objects on highways, and states are beginning to address the issue. Next week, a murder trial is set to begin in the death of a Los Angeles county deputy sheriff who was killed when he swerved to avoid a stolen stove that had fallen from a Long Beach man’s truck. In California and across the nation, where some freeway shoulders have come to resemble weekend yard sales, the nature of road debris has changed, and litter anthropologists are now studying the phenomenon. Where “deliberate” litter used to reign — those blithely tossed fast-food wrappers and the like — “unintentional” or “negligent” litter from poorly secured loads is making its presence felt. Steven R. Stein, a litter analyst for R. W. Beck, a waste-consulting firm in Maryland, attributes the change to more trash-hauling vehicles, including recycling trucks, and the ubiquity of pickup trucks on the country’s highways. In 1986, Mr. Stein said, two-thirds of the debris was deliberate, but surveys now show the litter seesaw balanced. He said the two most recent surveys indicated a further increase in unintentional litter. In Georgia, which recently quantified its litter, 66 percent of road debris comes from unintentional litter, largely unsecured loads. A study in Tennessee last year showed that 70 percent of the state’s debris was unintentional. By dint of its climate, size, population, lengthy growing season, increasingly long commutes and, perhaps, its casual lifestyle, California is a road-debris leader. It is also home to the country’s largest number of registered vehicles — 32 million, twice that of No. 2 Texas — and roughly four million pickup trucks, the most of any state, according to the Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers in Washington. No other state spends more on litter removal, in excess of $55 million, said Christine Flowers-Ewing, the executive director of Keep California Beautiful, a nonprofit environmental education organization. Motorists in California can be fined if anything other than feathers from live birds or water should escape. (In Nebraska, the exception is corn stalks; in Kentucky, coal.) Along with mudslides, brush fires and earthquakes, chance encounters with a set of box springs, a chintz cushion or a crate of lettuces are the daily stuff of radio traffic updates, recounted in excruciating detail. When a tractor-trailer full of freeze-dried oriental soup and vegetables spilled onto the I-710 freeway near Los Angeles, for example, “there was one from Column A, and one from Columns B and C,” said Peter Demetriou, a veteran traffic reporter for KFWB radio in Los Angeles. “The only problem was, it was Lane 1, Lane 2 and Lane 3.” Greg Williams, who has worked for the California Highway Patrol in Bakersfield for 27 years, cited a carrot truck spill in the fog on State Highway 84 as his worst case. “In cities, we chase furniture; in rural areas it’s cattle, sheep, horses, buckets and nails,” Mr. Williams said. “There’s nothing slipperier than a crushed carrot.” More Articles in National &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. California: Request to Toughen Truck Drivers&#8217; Rules National Briefing | West: California: Radio Show Pulled After Contest Death Death Rate on Highways Rises, and Motorcycles Are Blamed More Articles in National &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/us/11cnd-blaze.html?ex=1336536000&en=616db4de7e44ee94&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Wildfire Threatens a California Resort Island - New York Times Wildfire Threatens a California Resort Island Smoke rose over Avalon on Thursday. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 Firefighters struggled early today to prevent a wildfire from reaching homes on the edge of Santa Catalina Island’s main town, as residents and visitors fled the resort island off the Southern California coast. Skip to next paragraph The New York Times A wildfire approached Santa Catalina Island&#146;s main city, Avalon, on Thursday. People wait to be evacuated from the town of Avalon, Calif., as smoke from a wildfire rises in the background on Santa Catalina Island. At least 160 firefighters, aided by four water-dropping helicopters and three retardant-dropping air tankers, battled flames through most of Thursday. The helicopters flew into the night and were back in the air at dawn today. Dozens of fire engines from as far away as Fresno arrived through the night aboard giant military hovercraft from the Marine Corps base at Camp Pendleton. The high-speed hovercraft can carry 60 tons of cargo over land or water, and are often used by the military on humanitarian missions. The blaze broke out Thursday afternoon on the island, which is more than 20 miles off the coast. Flames threatened the city limits of Avalon, where hundreds of people lined up at the harbor Thursday night to board ferries back to the mainland. Many covered their faces with towels and bandanas as ashes fell around them. A few homes on the island were burned, but firefighters worked to protect other properties late into the night, said Steven Hoefs, the chief of the Avalon fire department. Some 1,200 homes were under voluntary or mandatory evacuation orders. “We’re hanging in for now,” Chief Hoefs said. The blaze, which began five miles east of the island’s airport, grew to cover 4,000 acres, feeding on dry brush and scrub as winds steadily blew throughout the day and into the night on Thursday. Winds later calmed and the air grew more humid, although the threat of fire remained. An orange inferno loomed behind the quaint crescent-shaped harbor, the landmark 1929 Catalina Casino, and the homes, restaurants and tiny hotels clinging to slopes above the Avalon waterfront. A commercial building and several warehouses burned, and 175 utility customers lost electricity when power poles caught on fire. Overnight, Blackhawk and Chinook helicopters were ferrying in firefighters, 32 at a time. Crews were being positioned at the city’s edge to protect homes. “We’re on defense mode for now,” Chief Hoefs said. In Avalon, authorities used a bullhorn to urge people to evacuate the city and head to the beach. Visitors to the island were directed to the historic Art Deco-style Casino building until it lost power, while residents were sent to another site along the harbor. The Catalina Express ferry service added several night departures of 400-passenger vessels from Avalon. Hundreds of residents and visitors boarded the ferries to reach the mainland. A family of eight said they had just enough time to pack some clothes and personal papers before fleeing. “I’m scared,” said Angelica Romero, 30, holding her 7-month-old daughter. “But what’s important is I have my children. The rest doesn’t matter.” At the mainland port of Long Beach, Kathy Troeger, a Santa Catalina resident, arrived by ferry with her three children and a friend’s daughter. Her husband, a fire captain, stayed behind to help fight the blaze. “It was like a nightmare when we left,” she said. “You couldn’t breathe, and ash was falling like snow.” An evacuation center was set up at Cabrillo High School, where about 85 people had checked in, according to the Red Cross. Santa Catalina has been left parched by the same lack of rainfall that has made the Southern California mainland particularly susceptible to wildfires, like the one in Griffith Park in Los Angeles earlier this week. Firefighters were still working there today to surround what remained of the fire, which briefly chased people from adjacent homes and threatened the park’s landmark observatory and its zoo. Los Angeles officials had expected the Griffith Park fire to be fully contained by Thursday, two days after it peaked, and no visible flames remained, but fire crews were still building containment lines around the fire’s perimeter late into the night. Only 2 inches of rain have fallen on Santa Catalina since January. The island is long and fairly narrow, covering a total of 76 square miles of land area, most of it owned and kept as a preserve by the Santa Catalina Island Conservancy. various wildlife. The populated areas are served by helicopters and ferry boats from Los Angeles, Long Beach and other mainland harbors. Avalon, the main town, has a year-round population of 3,200, but swells to more than 10,000 on weekends and in the summer, according to the Catalina Island Chamber of Commerce and Visitors Bureau. The Associated Press contributed to this report. More Articles in National &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. More Articles in National &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/us/11dallas.html?ex=1336536000&en=0212812bb6c94bc2&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	New Mayor but Familiar Issues on Dallas&#8217;s Horizon - New York Times New Mayor but Familiar Issues on Dallas’s Horizon Mark Graham for The New York Times Dallas, long troubled by crime, scandals, racial polarization and government gridlock, as seen across wetlands in the Trinity River project. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 DALLAS — The $69 margarita at N9NE Steakhouse in Ross Perot Jr.’s $3 billion Victory Park development is not the most expensive drink in town, but it is one way of toasting the better times that some see ahead for a long-struggling Big D. Skip to next paragraph Mark Graham for The New York Times Mayor Laura Miller is leaving office. “This is our version of Rodeo Drive,” said Mr. Perot, son of the software entrepreneur and 1992 presidential candidate, showing off his Riviera of boutiques on 75 acres of hotel towers, condos and clubs alongside his American Airlines Center, the sports arena near downtown, in what was, until 1998, a polluted brownfield of rusting railyards and industrial plants. Now the question is who will lead a resurgent Dallas. After five turbulent years, Laura Miller, perhaps the nation’s only investigative reporter turned big-city mayor, is not running again, setting off a wild scramble to head the nation’s ninth-largest metropolis, long troubled by crime, scandals, racial polarization and government gridlock. In an interview at City Hall, Ms. Miller, 48, voiced pride at the forest of construction cranes, the flowering of the arts district, and her partly successful fight against new coal-fired power plants in Texas. But she said: “I’m done with politics. I don’t particularly like it.” It was especially difficult, she said, for someone who had made her living “skewering” people to join them later at the council table. Ms. Miller’s exit leaves 12 candidates, including one under federal investigation, vying for mayor in the election on May 12. A June 16 runoff is likely. Upping the ante, a petition war is raging over the future of one of Dallas’s biggest public works projects ever — a 10,000-acre greenbelt along the Trinity River that could hold a dozen Central Parks, along with a toll road that critics say is larger than ever envisioned when voters approved a $246 million bond issue nearly a decade ago. If anything, said Ms. Miller, a champion of the project, battling for her legacy would be reason to run for a second full four-year term. (She finished the last year of her mayoral predecessor, Ron Kirk, when he left to run, unsuccessfully, for the But Ms. Miller, a mother of three, explained her decision by saying, “I’m not running because my 16-year-old daughter sat me down and said, ‘If you’re running again — and it looks like you’re running again, Mom—you will be throwing the towel in on all of us.’ ” With that, Ms. Miller said, “she started crying and I started crying — and that’s why I’m not running again.” She and her husband, Steve Wolens, a former state representative, also have a younger daughter and son. She might also have faced a tough re-election fight. For all the gloss of a Victory Park, there is also Deep Ellum, the once-vibrant blues district that has proved a graveyard of renewal hopes — “It’s just looking worse and worse all the time,” said Gianna Madrini, a fashion videographer who heads the neighborhood association — and a federal lawsuit is challenging the city’s restrictions on feeding the homeless in public. Ms. Miller’s retirement, announced last year, threw the race for mayor wide open, drawing among others, three business executives, Thomas C. Leppert, David Samuel Coats and Max Wells, widely regarded as front-runners; and a four-term councilman, Don Hill, a leader of African-Americans in city government who often clashed with Ms. Miller but now offers grudging praise. “It’s not how you start but how you finish,” Mr. Hill said, “and she’s finishing better than she started.” But Mr. Hill, the mayor pro tem, has been under the cloud of a federal investigation for two years since tapes leaked from an undercover operation revealed a developer’s negotiating a $50,000 payoff with a lawyer and contractors seeking Mr. Hill’s support for a commercial development. No charges have been brought against Mr. Hill, who was not heard on the tapes made public and who has denied any wrongdoing. “It’s been two years after the furor, the circus and the pressure, and I would like for them to clear my name,” Mr. Hill said in an interview at his campaign headquarters. The F.B.I. has not commented on the investigation. The corruption inquiry and leaks have deepened longstanding tensions among blacks in South Dallas, which has historically been shortchanged on development projects, schools and city services. Resentments have festered since Ms. Miller pressured the city manager to fire Dallas’s first African-American police chief after a scandal involving a drug-frame-up in 2003 before mobilizing the City Council to oust the city manager as well. Ms. Miller said that proved her dedication to good government. “If I had been a politician,” she said, “I never would have touched it.” Gretel C. Kovach contributed reporting. More Articles in National &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Bloomberg Invites Other Mayors to Town to Discuss Gun Crime Heady Days of J.R. and Landry Are History in Humbled Dallas National Briefing | Southwest: Texas: Effort To Recall Mayor Falls Short Ex-Journalist Wins Runoff for Dallas Mayor More Articles in National &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/pages/national/index.html?partner=rssnyt	National News - All Headlines - New York Times Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard By PATRICIA LEIGH BROWN Experts say that today&#146;s do-it-yourself mentality, in part, leads many people, like this driver in Burlington, Ontario, to haul large items. California is beginning to address the issue of deaths caused by accidents involving objects on highways. Wildfire Threatens a California Resort Island Firefighters struggled today to prevent a wildfire from reaching homes on the edge of Santa Catalina Island. Mixed Mood on Campus at Va. Tech Graduation Today, as parents arrived for graduation ceremonies, it was hard to tell the tears of joy from those of sadness. 6 Charged in Fort Dix Plot Held Without Bail The men, charged with plotting to attack Fort Dix, were arrested on Tuesday after a 15-month investigation. New Mayor but Familiar Issues on Dallas’s Horizon Twelve candidates are in a wild scramble to head the nation’s ninth-largest metropolis, long troubled by crime, scandals, racial polarization and government gridlock. F.D.A. Panel Seeks Limits on Cancer Patient Drugs Bowing to safety concerns, government medical advisers urged on Thursday that additional restrictions be put on the use of drugs that treat anemia in cancer patients. Romney Works to Put Skeptics’ Doubts to Rest Many conservative Christians are concerned about Mitt Romney’s religion and his recent shift on abortion rights. Democrats Push Gonzales on Attorney Dismissals Attorney General Alberto R. Gonzales stuck to his past assertions that the firings were appropriate. Men Apologize for Boston Cartoon Stunt Purdue Will Reinvestigate Its Professor Who Claimed Desktop Fusion U.S. Charges a Leading Chicago Political Figure With Fraud and Bribery Passage of Drug Safety Bill Was Common Goal for Two Very Different Senators Spellings Rejects Criticism on Student Loan Scandal Bush and Democrats in Accord on Labor Rights in Trade Deals Civil Liberties Advocate Named Ombudsman for Texas Youth Man Convicted in 1993 Restaurant Killings Dairy Council to End Ad Campaign That Linked Drinking Milk With Weight Loss Theodore Maiman, 79, Dies; Demonstrated First Laser Texas: Concern Over Buzzards Delays ‘Body Farm’ North Carolina: Immigrant Freed Over Demeaning Photograph California: Plan to Privatize Lottery California: Conviction in Secrets Case California: Ill Woman Is Dropping Marijuana Battle Washington: Whistle-Blower Ordered to Be Reinstated Names of the Dead Read profiles of the men and women killed in the shootings at Virginia Tech and share your thoughts and memories. : Recounting the Events at Virginia Tech A reconstruction of the shootings, with maps and diagrams of campus buildings. : Sex Offenders and Civil Commitment Civil commitment for sex offenders is gaining favor with lawmakers even as its stated purpose is almost never met. : Faces of the Dead An interactive look at the American service members who have died in Iraq. In Houston, Giuliani Defends Abortion Stance Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights On Carrier in Gulf, Cheney Warns Iran President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure House Passes Ban on Gifts From Student Lenders Harvard Task Force Calls for New Focus on Teaching and Not Just Research from the past 7 days enter keyword or date e.g. April 21, 2001 U.S. Queries Filmmaker on Cuba Trip for Movie By LAURA M. HOLSON The Treasury Department sent a letter to Michael Moore, a provocative filmmaker, to investigate whether he had violated restrictions on travel to Cuba. The Reach of War New York Times Polls Today in TimesSelect » Some parents of children with Down syndrome want prospective parents to know the positive side of raising a child with the genetic condition. Kunal Sah, 13, hopes that winning the Scripps National Spelling Bee will bring attention to the plight of his parents, who were deported to India. Julia Preston reports on how Maria Brizelda Amaya's family is coping with her deportation. Infant Mortality: A Legacy of Poverty Erik Eckholm reports on the intractable problem of infant mortality in poor Mississippi communities. News from AP &#x00bb; Armless, One - Legged Driver Leads Chase Va. Tech Graduations Honor Slain Victims Mysterious Object Probably Space Junk Knoxville Zoo Displays Albino Alligator Md. School Evacuated Over Odd Bottle Study Renews Debate Over Sows in Crates Find News By State Go to a State Page MOST POPULAR - U.S. Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Harvard Task Force Calls for New Focus on Teaching and Not Just Research Wildfire Threatens a California Resort Island New Mayor but Familiar Issues on Dallas&#8217;s Horizon Wildfire Threatens a Southern California Resort Island Europeans Press Wolfowitz to Quit as Bank Chief Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Purdue Will Reinvestigate Its Professor Who Claimed Desktop Fusion Wildfire Threatens a California Resort Island U.S. Queries Filmmaker on Cuba Trip for Movie Go to Complete List » Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus A Liberal Case for Gun Rights Helps Sway Judiciary Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix 6 Arrested in Plot to Attack Fort Dix Critic of Corps of Engineers Says Levee Repairs for New Orleans Show Signs of Flaws College Loan Official Resigns 50 Years Later, Little Rock Can't Escape Race Agency Affirms Mandates for Driver's Licenses Harvard Task Force Calls for New Focus on Teaching and Not Just Research Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Get up close to politics & more for $3.15 a week. What’s new on Broadway? Find a world of reasons to go. Browse movie reviews from 1913. Post a job online today! The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/health/11anemia.html?ex=1336536000&en=64815775ee883add&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	F.D.A. Panel Seeks Limits on Cancer Patient Drugs - New York Times Mental Health & Behavior F.D.A. Panel Seeks Limits on Cancer Patient Drugs Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 SILVER SPRING, Md., May 10 &#151; Bowing to safety concerns, government medical advisers urged on Thursday that additional restrictions be put on the use of drugs that treat The recommendations by an advisory committee to the Food and Drug Administration followed a flurry of studies suggesting that the drugs, meant to help patients cope with , might actually be making their cancer worse or hastening their deaths. The drugs &#151; Aranesp from Amgen and Procrit from Johnson &#38; Johnson &#151; are used by about a half-million American cancer patients a year and have billions of dollars in annual sales. Some members of the committee expressed shock that even though Procrit was first approved 14 years ago, it was still not clear if the drugs were safe at the doses typically used. &#8220;Yes, we have a burning question,&#8221; one panel member, Dr. Silvana Martino, an oncologist in Santa Monica, Calif., said at the meeting here. &#8220;Do these things kill people?&#8221; Most of the studies showing a risk involved use of the drugs at doses higher than doctors typically give them. That left the committee with the question of what to do about use of the drugs at the usual doses until more data become available. The F.D.A. has already clamped down on the drugs. In March it put strict new warnings on the labels, saying the products should be used at the smallest dosage that lets anemic patients avoid blood transfusions. But the panel&#8217;s votes Thursday portend even further restrictions. The committee voted 12 to 5, for instance, that the drugs should be barred from use by patients with certain types of cancer until more is known about their safety. While the committee did not specify which types, several members mentioned , non-small cell lung cancer and head and neck cancer. The committee voted 15 to 2 that there should be more restrictions in general if the drugs remain on the market, and 17 to 0 that more studies were needed. And it voted 16 to 1 that anemia therapy should be stopped when chemotherapy is finished. But in one victory for the drug makers, the committee voted 11 to 6 against lowering the ceiling on how much the anemia should be corrected. The labels now say that a patient&#8217;s hemoglobin, the oxygen-carrying component of red blood cells, should not be raised to more than 12 grams per deciliter of blood. The F.D.A. usually follows the recommendations of such panels. Dr. Richard Pazdur, director of the agency&#8217;s cancer drug division, said Thursday he could not say yet when or how the agency would act. The two drugs, along with another Amgen drug, Epogen, are also used to treat anemia caused by kidney disease, but yesterday&#8217;s meeting concerned only cancer treatment. Another hearing dealing with kidney disease will be held early in the fall. The panel&#8217;s recommendations were a particular blow to Amgen, which last year took in nearly half its $14.3 billion in revenue from the anemia drugs. Johnson &#38; Johnson is far larger and more diversified than Amgen, and so is less dependent on Procrit sales. &#8220;I think it&#8217;s worse than what investors expected,&#8221; Michael Aberman, an analyst who follows Amgen for Credit Suisse, said after the meeting. Amgen&#8217;s stock fell $5.77, or more than 9 percent, to close at $57.33. Trish Hawkins, an Amgen spokeswoman, said in a statement, &#8220;We will be working with the F.D.A. as they consider the committee&#8217;s recommendations.&#8221; The drugs, known generically as darbepoetin and epoetin, were approved to reduce the need for blood transfusions in patients with anemia from chemotherapy. Many doctors and patients believe the drugs fight fatigue and improve patients&#8217; daily lives, although the F.D.A. said it did not find studies with persuasive evidence of such benefits. A panel member from , Dr. Otis Brawley, said some doctors overprescribed the drugs because they made money from doing so. Doctors can sometimes receive more from insurers than they pay for the drugs, especially if they receive rebates from the manufacturers. Dr. Brawley said the drug companies had not done proper studies, and at one point asked them, &#8220;What data do you have to assure me that this is not Miracle-Gro for cancer?&#8221; The staff of the F.D.A. was also critical of the companies, saying they had not provided data they had promised when a similar advisory panel meeting was held in 2004. The companies and their advocates argued that ample data showed the drugs were safe when used properly, except for a long-known risk of increased blood clots. They also argued that the drugs had significant benefits. Forcing cancer patients to go back to transfusions, they said, would expose the patients to risks and inconvenience and further strain the nation&#8217;s already taxed blood supply. That sentiment was also voiced by some committee members. &#8220;I think the idea of going back to the dark ages in regards to supportive care is a step backward,&#8221; said Dr. S. Gail Eckhardt of the , the panel&#8217;s chairman. Advisory panel meetings often feature eloquent pleas from patients that a drug be approved or kept on the market. But there was not a big outpouring of support for the anemia drugs. In fact, some patients expressed dismay at how the drugs were used. &#8220;How is it possible that what was meant to help me might actually have made things worse?&#8221; said Lilla Romeo, who has had breast cancer since 1995. Next Article in Health (2 of 15) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. MARKET PLACE; Amgen Seeks To Reverse Its Bad News ImClone's Drug Fails in Pancreatic Cancer Study F.D.A. Approves Glaxo Cancer Drug Studies Show Anemia Drugs May Harm Cancer Patients Food and Drug Administration Next Article in Health (2 of 15) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » Everything you need to know about heart disease Hip resurfacing: is it right for you? The changing attitudes towards "chemo brain" Treating the awkward years Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/nyregion/11cnd-dix.html	6 Charged in Fort Dix Plot Held Without Bail - New York Times 6 Charged in Fort Dix Plot Held Without Bail Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 CAMDEN, N.J., May 11 — Six Muslim men from New Jersey and Philadelphia charged with plotting to attack Fort Dix with automatic weapons were ordered held without bail today by a federal magistrate here. The men were arrested on Monday night after a 15-month investigation in which the and two informers who had infiltrated the group taped them training with automatic weapons in rural Pennsylvania, conducting surveillance of military bases in the Northeast, watching videos of and the 9/11 hijackers and trying to buy AK-47 assault rifles. The authorities have described the suspects as Islamic extremists and have said they represent the newest breed of threat: loosely organized domestic militants unconnected to — but inspired by — or other international terror groups. Prosecutors argued today that the men, all of whom were born outside the United States, should be denied bail because they posed a flight risk. Only one of the men, Mohamad Shnewer, requested bail, with his family offering to put up four properties worth $580,000 and requesting that he be placed under house arrest with an electronic monitoring bracelet. An assistant United States attorney, Stephen R. Stigall, argued that house arrest offered no protection to the public because Mr. Shnewer “was living in that same house” as the plan to attack Fort Dix was being put together. United States Magistate Joel Schneider ordered that Mr. Shnewer, along with the five others, be held without bail. They have been held in a detention center in Philadelphia since their arrest. Five of the men — Mohamad Shnewer, 22; Serdar Tatar, 23; Dritan Duka, 28; Shain Duka, 26; and Eljvir Duka, 23 — are charged with conspiring to kill uniformed military personnel, an offense punishable by life in prison. The sixth man, Agron Abdullahu, 24, is charged with helping illegal immigrants obtain weapons, an offense punishable by up to 10 years in prison. He will have a more detailed bail hearing later this week. After the hearing, Michael Huff, the attorney for Dritan Duka, said that defending terror suspects is challenging, “This is post-9/11,” he said, according to The Associated Press. “This is one of the No. 1 things on the public’s mind.” Troy Archie, the lawyer for the defendant Eljvir Duka, complained about the conditions under which his client is being held. Mr. Archie said that Mr. Duka “is basically just sitting in a cell in solitary” and that he had not been allowed to talk to his family. Mr. Archie also said that Mr. Duka’s request for a Koran had been ignored. The defense lawyer also raised questions about the confidential informer who prosecutors said was central to the case. “I just don’t understand how someone could infiltrate an alleged terrorist organization, and my emphasis is on allege , within 30 days of meeting them,” Mr. Archie said. He also questioned the informer’s background, which he said included a criminal record. “Everyone in the community knew him,” Mr. Archie said, “and he was bad news.” More Articles in New York Region &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. More Articles in New York Region &#x00bb; A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Benjamin Franklin Bronze Portrait Bust Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/us/11debris.html	Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard - New York Times Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Experts say that today&#146;s do-it-yourself mentality, in part, leads many people, like this driver in Burlington, Ontario, to haul large items. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 SAN FRANCISCO, May 9 — It was just another rush hour. On eastbound Interstate 580 near Pleasanton recently, a rocking chair brought traffic to a near-standstill, while on southbound I-680 near Walnut Creek, a trampoline blocked two left lanes, wreaking havoc on the morning commute. Bagged loaves of sourdough bread blocked U.S. 101, near Petaluma. The highway patrol had to be dispatched. Skip to next paragraph An Average Mile of Litter Video: 'City of Trash' Public Service Announcement On the set of a commercial for a &#147;secure your load&#148; campaign in Washington State, staff members photographed an improperly loaded truck. Last month, a plastic sink was on the loose, stretched across two lanes of the San Mateo Bridge. The sink was something of a departure from the mattresses, aluminum ladders, sofas, buckets — with the occasional spilled Napa County grapes thrown in — that snarled traffic and contributed to the state’s daily accumulation of road debris. While by no means unique to California, pickup trucks and other vehicles piled high with improperly secured loads are a fact of life here, contributing — thanks to the laws of physics — to an estimated 140,000 cubic yards of road debris a year. That is enough to fill 8,750 garbage trucks, which would extend for 45 miles, said Tamie McGowen, a spokeswoman for Caltrans, the state transportation department. And it is increasingly hazardous, experts say. In California, 155 people lost their lives in the last two years after accidents involving objects on highways, and states are beginning to address the issue. Next week, a murder trial is set to begin in the death of a Los Angeles county deputy sheriff who was killed when he swerved to avoid a stolen stove that had fallen from a Long Beach man’s truck. In California and across the nation, where some freeway shoulders have come to resemble weekend yard sales, the nature of road debris has changed, and litter anthropologists are now studying the phenomenon. Where “deliberate” litter used to reign — those blithely tossed fast-food wrappers and the like — “unintentional” or “negligent” litter from poorly secured loads is making its presence felt. Steven R. Stein, a litter analyst for R. W. Beck, a waste-consulting firm in Maryland, attributes the change to more trash-hauling vehicles, including recycling trucks, and the ubiquity of pickup trucks on the country’s highways. In 1986, Mr. Stein said, two-thirds of the debris was deliberate, but surveys now show the litter seesaw balanced. He said the two most recent surveys indicated a further increase in unintentional litter. In Georgia, which recently quantified its litter, 66 percent of road debris comes from unintentional litter, largely unsecured loads. A study in Tennessee last year showed that 70 percent of the state’s debris was unintentional. By dint of its climate, size, population, lengthy growing season, increasingly long commutes and, perhaps, its casual lifestyle, California is a road-debris leader. It is also home to the country’s largest number of registered vehicles — 32 million, twice that of No. 2 Texas — and roughly four million pickup trucks, the most of any state, according to the Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers in Washington. No other state spends more on litter removal, in excess of $55 million, said Christine Flowers-Ewing, the executive director of Keep California Beautiful, a nonprofit environmental education organization. Motorists in California can be fined if anything other than feathers from live birds or water should escape. (In Nebraska, the exception is corn stalks; in Kentucky, coal.) Along with mudslides, brush fires and earthquakes, chance encounters with a set of box springs, a chintz cushion or a crate of lettuces are the daily stuff of radio traffic updates, recounted in excruciating detail. When a tractor-trailer full of freeze-dried oriental soup and vegetables spilled onto the I-710 freeway near Los Angeles, for example, “there was one from Column A, and one from Columns B and C,” said Peter Demetriou, a veteran traffic reporter for KFWB radio in Los Angeles. “The only problem was, it was Lane 1, Lane 2 and Lane 3.” Greg Williams, who has worked for the California Highway Patrol in Bakersfield for 27 years, cited a carrot truck spill in the fog on State Highway 84 as his worst case. “In cities, we chase furniture; in rural areas it’s cattle, sheep, horses, buckets and nails,” Mr. Williams said. “There’s nothing slipperier than a crushed carrot.” More Articles in National &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. California: Request to Toughen Truck Drivers&#8217; Rules National Briefing | West: California: Radio Show Pulled After Contest Death Death Rate on Highways Rises, and Motorcycles Are Blamed More Articles in National &#x00bb; A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/pages/national/index.html	National News - All Headlines - New York Times Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard By PATRICIA LEIGH BROWN Experts say that today&#146;s do-it-yourself mentality, in part, leads many people, like this driver in Burlington, Ontario, to haul large items. California is beginning to address the issue of deaths caused by accidents involving objects on highways. Wildfire Threatens a California Resort Island Firefighters struggled today to prevent a wildfire from reaching homes on the edge of Santa Catalina Island. Mixed Mood on Campus at Va. Tech Graduation Today, as parents arrived for graduation ceremonies, it was hard to tell the tears of joy from those of sadness. 6 Charged in Fort Dix Plot Held Without Bail The men, charged with plotting to attack Fort Dix, were arrested on Tuesday after a 15-month investigation. New Mayor but Familiar Issues on Dallas’s Horizon Twelve candidates are in a wild scramble to head the nation’s ninth-largest metropolis, long troubled by crime, scandals, racial polarization and government gridlock. F.D.A. Panel Seeks Limits on Cancer Patient Drugs Bowing to safety concerns, government medical advisers urged on Thursday that additional restrictions be put on the use of drugs that treat anemia in cancer patients. Romney Works to Put Skeptics’ Doubts to Rest Many conservative Christians are concerned about Mitt Romney’s religion and his recent shift on abortion rights. Democrats Push Gonzales on Attorney Dismissals Attorney General Alberto R. Gonzales stuck to his past assertions that the firings were appropriate. Men Apologize for Boston Cartoon Stunt Purdue Will Reinvestigate Its Professor Who Claimed Desktop Fusion U.S. Charges a Leading Chicago Political Figure With Fraud and Bribery Passage of Drug Safety Bill Was Common Goal for Two Very Different Senators Spellings Rejects Criticism on Student Loan Scandal Bush and Democrats in Accord on Labor Rights in Trade Deals Civil Liberties Advocate Named Ombudsman for Texas Youth Man Convicted in 1993 Restaurant Killings Dairy Council to End Ad Campaign That Linked Drinking Milk With Weight Loss Theodore Maiman, 79, Dies; Demonstrated First Laser Texas: Concern Over Buzzards Delays ‘Body Farm’ North Carolina: Immigrant Freed Over Demeaning Photograph California: Plan to Privatize Lottery California: Conviction in Secrets Case California: Ill Woman Is Dropping Marijuana Battle Washington: Whistle-Blower Ordered to Be Reinstated Names of the Dead Read profiles of the men and women killed in the shootings at Virginia Tech and share your thoughts and memories. : Recounting the Events at Virginia Tech A reconstruction of the shootings, with maps and diagrams of campus buildings. : Sex Offenders and Civil Commitment Civil commitment for sex offenders is gaining favor with lawmakers even as its stated purpose is almost never met. : Faces of the Dead An interactive look at the American service members who have died in Iraq. In Houston, Giuliani Defends Abortion Stance Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights On Carrier in Gulf, Cheney Warns Iran President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure House Passes Ban on Gifts From Student Lenders Harvard Task Force Calls for New Focus on Teaching and Not Just Research from the past 7 days enter keyword or date e.g. April 21, 2001 U.S. Queries Filmmaker on Cuba Trip for Movie By LAURA M. HOLSON The Treasury Department sent a letter to Michael Moore, a provocative filmmaker, to investigate whether he had violated restrictions on travel to Cuba. The Reach of War New York Times Polls Today in TimesSelect » Some parents of children with Down syndrome want prospective parents to know the positive side of raising a child with the genetic condition. Kunal Sah, 13, hopes that winning the Scripps National Spelling Bee will bring attention to the plight of his parents, who were deported to India. Julia Preston reports on how Maria Brizelda Amaya's family is coping with her deportation. Infant Mortality: A Legacy of Poverty Erik Eckholm reports on the intractable problem of infant mortality in poor Mississippi communities. News from AP &#x00bb; Armless, One - Legged Driver Leads Chase Va. Tech Graduations Honor Slain Victims Mysterious Object Probably Space Junk Knoxville Zoo Displays Albino Alligator Md. School Evacuated Over Odd Bottle Study Renews Debate Over Sows in Crates Find News By State Go to a State Page MOST POPULAR - U.S. Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Harvard Task Force Calls for New Focus on Teaching and Not Just Research Wildfire Threatens a California Resort Island New Mayor but Familiar Issues on Dallas&#8217;s Horizon Wildfire Threatens a Southern California Resort Island Europeans Press Wolfowitz to Quit as Bank Chief Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Purdue Will Reinvestigate Its Professor Who Claimed Desktop Fusion Wildfire Threatens a California Resort Island U.S. Queries Filmmaker on Cuba Trip for Movie Go to Complete List » Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus A Liberal Case for Gun Rights Helps Sway Judiciary Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix 6 Arrested in Plot to Attack Fort Dix Critic of Corps of Engineers Says Levee Repairs for New Orleans Show Signs of Flaws College Loan Official Resigns 50 Years Later, Little Rock Can't Escape Race Agency Affirms Mandates for Driver's Licenses Harvard Task Force Calls for New Focus on Teaching and Not Just Research Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Get up close to politics & more for $3.15 a week. Start your 30-day free trial of Times Reader today. What’s new on Broadway? Which gadget is getting all the buzz? Post a job online today! The New York Times Company
