http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/health/6646581.stm	BBC NEWS | Health | Cancer therapy cuts side effects Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 11:48 GMT 12:48 UK E-mail this to a friend Cancer therapy cuts side effects Chemotherapy can cause nasty side effects Scientists say they have developed a way to deliver lethal drug doses to tumours without causing side-effects, such as nausea and hair loss. The Australian team has used nanotechnology to create tiny particles which specifically attack cancer cells, but leave healthy tissue unaffected. The particles - or mini-cells - are tagged with anti-cancer antibodies so they zero in on their target. The research features in the journal Cancer Cell. There is no other system where you can get so much drug concentrated into a little parcel It is hoped the technique could treat tumours in the breast, ovaries, colon and lungs. So far it has been used in mice and dogs, and the researchers plan to begin human trials shortly. Traditional chemotherapy typically involves subjecting the patient's entire body to powerful drugs, which can cause a range of severe side-effects. The mini-cells - about one-fifth the size of a normal cell - were created from bacteria cells stripped of their reproductive powers. They were then loaded with cancer drugs, and tagged with antibodies which are attracted to cancerous tumours. Once the cell reaches the cancer, the drug is released directly into the malignant growth. Researcher Jennifer MacDiarmid, from Sydney-based biotechnology company EnGeneIC, said: "There is no other system where you can get so much drug concentrated into a little parcel." In tests, the technique reduced tumours in animals without side effects - and by using only a very small amount of drug. Dr MacDiarmid said the treatment could potentially be used on any solid tumours. She said the technique potentially paved the way for customised drug cocktails for individual patients. Professor Quentin Pankhurst, of the London Centre for Nanotechnology, said: "The concept of targeted drug delivery is something which has been around for a while and there are many different avenues that have been tested. "This one looks like an interesting and promising one. "I particularly like the fact that these mini-cells, as they call them, seem to be swallowed up by the cancer cells and taken inside the cancer cells, because that is inherently a very powerful way to actually deliver the drug - actually into the cell." E-mail this to a friend Genes control chemotherapy impact 11 Apr 07 | Health Hope over 'new generation' drugs 18 May 06 | Health London Centre for Nanotechnology The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Experts back folic acid in flour Aspirin 'prevents bowel cancer' Drinking at home 'cuts bingeing' MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/england/essex/6644841.stm	BBC NEWS | England | Essex | Gynaecologist lacked op consent Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Thursday, 10 May 2007, 20:02 GMT 21:02 UK E-mail this to a friend Gynaecologist lacked op consent The General Medical Council said the case was "wholly exceptional" A gynaecologist who failed to obtain consent from a woman for an operation which left her unable to have sex has not been struck off. The General Medical Council (GMC) ruled it had been an "exceptional" case that saw Essex-based Dr June Swinhoe fail in her practise. Marian Howland, 52, from Epping, had not been made aware of risks linked to her operation for a prolapse in 2003. The GMC panel ruled Dr Swinhoe posed no risk to patients. In March 2003, Dr Swinhoe was working as a consultant gynaecologist at King George Hospital in Ilford and privately at Holly House Hospital in Buckhurst Hill. I have lost a lot of my life and all unnecessarily Mrs Howland had been married for eight years when she visited Dr Swinhoe with a prolapse and discomfort during sex. She told the panel she was admitted for the prolapse to be repaired but was not informed of all the side effects or of any risks associated with the procedures. Dr Swinhoe had not taken a full medical history from Mrs Howland who had previously had a hysterectomy, her ovaries removed and become blind in one eye. In tears, Mrs Howland told the panel a few weeks after the operation it became clear she had been left unable to have sex, and had been left "shell-shocked". She added: "I have lost my best friend, my husband, my lover. "I have lost a lot of my life and all unnecessarily." The panel told Dr Swinhoe: "The deficiencies in your communication with Mrs Howland and your failure to obtain consent from her were an aberration and amount to an isolated departure from your usual high standards of professional competence and care. "The finding that your fitness is impaired is, in itself, a very significant mark on your record. "You have learned from this distressing experience. "This is a wholly exceptional case and in the circumstances the panel is satisfied that it is fair, proportionate and sufficient to conclude the case without taking any action in respect of your registration." E-mail this to a friend Sport, travel, leisure and more from the BBC website for Essex New lead over Oliver pub robbery Four arrested in drugs house raid Crews tackle fire at listed hotel MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/health/6639461.stm	BBC NEWS | Health | Oral sex linked to throat cancer Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Thursday, 10 May 2007, 07:40 GMT 08:40 UK E-mail this to a friend Oral sex linked to throat cancer Scientists looked at tissue samples from patients A virus contracted through oral sex is the cause of some throat cancers, say US scientists. HPV infection was found to be a much stronger risk factor than tobacco or alcohol use, the Johns Hopkins University study of 300 people found. The New England Journal of Medicine study said the risk was almost nine times higher for people who reported oral sex with more than six partners. But experts said a larger study was needed to confirm the findings. HPV infection is the cause of the majority of cervical cancers, and 80% of sexually active women can expect to have an HPV infection at some point in their lives. It is important for health care providers to know that people without the traditional risk factors of tobacco and alcohol use can nevertheless be at risk of oropharyngeal cancer Dr Gypsyamber D'Souza, study author The Johns Hopkins study took blood and saliva from 100 men and women newly diagnosed with oropharyngeal cancer which affects the throat, tonsils and back of the tongue. They also asked questions about sex practices and other risk factors for the disease, such as family history. Those who had evidence of prior oral HPV infection had a 32-fold increased risk of throat cancer. HPV16 - one of the most common cancer-causing strains of the virus - was present in the tumours of 72% of cancer patients in the study. There was no added risk for people infected with HPV who also smoked and drank alcohol, suggesting the virus itself is driving the risk of the cancer. Oral sex was said to be the main mode of transmission of HPV but the researchers said mouth-to-mouth transmission, for example through kissing, could not be ruled out. Most HPV infections clear with little or no symptoms but a small percentage of people who acquired high-risk strains may develop a cancer, the researchers added. Study author Dr Gypsyamber D'Souza said: "It is important for health care providers to know that people without the traditional risk factors of tobacco and alcohol use can nevertheless be at risk of oropharyngeal cancer." Co-researcher Dr Maura Gillison said previous research by the team had suggested there was a strong link. But she added: "People should be reassured that oropharyngeal cancer is relatively uncommon and the overwhelming majority of people with an oral HPV infection probably will not get throat cancer." A vaccine which protects against cervical cancer caused by HPV strains 6, 11, 16 and 18, and also against genital warts is available and the researchers said the study provided a rationale for vaccinating both girls and boys. But whether the vaccine would protect against oral HPV infection is not yet known. Dr Julie Sharp, science information officer at Cancer Research UK, said: "There is conflicting evidence about the role of HPV, and this rare type of mouth cancer. "As this was a small study, further research is needed to confirm these observations." "We know that after age, the main causes of mouth cancer are smoking or chewing tobacco or betel nut, and drinking too much alcohol." E-mail this to a friend Cancer jab plea for girls aged 11 06 Oct 06 | Health Virus causes most cervical cancer 23 Sep 03 | Health Oral cancer fear for Asians 03 Mar 03 | Health Cervical cancer vaccine success 20 Nov 02 | Health New England Journal of Medicine Johns Hopkins Cancer Center Condom Essential Wear campaign The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Experts back folic acid in flour Aspirin 'prevents bowel cancer' Drinking at home 'cuts bingeing' MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/education/6641811.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Toddlers to get help with talking Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Thursday, 10 May 2007, 10:28 GMT 11:28 UK E-mail this to a friend Toddlers to get help with talking One in 10 children have a communication disability Toddlers are to get help learning how to talk in a bid to cut the numbers of children starting school with poor language skills for their age. Half of children enter primary school unable to speak as well as they are expected to, research suggests. The Early Talk programme which uses gestures, symbols and signing to expand vocabulary, is being piloted in 200 government-backed children's centres. It will also be used to target youngsters with potential difficulties. Television doesn't respond well to children. ICAN head of Early Years Clare Geldard, head of Early Years for the charity behind the programme, I CAN, said there were concerns that the number of pre-school children with speech and language difficulties was on the rise. "We don't know why this is the case and I am sure there are a myriad of reasons. "We know that television can be used in a really productive way in terms of watching a piece of television and then having a conversation about it afterwards, but we also know that television doesn't respond well to children. "It does not give them the interactivity that children and adults instinctively seek from adults." She said the Early Talk programme was about ensuring that nursery staff, childminders and parents had the basic skills they needed to enhance children's speech, language and communication. "Everybody needs to have a basic knowledge about what we can do to enhance children's speech and language development," she said. But it was also about ensuring that those children who had the potential to go on to develop speech and language difficulties were picked up early and given the help they need. I CAN's chief executive Virginia Beardshaw said one in 10 children across the UK were thought to have a communication disability. She added that the Early Talk programme, which will ultimately be rolled out to 3,000 Sure Start children's centres, would foster environments "where communication is embedded". This would range from using pictures, symbols and gestures to teach vocabulary to using group work and specialist help from speech and language therapists, she said. Children's minister Beverley Hughes said: "Communication is a vital skill in life and we want to help all children communicate better and reap the rewards of that later in life. "This is especially important for children who have trouble communicating - particularly those with a communication disability - who are much more likely to develop behavioural and learning problems." She said she hoped the partnership being announced would play a vital role in identifying children's difficulties at an early stage. Nursery and children's centre staff will be given training and packages of support to help ensure children's language skills are polished and it is hoped this will be passed on to parents and children's carers. E-mail this to a friend Communication skills 'cut re-offending' 05 May 07 | Health 'Double blow' for autistic pupils 16 Apr 07 | Education Autism 'more common than thought' 13 Jul 06 | Health 'Two languages' call for children 21 Feb 07 | Edinburgh and East The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows City teachers could get more cash MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/england/beds/bucks/herts/6647995.stm	BBC NEWS | England | Beds/Bucks/Herts | Screening as pupils contract TB Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 16:35 GMT 17:35 UK E-mail this to a friend Screening as pupils contract TB Early diagnosis is key to treating TB Pupils and teachers at a junior school are being screened for TB after four pupils tested positive for the disease. A letter was sent to parents of pupils at Southfields Junior School, in Luton, Beds, offering the tests after a pupil displayed symptoms of tuberculosis. Three of his classmates were confirmed to also be in the early stages of the disease, which the Health Protection Agency said is not contracted easily. Luton has three times as many incidents of TB than the national average. The bacteria, which commonly affects the lungs, is on the increase nationally, the Health Protection Agency has said. The affected pupils are being treated with antibiotics and the school has offered the screening as a precaution. E-mail this to a friend BBC Beds Bucks and Herts Travel, leisure, sport, message boards and much more Tuberculosis testing at hospital 11 May 07 | North East/N Isles Tuberculosis cases 'are rising' 22 Mar 07 | Health The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Screening as pupils contract TB Bronson gets payout from prison Cyclist killed in van collision MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/health/6639461.stm	BBC NEWS | Health | Oral sex linked to throat cancer Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Thursday, 10 May 2007, 07:40 GMT 08:40 UK E-mail this to a friend Oral sex linked to throat cancer Scientists looked at tissue samples from patients A virus contracted through oral sex is the cause of some throat cancers, say US scientists. HPV infection was found to be a much stronger risk factor than tobacco or alcohol use, the Johns Hopkins University study of 300 people found. The New England Journal of Medicine study said the risk was almost nine times higher for people who reported oral sex with more than six partners. But experts said a larger study was needed to confirm the findings. HPV infection is the cause of the majority of cervical cancers, and 80% of sexually active women can expect to have an HPV infection at some point in their lives. It is important for health care providers to know that people without the traditional risk factors of tobacco and alcohol use can nevertheless be at risk of oropharyngeal cancer Dr Gypsyamber D'Souza, study author The Johns Hopkins study took blood and saliva from 100 men and women newly diagnosed with oropharyngeal cancer which affects the throat, tonsils and back of the tongue. They also asked questions about sex practices and other risk factors for the disease, such as family history. Those who had evidence of prior oral HPV infection had a 32-fold increased risk of throat cancer. HPV16 - one of the most common cancer-causing strains of the virus - was present in the tumours of 72% of cancer patients in the study. There was no added risk for people infected with HPV who also smoked and drank alcohol, suggesting the virus itself is driving the risk of the cancer. Oral sex was said to be the main mode of transmission of HPV but the researchers said mouth-to-mouth transmission, for example through kissing, could not be ruled out. Most HPV infections clear with little or no symptoms but a small percentage of people who acquired high-risk strains may develop a cancer, the researchers added. Study author Dr Gypsyamber D'Souza said: "It is important for health care providers to know that people without the traditional risk factors of tobacco and alcohol use can nevertheless be at risk of oropharyngeal cancer." Co-researcher Dr Maura Gillison said previous research by the team had suggested there was a strong link. But she added: "People should be reassured that oropharyngeal cancer is relatively uncommon and the overwhelming majority of people with an oral HPV infection probably will not get throat cancer." A vaccine which protects against cervical cancer caused by HPV strains 6, 11, 16 and 18, and also against genital warts is available and the researchers said the study provided a rationale for vaccinating both girls and boys. But whether the vaccine would protect against oral HPV infection is not yet known. Dr Julie Sharp, science information officer at Cancer Research UK, said: "There is conflicting evidence about the role of HPV, and this rare type of mouth cancer. "As this was a small study, further research is needed to confirm these observations." "We know that after age, the main causes of mouth cancer are smoking or chewing tobacco or betel nut, and drinking too much alcohol." E-mail this to a friend Cancer jab plea for girls aged 11 06 Oct 06 | Health Virus causes most cervical cancer 23 Sep 03 | Health Oral cancer fear for Asians 03 Mar 03 | Health Cervical cancer vaccine success 20 Nov 02 | Health New England Journal of Medicine Johns Hopkins Cancer Center Condom Essential Wear campaign The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Experts back folic acid in flour Aspirin 'prevents bowel cancer' Drinking at home 'cuts bingeing' MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/health/6639711.stm	BBC NEWS | Health | UK licence for breast cancer drug Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Thursday, 10 May 2007, 10:34 GMT 11:34 UK E-mail this to a friend UK licence for breast cancer drug The drug may extend life for some women A new drug has been licensed to treat UK patients with advanced breast cancer that has begun to spread. However, patients may find problems getting Avastin, as the NHS drugs watchdogs have yet to consider whether to sanction its use. The drug is designed to be used in tandem with another chemotherapy agent, paclitaxel. Avastin, which works by starving cancer cells of a blood supply, has previously been used to treat bowel cancer. All breast cancer treatments will have risks and benefits so it is vital women have all the information they need to make informed decisions about their treatment options However, the drug was rejected for NHS use in England and Wales for that purpose last year. The National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence (NICE) ruled that it was not cost-effective. In trials, breast cancer patients who took Avastin and paclitaxel went an average of 13 months without their cancer growing, compared with an average of 6.7 months for patients who took paclitaxel alone. Professor David Miles, a consultant medical oncologist at the Mount Vernon Cancer Centre, Middlesex, said: "This provides some hope for the 13,000 patients a year that are told the devastating news they have metastatic breast cancer which cannot be cured with surgery. "It is an important step forward to have discovered another targeted treatment which can inhibit the growth of breast cancer and as a result increase significantly the time that patients' breast cancer is controlled." Dr Emma Pennery, a nurse consultant at the charity Breast Cancer Care, said women with secondary breast cancer would welcome any treatment that could potentially slow down the progression of their disease. "This announcement means that there is now another treatment option available, adding to the growing range of targeted drugs for breast cancer." Dr Pennery called on the National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence (NICE) and the Scottish Medicines Consortium to appraise the drug as soon as possible. Dr Sarah Rawlings, of the charity Breakthrough Breast Cancer, said: "The development of targeted therapies like this is an important step forward in cancer treatment. "Avastin is an additional treatment option that will be welcomed by women with metastatic breast cancer, although it's important to remember it might not be suitable for everyone. "All breast cancer treatments will have risks and benefits so it is vital women have all the information they need to make informed decisions about their treatment options. "Any woman concerned should discuss this with her doctor." E-mail this to a friend Breast cancer drug cocktail hope 23 Mar 06 | Health US approves new cancer drug 27 Feb 04 | Health 30 Jan 04 | Medical notes National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Experts back folic acid in flour Aspirin 'prevents bowel cancer' Drinking at home 'cuts bingeing' MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/hi/english/static/in_depth/health/2000/heart_disease/default.stm	BBC News | Health | Heart Disease The UK has one of the highest rates of death from heart disease in the world - one British adult dies from the disease every three minutes - and stroke is the country's third biggest killer, claiming 70,000 lives each year. Heart attacks occur when blood flow is blocked, often by a blood clot, while strokes are caused either by blocked or burst blood vessels in the brain. A range of other conditions, including heart failure, when blood is not pumped properly around the body, and congenital heart defects can also cause long term problems, and even death, for sufferers. - The blood returns from the lungs to the upper left chamber of the heart where it is again briefly stored until the atrium fills, before flowing on to the left ventricle. - “Impure” or “blue” blood returning from the atrium enters the heart here, where it is held until the atrium - or chamber - fills up. - This is the most powerful chamber of the heart. It pumps the newly oxygenated blood to the rest of the body through the aorta, or main artery. - This powerful pump propels blood into the pulmonary artery, the tube which carries blood to the lungs, where carbon dioxide in the blood is removed and oxygen added.
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/help/rss/4498287.stm	BBC NEWS | Help | RSS | BBC RSS Feed: Standard Licence Terms Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it BBC RSS Feed: Standard Licence Terms By downloading a BBC RSS Feed ( "BBC Feed") from the British Broadcasting Corporation ("BBC") you agree to be bound by the terms set out below (the "Standard Licence Terms"). These Standard Licence Terms may be updated by the BBC from time to time. Please review these Standard Licence Terms each time you download a BBC Feed. Your download and/or use of a BBC Feed indicates your agreement to these Standard Licence Terms. 1.1 Subject to the terms of this Agreement the BBC grants you a non-transferrable, non-sublicensable, royalty free non-exclusive licence to display on your website ("Site") the headlines, active links or other source identifiers and other information or materials that you specifically select to receive from the BBC via the BBC Feed ("BBC Content"). 1.2 All title, ownership rights and intellectual property rights in and to the BBC Feed shall remain the property of the BBC. 1.3 Nothing in these Standard Licence Terms grants you any right to use the BBC trade mark on your Site or elsewhere. 2. Use of BBC Content 2.1 You may not use the Feed or display any BBC Content on any Site that is a web site that is excluded by the BBC (scroll down for the list of Excluded Websites as may be amended by the BBC from time to time). 2.2 YOU MUST ENSURE THAT ALL BBC CONTENT ON YOUR SITE HAS AN ACCREDITATION TO THE BBC IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE BBC ACCREDITATION GUIDELINES FROM TIME TO TIME (SCROLL DOWN FOR THE BBC ACCREDITATION GUIDELINES AS MAY BE AMENDED BY THE BBC FROM TIME TO TIME). 2.3 YOU MAY NOT DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY CHARGE USERS SPECIFICALLY FOR ACCESSING BBC CONTENT OR OTHERWISE COMMERCIALISE SUCH CONTENT, NOR ATTEMPT TO RE-SELL THE BBC CONTENT IN ANY WAY. 2.4 Where possible you must create a functional link back to the BBC News story(ies) summarised by the BBC Content . If you are displaying the BBC Feed where a functional link back to the BBC is not possible, you must display on-screen the URL from which the BBC Content can be obtained (scroll down to the accreditation section below.) You may not directly or indirectly change, edit, add to or produce summaries of the BBC Content or any content on the BBC website nor place any full-story BBC content in an HTML frame-set. 2.5 You may not directly or indirectly suggest any endorsement or approval by the BBC of your Site or any non-BBC entity, product or content or any views expressed within your site or service. 2.6 You acknowledge that the BBC has absolute editorial control over all BBC Content and you accept that the BBC is editorially independent and that the editorial integrity of the BBC Content is the sole responsibility of the BBC. 2.7 Should you receive any enquiries which relate to the BBC or the BBC Content you should promptly refer such enquiries to www.bbc.co.uk/info/contactus. 3. Warranties & Liability 3.1 You warrant to the BBC that: (i) you have fully complied with, and shall continue to comply fully with, all applicable laws and regulations; (ii) the Site shall contain no material which is libellous, defamatory, pornographic, obscene or which brings the BBC into disrepute, or which is in breach of any third party intellectual property rights; and (iii) users of the Site shall be required to comply with terms that are equivalent to the Standard Licence Terms in relation to their use of BBC Content. 3.2 The BBC Feed is made available by the BBC on an "as is" and "as available" basis and the BBC gives no warranty of any kind in relation to the BBC Feed, the BBC Content, or any content on the BBC website. The BBC disclaims all implied warranties, including but not limited to the implied warranties of satisfactory quality, fitness for a particular purpose, non-infringement, compatibility, and accuracy regarding the BBC Content, the BBC Feed and the BBC website and any content thereon. 3.3 TO THE MAXIMUM EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW THE BBC EXCLUDES ALL LIABILITY TO YOU FOR ANY LOSS OR DAMAGE HOWSOEVER ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THIS AGREEMENT, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO ANY LIABILITY ARISING IN RELATION TO THE BBC FEED, THE BBC CONTENT OR ANY CONTENT ON THE BBC WEBSITE, ANY VIRUS OR OTHER CONTAMINATION OR ANY UNAVAILABILITY OF BBC CONTENT. 3.4 Each provision of this Clause 3 operates separately in itself and survives independently of the others. 4.1 You hereby agree to indemnify, hold harmless and defend the BBC in respect of all damages, costs and expenses, including reasonable legal fees and litigation expenses, arising out of or as a result of any breach of the Standard Licence Terms or otherwise in connection with your use of the BBC Feed (including the BBC Content). 5.1 You may terminate this Agreement and the licence granted herein at any time by destroying or removing all copies of the BBC Feed (including the BBC Content) from your Site, all hard drives, networks and other storage media. 5.2 The BBC may restrict, suspend or terminate the BBC Feed, this Agreement, the licence granted herein or your access to the BBC Feed at any time without liability. You agree to destroy all copies of the BBC Feed (including the BBC Content) upon receiving notice of termination from the BBC. 5.3 Clauses 3, 4 and 6 shall survive termination of this Agreement. 6.1 Neither party may assign, charge, sublicense or otherwise deal with its rights or obligations in this Agreement in whole or in part to any third party. 6.2 This Agreement supersedes all prior agreements, arrangements and understandings between the parties concerning its subject matter. Each of the parties acknowledges that it has not relied on any statement made by the other in the course of entering into this Agreement. 6.3 Any failure or delay by either party in exercising its rights under any provisions of this Agreement shall not be construed as a waiver of those rights at any time now or in the future. 6.4 This Agreement shall be governed by, construed and take effect in accordance with English law and the English courts shall have exclusive jurisdiction to settle any claim or dispute which may arise out of or in connection with this Agreement. The BBC's RSS feeds and any BBC content contained in the BBC RSS feeds may only be displayed on websites that do not fall into any one or more of the categories listed below. A site will be deemed to fall within one of the following categories where there is a material and prominent section of the Site that falls within such category. 1. Sites that incite hatred whether based on race, religion, gender, sexuality or otherwise, or promote encourage or facilitate anti-social behaviour 2. Sites that promote, encourage or facilitate violence 3. Sites that promote, encourage or facilitate terrorism or other activities that risk UK national security 4. Sites that discriminate against any specific social group or otherwise exploit vulnerable sections of society 5. Sites that promote, facilitate or encourage illegal activity 6. Sites which are misleading, pornographic, defamatory, or that contain illegal, or otherwise actionable content under UK law 7. Sites which infringe individual privacy (based on the parameters laid down in the "Privacy" chapter of the BBC's Any BBC RSS feed or BBC content on your site must incorporate an attribution (credit) to the BBC in one of the following forms: "From BBC News / BBC Sport / bbc.co.uk" (delete as applicable), or "This content / article is from BBC News / BBC Sport/ the BBC News website / the BBC Sport website / bbc.co.uk" (delete as applicable) If you are displaying a BBC RSS feed in a context where a functional link back to the article on the BBC's website is not possible then you use the following attribution (credit) From bbc.co.uk/news or bbc.co.uk/sport (delete as applicable) If used as part of the BBC BackStage project, then the following wording needs to be added: You may not use any BBC logo or other BBC trade mark without signing a BBC trade mark licence agreement. MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/health/6645651.stm	BBC NEWS | Health | Drinking at home 'cuts bingeing' Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 10:14 GMT 11:14 UK E-mail this to a friend Drinking at home 'cuts bingeing' Teenage drinking is a major public health problem Teenagers who drink alcohol with their parents in moderation are less likely to binge drink, research suggests. The study also said that parents who do not want their children to drink behind their backs should limit their pocket money to less than £10 a week. The study, led by Liverpool John Moores University, was based on responses from more than 10,000 15 and 16-year-olds. Almost 90% admitted to drinking alcohol, of which 38% binged, 24% drank frequently and 50% drank in public. Drinking in the home environment, if it is done properly, can teach young people respect for alcohol Liverpool John Moores University The study also found a third of respondents bought their own alcohol, and those that did were six times more likely to drink in public, and twice as likely to binge than those who had alcohol bought for them. Last month the charity Alcohol Concern called for parents who give alcohol to children aged under 15 to be prosecuted following figures suggesting a large increase in alcohol consumption by 11 to 13-year-olds. But the latest study, published in the journal Substance Abuse Treatment, Prevention, and Policy, questions this approach. Lead researcher Dr Mark Bellis said figures suggested that 75% of 14-year-olds had tried alcohol. "The question is: are they learning to drink from their parents in a socially responsible environment, or are they learning behind some bushes in the park, or in a bar where they should not be in the first place? "The chances are if they are in the latter position they are learning to binge drink, they are hiding their drinking, they can't talk to their parents about it. "Drinking in the home environment, if it is done properly, can teach young people respect for alcohol, and how to consume in moderation." Dr Bellis said criminalising a parent for allowing a child to drink was probably not going to help any family. Frank Soodeen, campaigns officer for Alcohol Concern, said the charity had taken its lead from the law, which prohibits under-15s from being served alcohol in public places. He agreed that it was appropriate for parents to allow drinking in the home for older teenagers - but reiterated the charity's view that younger teenagers should not be encouraged to drink. He said: "We agree that parents have a real role to play in raising socially responsible drinkers." The researchers say that increasing the cost of alcohol, and closing down retailers who sell to underage drinkers could help tackle the problem. E-mail this to a friend Call to stop children's drinking 27 Apr 07 | UK Drink campaign 'has wrong focus' 17 Mar 07 | UK Shows 'encourage teen drinking' 10 Mar 07 | Health Call to raise drinking age to 21 15 Apr 07 | Health Liverpool John Moores University Substance Abuse Treatment, Prevention, and Policy The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Experts back folic acid in flour Aspirin 'prevents bowel cancer' Drinking at home 'cuts bingeing' MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/health/6643547.stm	BBC NEWS | Health | Aspirin 'prevents bowel cancer' Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Thursday, 10 May 2007, 23:01 GMT 00:01 UK E-mail this to a friend Aspirin 'prevents bowel cancer' Aspirin could benefit high-risk groups, the study says Taking aspirin each day can prevent bowel cancer developing, a study says. Oxford University researchers said taking a dose of 300mg a day for five years offered the protection. Long-term aspirin use is generally not backed because of the risk of stomach problems, but the team said it could benefit those at high-risk of cancer. Cancer campaigners welcomed the study - published in the Lancet - which examined data from previous research covering more than 7,500 people. These findings are not an indication that the general population should rush out and take what is a high dosage of aspirin on a daily basis. Each year, around 35,000 men and women in the UK are diagnosed with bowel cancer, and more than 16,000 die from the disease. The researchers looked at the results from two large-scale UK trials carried out in the late 1970s and early 1980s covering over 7,500 people which had given some people 300, 500 or 1,200mg per day doses of aspirin or a dummy pill for five to seven years. The people in the study were then followed for up to 20 years, and deaths from bowel cancer were logged. The team say it takes at least 10 years to see an effect, because that is how long it takes for a pre-cancerous growths to develop into cancer. Other studies have examined aspirin's benefits. However, this was the first where people were allocated to take different doses of the drug, or the fake version, rather than looking back at the aspirin use of bowel cancer patients and comparing them with healthy people. High risk group 'benefit' The researchers found that taking 300mg of aspirin - the equivalent of one pill - a day for five years reduced the incidence of bowel cancer by 74% in the subsequent 10 to 15 years. An accompanying review of 30 observational studies suggested taking medium-to-high doses of aspirin for 10 years or more reduced the risk of developing the disease by 50%-70%. The protective effect of aspirin appeared to be consistent regardless of age, sex, race or country of origin. It was also seen in individuals who had a close family relative with bowel cancer, which normally raises the lifetime risk two to four times. Professor Peter Rothwell, who led the research, said: "What we are saying is that for a subgroup of people at high risk of bowel cancer, they probably aren't going to be dramatically harmed by taking aspirin. "They may have some risk of bleeding in the stomach, but they will see potentially significant benefits in the reduction of their colon cancer risk. "In that situation, I think taking aspirin daily would be worthwhile." Dr Andrew Chan, from Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston, writing in the Lancet, said the findings were "convincing evidence" that aspirin can reduce the incidence of bowel cancer. But he added: "With the concerns about the potential risks of long-term aspirin use and the availability of alternative prevention strategies - such as screening - these findings are not sufficient to warrant a recommendation for the general population to use aspirin for cancer prevention." Rob Glynne-Jones, chief medical advisor to the charity Bowel Cancer UK, said: "This is very interesting and it certainly confirms what we already know and believe about the links between aspirin, polyps and the development of bowel cancer. "However, these findings are not an indication that the general population should rush out and take what is a high dosage of aspirin on a daily basis. "Aspirin at this dose over a prolonged period of time could lead to potentially serious side effects in a few people." E-mail this to a friend VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS The study's findings about aspirin and bowel cancer Aspirin 'cuts bowel cancer risk' 23 Aug 05 | Health Aspirin cuts breast cancer risk 26 May 04 | Health Aspirin: A century of good news 26 Jun 02 | Health The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Experts back folic acid in flour Aspirin 'prevents bowel cancer' Drinking at home 'cuts bingeing' MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/england/north_yorkshire/6645923.stm	BBC NEWS | England | North Yorkshire | Scientists create 'plastic' blood Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 09:08 GMT 10:08 UK E-mail this to a friend Scientists create 'plastic' blood The researchers said the artificial blood was easier to store Scientists have developed an artificial plastic blood which could act as a substitute in emergencies. Researchers at Sheffield University said their creation could be a huge advantage in war zones. They say that the artificial blood is light to carry, does not need to be kept cool and can be kept for longer. The new blood is made up of plastic molecules that have an iron atom at their core, like haemoglobin, that can carry oxygen through the body. The scientists said the artificial blood could be cheap to produce and they were looking for extra funding to develop a final prototype that would be suitable for biological testing. Dr Lance Twyman, of the university's Department of Chemistry, said: "We are very excited about the potential for this product and about the fact that this could save lives. "Many people die from superficial wounds when they are trapped in an accident or are injured on the battlefield and can't get blood before they get to hospital. "This product can be stored a lot more easily than blood, meaning large quantities could be carried easily by ambulances and the armed forces." A sample of the artificial blood prototype will be on display at the Science Museum in London from 22 May as part of an exhibition about the history of plastics. E-mail this to a friend Sport, travel, leisure and more from the BBC website for South Yorkshire The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites TOP NORTH YORKSHIRE STORIES Policeman jailed over child sex Battlefield homes get green light Allotment produce declared safe MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/scotland/6641115.stm	BBC NEWS | Scotland | Warning as tick diseases on rise Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Thursday, 10 May 2007, 08:45 GMT 09:45 UK E-mail this to a friend Warning as tick diseases on rise Diseases spread by ticks have risen over the past few years The public has been warned to take extra precautions against ticks as the warm weather heralds a peak in numbers of the blood-sucking parasites. It follows a huge rise in cases of Lyme Disease in Scotland and encephalitis amongst travellers to mainland Europe, spread by ticks. Both infections are severely debilitating and can be fatal. A decade ago there were just 10 cases of Lyme Disease in Scotland, but last year that figure had risen to 177. In mainland Europe, tick-borne encephalitis is also on the rise and is now endemic in 27 countries. Make sure you know about bite prevention, how to look out for the early symptoms and remember to seek advice The advice to anyone heading into the countryside is to wear insect repellent and long trousers if possible and to check themselves thoroughly afterwards. Ticks should be removed by gripping them close to the skin with tweezers and pulling backwards without jerking or twisting. They are common in woodland, heath land and in particular areas in Scotland where deer graze. More recently they have also been found in urban parks. A spokesman for the Tick Alert campaign said: "Ticks are second only to mosquitoes for carrying disease to humans. "Travellers and holidaymakers visiting rural areas are at risk from tick bites, but also when spending time in public spaces including beer gardens, picnic spots and parks and gardens. "Make sure you know about bite prevention, how to look out for the early symptoms and remember to seek advice well before your travel date." Wear trousers tucked into socks Check warm folds of the skin Carefully remove with tweezers Do not try to drown in Vaseline Be aware of favoured habitats Lyme disease varies widely but can include a rash and flu-like symptoms in its initial stage, followed by the possibility of musculoskeletal, arthritic, neurological, psychiatric and cardiac problems. Most cases of Lyme disease can be cured with antibiotics, especially if treatment is begun early in the course of illness. Katrina Anderson, from Edinburgh, became ill after she was bitten by a tick in 1991. She was misdiagnosed by her GP who blamed ME for her chronic fatigue and it took another two years before she was told by a specialist that she had contracted Lyme disease. Ms Anderson said: "At the time I was actually very ill. I became very flu-like with muscle pains, constant headaches. "It was like having a virus. It's like a hidden illness. You don't actually see what the person is suffering from. "It can affect all aspects of your nervous system." E-mail this to a friend VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS A number of precautions can be taken against ticks Call to help fight tick problem 13 Mar 06 | Scotland Paralysed by a tick bite 25 Nov 05 | Norfolk Lyme Disease found on hill range 30 Aug 05 | Somerset Health - Lyme disease Borreliosis and Associated Diseases Awareness UK The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites City vigil for missing Madeleine Osprey makes up with mate SNP and Greens sign working deal MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/health/6645651.stm	BBC NEWS | Health | Drinking at home 'cuts bingeing' Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 10:14 GMT 11:14 UK E-mail this to a friend Drinking at home 'cuts bingeing' Teenage drinking is a major public health problem Teenagers who drink alcohol with their parents in moderation are less likely to binge drink, research suggests. The study also said that parents who do not want their children to drink behind their backs should limit their pocket money to less than £10 a week. The study, led by Liverpool John Moores University, was based on responses from more than 10,000 15 and 16-year-olds. Almost 90% admitted to drinking alcohol, of which 38% binged, 24% drank frequently and 50% drank in public. Drinking in the home environment, if it is done properly, can teach young people respect for alcohol Liverpool John Moores University The study also found a third of respondents bought their own alcohol, and those that did were six times more likely to drink in public, and twice as likely to binge than those who had alcohol bought for them. Last month the charity Alcohol Concern called for parents who give alcohol to children aged under 15 to be prosecuted following figures suggesting a large increase in alcohol consumption by 11 to 13-year-olds. But the latest study, published in the journal Substance Abuse Treatment, Prevention, and Policy, questions this approach. Lead researcher Dr Mark Bellis said figures suggested that 75% of 14-year-olds had tried alcohol. "The question is: are they learning to drink from their parents in a socially responsible environment, or are they learning behind some bushes in the park, or in a bar where they should not be in the first place? "The chances are if they are in the latter position they are learning to binge drink, they are hiding their drinking, they can't talk to their parents about it. "Drinking in the home environment, if it is done properly, can teach young people respect for alcohol, and how to consume in moderation." Dr Bellis said criminalising a parent for allowing a child to drink was probably not going to help any family. Frank Soodeen, campaigns officer for Alcohol Concern, said the charity had taken its lead from the law, which prohibits under-15s from being served alcohol in public places. He agreed that it was appropriate for parents to allow drinking in the home for older teenagers - but reiterated the charity's view that younger teenagers should not be encouraged to drink. He said: "We agree that parents have a real role to play in raising socially responsible drinkers." The researchers say that increasing the cost of alcohol, and closing down retailers who sell to underage drinkers could help tackle the problem. E-mail this to a friend Call to stop children's drinking 27 Apr 07 | UK Drink campaign 'has wrong focus' 17 Mar 07 | UK Shows 'encourage teen drinking' 10 Mar 07 | Health Call to raise drinking age to 21 15 Apr 07 | Health Liverpool John Moores University Substance Abuse Treatment, Prevention, and Policy The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Experts back folic acid in flour Aspirin 'prevents bowel cancer' Drinking at home 'cuts bingeing' MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/health/6642749.stm	BBC NEWS | Health | Drugs adviser raises charity fear Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Thursday, 10 May 2007, 23:01 GMT 00:01 UK E-mail this to a friend Drugs adviser raises charity fear The drugs are reserved for those with moderate Alzheimer's Concerns have been raised about the links between pharmaceutical firms and charity patient groups by the body that advises the NHS on which drugs to use. Sir Michael Rawlins, chairman of the National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence, said charities had to be wary of pharmaceutical donations. And he urged charities to question the cost of drugs more. But patient groups said there were strict guidelines covering such donations by the drugs industry. I have yet ever to hear a patient organisation criticise a price of the drug Sir Michael Rawlins, of NICE Sir Michael said: "Patient organisations need to think very carefully about why pharmaceutical companies are giving them money and they have to make sure they are not beholden to a pharmaceutical company. "I have yet ever to hear a patient organisation criticise a price of the drug. "When they do that they will come into their own." Sir Michael refused to name individual groups The subject of drug firm donations to patients groups and charities is a sensitive issue. Several groups, although not all, accept donations from drug firms. Most of those that do have codes of conduct setting out what those donations can and cannot be used for - most are restricted to funding education purposes than for campaigning. The Alzheimer's Society is involved in legal action along with Eisai and Pfizer against NICE over the decision to restrict the use of Alzheimer's treatments. The group has accepted money from both companies. But a spokeswoman pointed out that drug firm donations account for less than 1% of its income. She said the society's challenge was being done independently of the drug firms and added donations were never used to fund campaign activity. Breast Cancer Care, which pushed for NICE to approve the so-called breast cancer wonder-drug Herceptin, has received money from its maker Roche. A spokeswoman said any drug industry donations were always used for "impartial patient information". She added it was important there was a dialogue between patient groups and drug companies and she agreed cost was something that needed to be debated. "The cost of drug is clearly becoming a major factor in the potential for cancer treatment and must be addressed." And the Association of the British Pharmaceutical Industry denied there was anything wrong with such donations. "Patient groups and companies have a shared interest. When they work together it is in the patients' interests, usually to do with education programmes or disease awareness. "Any involvement has to be declared by the company so it is quite transparent." E-mail this to a friend Drugs watchdog faces legal review 26 Mar 07 | Health Alzheimer's drugs appeal refused 11 Oct 06 | Health Drug 'treats severe Alzheimer's' 23 Mar 06 | Health 'The drug improved both our lives' 10 Oct 06 | Health The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Experts back folic acid in flour Aspirin 'prevents bowel cancer' Drinking at home 'cuts bingeing' MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/uk/6646503.stm	BBC NEWS | UK | Uni may ban exercise ball chairs Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 13:07 GMT 14:07 UK E-mail this to a friend Uni may ban exercise ball chairs The balls are mostly used for exercise but can be used as chairs. University officials are considering whether they should ban physiotherapy lecturers from using large exercise balls as chairs. Physiotherapists at the University of Bath say sitting on the balls while working at a desk encourages good posture and tones core muscles. Their professional body agrees that they are beneficial and carry no risk. But health and safety officials are concerned that the giant inflatables may be dangerous. A spokesman for the university said: "The university's health and safety team are looking into whether the balls meet the university's guidelines on conventional chairs to see if the trial can be allowed to become a permanent situation. We expect the result of this shortly." The balls are often used in gyms and are also known as Swiss balls because they were first used in Switzerland in the 1960s by therapists working with children with cerebral palsy. Physiotherapist Sonya Crowe from the university's Department for Health started a trend when she began using an exercise ball instead of a chair. Ms Crowe, who is the sports physiotherapist for the British beach volleyball team, said: "The balls are firm with a bit of give, so it is not difficult to balance on top of them, but the constant small movements you make whilst sitting at a desk are perfect for strengthening your core muscles. "You also have to sit upright, so they are perfect for improving posture. "In particular, people who suffer from back ache and shoulder pain can really benefit from sitting on an exercise ball instead of a regular office chair." She added: "I have never heard of anyone falling off one of the balls - and the health and safety benefits far outweigh any risks there may be." Ms Crowe's colleague Emily Richards said: "You couldn't miss the fact that Sonya was sat on a big squashy ball instead of an office chair. "A few of us tried it out and could see the benefit immediately. We put in a bulk order and now at least a dozen people around the university have got them." She added: "It seems to have started a real craze, and my husband has now got one at his work to help his bad back." The Chartered Society of Physiotherapy said there was no risk if the balls were used properly. One sports website warns that jewellery and belt buckles could burst the ball but says that most are made to deflate slowly rather than explode. The Health and Safety Executive said it was up to individual employers to decide how to meet their legal obligation to protect their staff. E-mail this to a friend The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Madeleine parents 'won't give up' 11 Menezes police face no action MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/scotland/6641115.stm	BBC NEWS | Scotland | Warning as tick diseases on rise Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Thursday, 10 May 2007, 08:45 GMT 09:45 UK E-mail this to a friend Warning as tick diseases on rise Diseases spread by ticks have risen over the past few years The public has been warned to take extra precautions against ticks as the warm weather heralds a peak in numbers of the blood-sucking parasites. It follows a huge rise in cases of Lyme Disease in Scotland and encephalitis amongst travellers to mainland Europe, spread by ticks. Both infections are severely debilitating and can be fatal. A decade ago there were just 10 cases of Lyme Disease in Scotland, but last year that figure had risen to 177. In mainland Europe, tick-borne encephalitis is also on the rise and is now endemic in 27 countries. Make sure you know about bite prevention, how to look out for the early symptoms and remember to seek advice The advice to anyone heading into the countryside is to wear insect repellent and long trousers if possible and to check themselves thoroughly afterwards. Ticks should be removed by gripping them close to the skin with tweezers and pulling backwards without jerking or twisting. They are common in woodland, heath land and in particular areas in Scotland where deer graze. More recently they have also been found in urban parks. A spokesman for the Tick Alert campaign said: "Ticks are second only to mosquitoes for carrying disease to humans. "Travellers and holidaymakers visiting rural areas are at risk from tick bites, but also when spending time in public spaces including beer gardens, picnic spots and parks and gardens. "Make sure you know about bite prevention, how to look out for the early symptoms and remember to seek advice well before your travel date." Wear trousers tucked into socks Check warm folds of the skin Carefully remove with tweezers Do not try to drown in Vaseline Be aware of favoured habitats Lyme disease varies widely but can include a rash and flu-like symptoms in its initial stage, followed by the possibility of musculoskeletal, arthritic, neurological, psychiatric and cardiac problems. Most cases of Lyme disease can be cured with antibiotics, especially if treatment is begun early in the course of illness. Katrina Anderson, from Edinburgh, became ill after she was bitten by a tick in 1991. She was misdiagnosed by her GP who blamed ME for her chronic fatigue and it took another two years before she was told by a specialist that she had contracted Lyme disease. Ms Anderson said: "At the time I was actually very ill. I became very flu-like with muscle pains, constant headaches. "It was like having a virus. It's like a hidden illness. You don't actually see what the person is suffering from. "It can affect all aspects of your nervous system." E-mail this to a friend VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS A number of precautions can be taken against ticks Call to help fight tick problem 13 Mar 06 | Scotland Paralysed by a tick bite 25 Nov 05 | Norfolk Lyme Disease found on hill range 30 Aug 05 | Somerset Health - Lyme disease Borreliosis and Associated Diseases Awareness UK The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites City vigil for missing Madeleine Osprey makes up with mate SNP and Greens sign working deal MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/england/beds/bucks/herts/6647995.stm	BBC NEWS | England | Beds/Bucks/Herts | Screening as pupils contract TB Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 16:35 GMT 17:35 UK E-mail this to a friend Screening as pupils contract TB Early diagnosis is key to treating TB Pupils and teachers at a junior school are being screened for TB after four pupils tested positive for the disease. A letter was sent to parents of pupils at Southfields Junior School, in Luton, Beds, offering the tests after a pupil displayed symptoms of tuberculosis. Three of his classmates were confirmed to also be in the early stages of the disease, which the Health Protection Agency said is not contracted easily. Luton has three times as many incidents of TB than the national average. The bacteria, which commonly affects the lungs, is on the increase nationally, the Health Protection Agency has said. The affected pupils are being treated with antibiotics and the school has offered the screening as a precaution. E-mail this to a friend BBC Beds Bucks and Herts Travel, leisure, sport, message boards and much more Tuberculosis testing at hospital 11 May 07 | North East/N Isles Tuberculosis cases 'are rising' 22 Mar 07 | Health The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Screening as pupils contract TB Bronson gets payout from prison Cyclist killed in van collision MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/uk/6646503.stm	BBC NEWS | UK | Uni may ban exercise ball chairs Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 13:07 GMT 14:07 UK E-mail this to a friend Uni may ban exercise ball chairs The balls are mostly used for exercise but can be used as chairs. University officials are considering whether they should ban physiotherapy lecturers from using large exercise balls as chairs. Physiotherapists at the University of Bath say sitting on the balls while working at a desk encourages good posture and tones core muscles. Their professional body agrees that they are beneficial and carry no risk. But health and safety officials are concerned that the giant inflatables may be dangerous. A spokesman for the university said: "The university's health and safety team are looking into whether the balls meet the university's guidelines on conventional chairs to see if the trial can be allowed to become a permanent situation. We expect the result of this shortly." The balls are often used in gyms and are also known as Swiss balls because they were first used in Switzerland in the 1960s by therapists working with children with cerebral palsy. Physiotherapist Sonya Crowe from the university's Department for Health started a trend when she began using an exercise ball instead of a chair. Ms Crowe, who is the sports physiotherapist for the British beach volleyball team, said: "The balls are firm with a bit of give, so it is not difficult to balance on top of them, but the constant small movements you make whilst sitting at a desk are perfect for strengthening your core muscles. "You also have to sit upright, so they are perfect for improving posture. "In particular, people who suffer from back ache and shoulder pain can really benefit from sitting on an exercise ball instead of a regular office chair." She added: "I have never heard of anyone falling off one of the balls - and the health and safety benefits far outweigh any risks there may be." Ms Crowe's colleague Emily Richards said: "You couldn't miss the fact that Sonya was sat on a big squashy ball instead of an office chair. "A few of us tried it out and could see the benefit immediately. We put in a bulk order and now at least a dozen people around the university have got them." She added: "It seems to have started a real craze, and my husband has now got one at his work to help his bad back." The Chartered Society of Physiotherapy said there was no risk if the balls were used properly. One sports website warns that jewellery and belt buckles could burst the ball but says that most are made to deflate slowly rather than explode. The Health and Safety Executive said it was up to individual employers to decide how to meet their legal obligation to protect their staff. E-mail this to a friend The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Madeleine parents 'won't give up' 11 Menezes police face no action MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/health/6648059.stm	BBC NEWS | Health | Experts back folic acid in flour Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 17:03 GMT 18:03 UK E-mail this to a friend Experts back folic acid in flour Under the plan, all bread would be made with folic acid-fortified flour The UK's official food watchdog is backing the mandatory fortification of flour with folic acid to reduce birth defects such as spina bifida. The proposal will go before the board of the Food Standards Agency next week for ratification. If passed, ministers will then decide whether to press ahead. Scientific research shows that folic acid significantly cuts the risk of neural tube defects, which affect up to 900 pregnancies a year in the UK. However, there is concern that adding the vitamin to flour could harm some elderly patients, as it could mask a deficiency in the B12 vitamin. Up to 10% of those aged 65 and older have borderline B12 levels and could tip into deficiency. In extreme cases, this can cause irreversible damage to the nervous system. The recommendation to the FSA board suggests that products containing folic acid at nutritionally significant levels should be clearly labelled. It also argues that mandatory fortification should be accompanied by new controls on the voluntary addition of folic acid to other products, such as breakfast cereals and low-fat spreads, and on the use of folic acid supplements. A system for monitoring the health impact of fortification would also be needed. Wholemeal flour would be exempt from fortification in order to give consumers more choice. The FSA already advises women to eat extra folic acid when trying to get pregnant. However, research suggests that only half of such women adhere to this advice. Also, up to half of pregnancies are unplanned, meaning women may miss the opportunity. Each year between 500 and 600 babies in the UK are reported to have neural tube defects. It is thought many of the other affected pregnancies are terminated. Mandatory fortification has already been introduced in the USA, Canada and Chile, where it cut NTD rates by between 27% and 50%. A panel of UK experts, the Scientific Advisory Committee on Nutrition (SACN), last year backed mandatory fortification of flour. SACN found no evidence that vitamin B12 deficiency was masked in older people, provided folic acid doses were 1mg a day or less. An FSA consultation on the issue drew 202 responses from industry, consumer groups and individuals. The baking industry raised "practical concerns" about the fortification of bread. It said bread-making flour couldn't easily be separated from other flours in mills. E-mail this to a friend Folic acid 'should be in flour' 12 Dec 06 | Health Folic acid boosts IVF twin births 05 May 06 | Health Folic acid 'cuts dementia risk' 15 Aug 05 | Health Push to add folic acid to bread 05 Apr 06 | Health Association for Spina Bifida and Hydrocephalus Scientific Advisory Committee of Nutrition The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Experts back folic acid in flour Aspirin 'prevents bowel cancer' Drinking at home 'cuts bingeing' MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/health/3444635.stm	BBC NEWS | Health | Cancer: The facts Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 30 January 2004, 11:57 GMT E-mail this to a friend One in three of us will be diagnosed with cancer during our life. The disease tends to affect older people - but can strike at any time. Excluding certain skin cancers, there were more than 270,000 new cases of the disease in 2001 - and the rate is increasing by about 1% a year. Some cancer, such as breast, are becoming more common, while new cases of lung cancer fall away due to the drop in the number of smokers. However, while the overall number of new cancers is not falling, the good news is that successful treatment rates for many of the most common types are improving rapidly. BBC News Online has produced, in conjunction with Cancer Research UK, a guide to some of the most common forms of cancer and the treatments used to tackle them. To learn more about different types of cancer, and to read the experiences of patients, click on the links to the right. E-mail this to a friend Cancer - the facts Cervical and Uterine Cancers National Cancer Research Institute The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Experts back folic acid in flour Aspirin 'prevents bowel cancer' Drinking at home 'cuts bingeing' Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/health/4121411.stm	BBC NEWS | Health | Pregnancy timeline Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Thursday, 23 December, 2004, 13:42 GMT E-mail this to a friend Fertilisation occurs and a ball of quickly multiplying cells embeds itself in the lining of the uterus. In the UK pregnancy is calculated from the first day of the woman's last period so for as much as three weeks of this first month she might not be actually pregnant. When fertilisation does occur the tiny mass of cells called a blastocyst at this stage embeds itself in the lining of the womb which is already thickening to support it. The mass of cells is developing fast and becomes an embryo. For many women the first sign of pregnancy is a missed period. Shopbought tests are considered largely reliable so the mother-to-be does not have to have her pregnancy confirmed by her GP. If a first test is negative a second one a few days later may prove positive as hormone levels in the urine rise. The embryo officially becomes a foetus. It is about the size of a baked bean and its spine and nervous system begin to form. The foetus already has its own blood system and may be a different blood group from its mother. Blood vessels are forming in what will become the umbilical cord and tiny buds which will become limbs appear. The baby&acute;s heart is beginning to develop. Morning sickness and other side effects of early pregnancy may take hold. Around this time many women find they experience the side-effects of early pregnancy including needing to urinate more often nausea and vomiting and feeling a bit weepy and irritable. All medication including supplements need to be carefully checked as the foetus is undergoing vital development in the first 12 weeks. If the woman has not told her GP or community midwife she is pregnant yet now is a good time to do so. It is quite common to have a first scan at this stage if the woman has had a previous miscarriage or bleeding. An early scan is often done through the vagina and is used to check the pregnancy is not ectopic. It should show up the baby&acute;s heartbeat. The nervous system is also developing rapidly especially the brain. The head gets bigger and eyes form under the skin of the face. The foetus' limbs are growing and look more like arms and legs. All internal organs are developing and becoming more complex. The foetus is about 5cm long with its head tucked onto its chest. It has most its major organs and eyes and ears are developing. A scan at 10-13 weeks is recommended to pin down the date of the pregnancy. The umbilical cord is fully formed providing nourishment and removing waste products. The foetus looks fully human now. By this week the threat of miscarriage is much reduced. Many women announce their pregnancy to friends and colleagues. The foetus is growing in length much more quickly by now it is about eight cm long and weighs about 60 grams. The placenta is now wellformed though it's not yet doing its full job it takes over fully in week 14. The mother is likely to have her first scan this week. The womans uterus is becoming larger and is starting to rise out of the pelvis. The foetus can move its head quite easily. Third of the way through. The average pregnancy lasts 266 days or 280 days from the first day of last period. Screening for Downs syndrome is offered about now. A simple blood test is carried out first then further tests may be offered. On the basis of the blood test results the woman may opt for a Chorionic Villus sample or an amniocentesis which would diagnose or other chromosomal abnormalities. However these diagnostic tests have a small risk of subsequent miscarriage. An alternative to blood tests is a nuchal translucency scan a new scan offered by some larger hospitals. But again an amniocentisis would be required for firm diagnosis. The foetus now has toe and finger nails eyebrows and eyelashes. It is also covered with downy hair. The hair that will cover the baby until the last week or so of pregnancy - called lanugo - starts to form. This hair is very fine more like down and it probably serves as some form of insulation and protection for the skin. The foetus can hear noises from the outside world. By this stage the mother is visibly pregnant and the uterus is rising. By this stage the foetus is moving around a lot - probably enough to be felt. The foetus is now about 15-20cm long and weighs about 300g. Milk teeth have formed in the gums. Half way through pregnancy now. Almost all mothers are offered a routine scan. The foetus develops a waxy coating called vernix. The scan can show the foetus in fine detail and often reveal if the baby is a boy or a girl. However not all hospitals offer to tell parents the sex of the child - and not all parents want to know. The mother may feel short of breath as her uterus pushes against her diaphragm leaving less space for the lungs. The mother may be offered another ultrasound scan around this time. The scan can check the baby&acute;s spine internal organs and growth are normal. Senses develop: taste buds have started to form on the tongue and the foetus starts to feel touch. The skeleton continues to develop and bones that form the skull begin to harden - but not fully. Antenatal checkup and scan to check the baby&acute;s position. A baby born this early does sometimes survive. A baby born at 24 weeks may possibly survive but it would have severe breathing difficulties as its lungs would not be strong enough to cope. It would also be very thin lightweight and susceptible to infections. All organs are now in place and the rest of the pregnancy is for growth. Preeclampsia is a risk from here onwards. This potentially fatal condition causes high blood pressure protein in the urine and swelling caused by fluid retention. The causes are unclear but research suggests it may be linked to an immune reaction to the foetus or the placenta. If the condition is serious women may be advised to take drugs to lower their blood pressure and in some cases an early caesarean or induction may be performed. Serious complications of pregnancy The foetus skin is gradually becoming more opaque than transparent. The foetus measures about 34cm and weighs about 800g. Routine checkup to test for preeclampsia. Women with Rhesus negative blood will also be tested for antibodies. If the mother has Rh negative blood but the baby is Rh positive she can develop antibodies to her baby&acute;s blood during labour. This is not a problem in the first birth but can affect subsequent pregnancies and result in stillbirth. Fortunately treatment is simple and effective. BBC Health: Ask the doctor - Rhesus disease Some women develop restless leg syndrome in their third trimester. This is sensations such as crawling tingling or even cramps and burning inside the foot or leg - often in the evening and at night disturbing sleep and making the mother feel she needs to get up and walk around. No-one knows what causes this harmless but irritating condition. Braxton Hicks contractions may begin around now. They are practice contractions which dont usually hurt. These are irregular, painless contractions which feel like a squeezing sensation near the top of the uterus. If contractions become painful or occur four times an hour or more, the woman should call a doctor as she may be in early labour. The foetus can see now and tell light from dark. The mother&acute;s breasts start to produce colostrum about now This high calorie milk is produced by the mother to feed the baby for the first few days after birth before normal milk starts. Another antenatal appointment. The foetus is about 42cm and weighs 2.2kg. A baby born now has a good chance of survival. From now the baby should become settled in a head downwards position. A midwife can help to move it if necessary. The mother may find it more difficult to eat full meals as the expanded uterus presses on her stomach. If the mother has been told she may need a planned caesarean, now is a good time to discuss it further. The baby&acute;s head may engage in the pelvis any time now. The baby&acute;s lungs are practically mature now and it can survive unaided. The final weeks in the womb are to put on weight. Babies born from this week onward are not considered early. Another ante-natal appointment. The mother has reached her full size and weight by now. In theory the baby should be born this week. The mother&acute;s cervix prepares for the birth by softening. First babies are often up to a week late but if there are signs of distress to mother or child the birth will be induced. E-mail this to a friend A week by week guide to what happens to mother and baby during pregnancy Nine months: An overview Experts back folic acid in flour Aspirin 'prevents bowel cancer' Drinking at home 'cuts bingeing' Week at a Glance Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/england/west_midlands/6646467.stm	BBC NEWS | England | West Midlands | Body parts sale man avoids jail Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 12:51 GMT 13:51 UK E-mail this to a friend Body parts sale man avoids jail Daniel Tuck tried to sell his kidney for £24,000 A debt-ridden salesman who tried to sell one of his own kidneys over the internet has been given a 12-month suspended jail sentence. Daniel Tuck, from Oldbury, West Midlands, is the first person to be successfully prosecuted under a new law preventing the sale of body parts. The 26-year-old tried to sell his kidney for £24,000 on a chatroom used by kidney disease sufferers. The judge suspended his sentence for two years and ordered him to pay £250. He had faced up to three years in jail for contravening the Human Tissue Act. I want to sell my kidney - this is 100% genuine. I am a white male of completely perfect health. Tuck had previous convictions for theft and obtaining property by deception. Judge Challinor said: "There is much public disquiet surrounding the sale of body parts for money and there is an understandable revulsion at such practices. "A sentence incorporating an element of deterrence is required." Helena Miller, prosecuting, said Tuck admitted a charge of offering to supply human material for transplantation last month. He had posted an advert on the internet which read: "I am a healthy 25-year-old male from Birmingham in England. I am blood group O+ and am desperate for funds to rebuild my life. "I want to sell my kidney - this is 100% genuine. I am a white male of completely perfect health. Why risk getting a kidney from a Third World country?" He was questioned by police after meeting a reporter from the Sunday Mercury newspaper in May 2006 and agreeing a price for the kidney, she said. During the meeting Tuck confirmed he knew the sale of organs in the United Kingdom was illegal. When he was arrested in June he told police he had recently split with his girlfriend and was £25,000 in debt. "He said he wasn't thinking straight," Ms Miller said. "He said he put the advert on the site to see what would happen." Jas Mann, defending, said his client had been a broken man at the time of the offence and did not intend to go through with his proposal. He said Tuck was gambling on a regular basis and "pumped" his earnings into fruit machines. A spokesman for the Human Tissue Authority, set up under the new Act to take action against organ trafficking, said: "It is an offence to give or receive a reward for the supply or offer of human material for transplantation." A spokesman for the Crown Prosecution Service said: "Any advertisement to sell human organs is a criminal offence and, where there is sufficient evidence and it is in the public interest, the CPS will prosecute these cases." E-mail this to a friend VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS Daniel Tuck hangs his head outside court Culture, leisure, sport and more from the BBC website for the Black Country The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites TOP WEST MIDLANDS STORIES Body parts sale man avoids jail Micro artist sells works for £11m Man held over train 'gun' alert MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/health/6642749.stm	BBC NEWS | Health | Drugs adviser raises charity fear Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Thursday, 10 May 2007, 23:01 GMT 00:01 UK E-mail this to a friend Drugs adviser raises charity fear The drugs are reserved for those with moderate Alzheimer's Concerns have been raised about the links between pharmaceutical firms and charity patient groups by the body that advises the NHS on which drugs to use. Sir Michael Rawlins, chairman of the National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence, said charities had to be wary of pharmaceutical donations. And he urged charities to question the cost of drugs more. But patient groups said there were strict guidelines covering such donations by the drugs industry. I have yet ever to hear a patient organisation criticise a price of the drug Sir Michael Rawlins, of NICE Sir Michael said: "Patient organisations need to think very carefully about why pharmaceutical companies are giving them money and they have to make sure they are not beholden to a pharmaceutical company. "I have yet ever to hear a patient organisation criticise a price of the drug. "When they do that they will come into their own." Sir Michael refused to name individual groups The subject of drug firm donations to patients groups and charities is a sensitive issue. Several groups, although not all, accept donations from drug firms. Most of those that do have codes of conduct setting out what those donations can and cannot be used for - most are restricted to funding education purposes than for campaigning. The Alzheimer's Society is involved in legal action along with Eisai and Pfizer against NICE over the decision to restrict the use of Alzheimer's treatments. The group has accepted money from both companies. But a spokeswoman pointed out that drug firm donations account for less than 1% of its income. She said the society's challenge was being done independently of the drug firms and added donations were never used to fund campaign activity. Breast Cancer Care, which pushed for NICE to approve the so-called breast cancer wonder-drug Herceptin, has received money from its maker Roche. A spokeswoman said any drug industry donations were always used for "impartial patient information". She added it was important there was a dialogue between patient groups and drug companies and she agreed cost was something that needed to be debated. "The cost of drug is clearly becoming a major factor in the potential for cancer treatment and must be addressed." And the Association of the British Pharmaceutical Industry denied there was anything wrong with such donations. "Patient groups and companies have a shared interest. When they work together it is in the patients' interests, usually to do with education programmes or disease awareness. "Any involvement has to be declared by the company so it is quite transparent." E-mail this to a friend Drugs watchdog faces legal review 26 Mar 07 | Health Alzheimer's drugs appeal refused 11 Oct 06 | Health Drug 'treats severe Alzheimer's' 23 Mar 06 | Health 'The drug improved both our lives' 10 Oct 06 | Health The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Experts back folic acid in flour Aspirin 'prevents bowel cancer' Drinking at home 'cuts bingeing' MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/england/nottinghamshire/6647431.stm	BBC NEWS | England | Nottinghamshire | Boy's fight to cure rare disease Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 15:18 GMT 16:18 UK E-mail this to a friend Boy's fight to cure rare disease Jack only has half the movement in his right arm A 12-year-old boy from Nottinghamshire is fighting to find a cure for a rare bone disease. Jack Beaumont, from Sutton-in-Ashfield, is believed to be one of just 300 people in the world who have been diagnosed with melorheostosis. The disease, which causes excess bone growth, has left Jack with half the normal movement in his right arm. He was meeting experts at a national conference on melorheostosis in Oxford on Friday. Jack and fellow sufferers shared their stories at the UK Melorheostosis Conference. "I'm hoping for some answers and I'm looking forward to meeting some other people who've got the same disease as me," he said. His mother, Nicola Beaumont, added: "He just shrugs it off because he's so laid back, nothing affects him in that respect but I think as he gets older, he's going to find more restrictions." E-mail this to a friend VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS Jack Beaumont talks about his hopes for a cure Sport, travel, leisure and more from the BBC website for Nottingham The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Man, 80, attacked by city mugger Disabled resident choked on onion Householder is tied up by robbers MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/health/default.stm	BBC NEWS | Health Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Radio 4's Midnight News Friday, 11 May 2007, 19:19 GMT 20:19 UK Experts back folic acid in flour Folic acid should be added to flour to cut the risk of birth defects such as spina bifida, experts have recommended. Aspirin 'prevents bowel cancer' Taking a dose of aspirin each day for five years can prevent bowel cancer developing, a UK study suggests. Drinking at home 'cuts bingeing' Teenagers who drink alcohol with their parents are less likely to binge drink, research suggests. Body parts sale man avoids jail Cancer therapy cuts side effects Scientists create 'plastic' blood Uni may ban exercise ball chairs Drugs adviser raises charity fear Call for mental heath care push ALSO IN THE NEWS How Milo is helping a woman with epilepsy lead a normal life VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS UK- 'worst' cancer drug access Patients and staff give their opinion on the NHS under Blair Could your daily commute be helped by a spot of meditation? He promised to save the NHS in 1997, so how has he fared? Oral sex linked to throat cancer Gynaecologist lacked op consent Boy's fight to cure rare disease Screening as pupils contract TB Baby unit 'to re-open next week' UK licence for breast cancer drug Toddlers to get help with talking Warning as tick diseases on rise Heart disease and stroke Oral sex linked to throat cancer 'Sumo' offers brain disease hope Artificial food colouring warning How do doctors decide on the best care for their patients? A comprehensive guide to clinical conditions FROM OTHER BBC SITES How and when you should get another doctor's view ELSEWHERE ON THE BBC Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/england/essex/6644841.stm	BBC NEWS | England | Essex | Gynaecologist lacked op consent Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Thursday, 10 May 2007, 20:02 GMT 21:02 UK E-mail this to a friend Gynaecologist lacked op consent The General Medical Council said the case was "wholly exceptional" A gynaecologist who failed to obtain consent from a woman for an operation which left her unable to have sex has not been struck off. The General Medical Council (GMC) ruled it had been an "exceptional" case that saw Essex-based Dr June Swinhoe fail in her practise. Marian Howland, 52, from Epping, had not been made aware of risks linked to her operation for a prolapse in 2003. The GMC panel ruled Dr Swinhoe posed no risk to patients. In March 2003, Dr Swinhoe was working as a consultant gynaecologist at King George Hospital in Ilford and privately at Holly House Hospital in Buckhurst Hill. I have lost a lot of my life and all unnecessarily Mrs Howland had been married for eight years when she visited Dr Swinhoe with a prolapse and discomfort during sex. She told the panel she was admitted for the prolapse to be repaired but was not informed of all the side effects or of any risks associated with the procedures. Dr Swinhoe had not taken a full medical history from Mrs Howland who had previously had a hysterectomy, her ovaries removed and become blind in one eye. In tears, Mrs Howland told the panel a few weeks after the operation it became clear she had been left unable to have sex, and had been left "shell-shocked". She added: "I have lost my best friend, my husband, my lover. "I have lost a lot of my life and all unnecessarily." The panel told Dr Swinhoe: "The deficiencies in your communication with Mrs Howland and your failure to obtain consent from her were an aberration and amount to an isolated departure from your usual high standards of professional competence and care. "The finding that your fitness is impaired is, in itself, a very significant mark on your record. "You have learned from this distressing experience. "This is a wholly exceptional case and in the circumstances the panel is satisfied that it is fair, proportionate and sufficient to conclude the case without taking any action in respect of your registration." E-mail this to a friend Sport, travel, leisure and more from the BBC website for Essex New lead over Oliver pub robbery Four arrested in drugs house raid Crews tackle fire at listed hotel MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/england/north_yorkshire/6645923.stm	BBC NEWS | England | North Yorkshire | Scientists create 'plastic' blood Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 09:08 GMT 10:08 UK E-mail this to a friend Scientists create 'plastic' blood The researchers said the artificial blood was easier to store Scientists have developed an artificial plastic blood which could act as a substitute in emergencies. Researchers at Sheffield University said their creation could be a huge advantage in war zones. They say that the artificial blood is light to carry, does not need to be kept cool and can be kept for longer. The new blood is made up of plastic molecules that have an iron atom at their core, like haemoglobin, that can carry oxygen through the body. The scientists said the artificial blood could be cheap to produce and they were looking for extra funding to develop a final prototype that would be suitable for biological testing. Dr Lance Twyman, of the university's Department of Chemistry, said: "We are very excited about the potential for this product and about the fact that this could save lives. "Many people die from superficial wounds when they are trapped in an accident or are injured on the battlefield and can't get blood before they get to hospital. "This product can be stored a lot more easily than blood, meaning large quantities could be carried easily by ambulances and the armed forces." A sample of the artificial blood prototype will be on display at the Science Museum in London from 22 May as part of an exhibition about the history of plastics. E-mail this to a friend Sport, travel, leisure and more from the BBC website for South Yorkshire The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites TOP NORTH YORKSHIRE STORIES Policeman jailed over child sex Battlefield homes get green light Allotment produce declared safe MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/england/west_midlands/6646467.stm	BBC NEWS | England | West Midlands | Body parts sale man avoids jail Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 12:51 GMT 13:51 UK E-mail this to a friend Body parts sale man avoids jail Daniel Tuck tried to sell his kidney for £24,000 A debt-ridden salesman who tried to sell one of his own kidneys over the internet has been given a 12-month suspended jail sentence. Daniel Tuck, from Oldbury, West Midlands, is the first person to be successfully prosecuted under a new law preventing the sale of body parts. The 26-year-old tried to sell his kidney for £24,000 on a chatroom used by kidney disease sufferers. The judge suspended his sentence for two years and ordered him to pay £250. He had faced up to three years in jail for contravening the Human Tissue Act. I want to sell my kidney - this is 100% genuine. I am a white male of completely perfect health. Tuck had previous convictions for theft and obtaining property by deception. Judge Challinor said: "There is much public disquiet surrounding the sale of body parts for money and there is an understandable revulsion at such practices. "A sentence incorporating an element of deterrence is required." Helena Miller, prosecuting, said Tuck admitted a charge of offering to supply human material for transplantation last month. He had posted an advert on the internet which read: "I am a healthy 25-year-old male from Birmingham in England. I am blood group O+ and am desperate for funds to rebuild my life. "I want to sell my kidney - this is 100% genuine. I am a white male of completely perfect health. Why risk getting a kidney from a Third World country?" He was questioned by police after meeting a reporter from the Sunday Mercury newspaper in May 2006 and agreeing a price for the kidney, she said. During the meeting Tuck confirmed he knew the sale of organs in the United Kingdom was illegal. When he was arrested in June he told police he had recently split with his girlfriend and was £25,000 in debt. "He said he wasn't thinking straight," Ms Miller said. "He said he put the advert on the site to see what would happen." Jas Mann, defending, said his client had been a broken man at the time of the offence and did not intend to go through with his proposal. He said Tuck was gambling on a regular basis and "pumped" his earnings into fruit machines. A spokesman for the Human Tissue Authority, set up under the new Act to take action against organ trafficking, said: "It is an offence to give or receive a reward for the supply or offer of human material for transplantation." A spokesman for the Crown Prosecution Service said: "Any advertisement to sell human organs is a criminal offence and, where there is sufficient evidence and it is in the public interest, the CPS will prosecute these cases." E-mail this to a friend VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS Daniel Tuck hangs his head outside court Culture, leisure, sport and more from the BBC website for the Black Country The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites TOP WEST MIDLANDS STORIES Body parts sale man avoids jail Micro artist sells works for £11m Man held over train 'gun' alert MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/england/nottinghamshire/6647431.stm	BBC NEWS | England | Nottinghamshire | Boy's fight to cure rare disease Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 15:18 GMT 16:18 UK E-mail this to a friend Boy's fight to cure rare disease Jack only has half the movement in his right arm A 12-year-old boy from Nottinghamshire is fighting to find a cure for a rare bone disease. Jack Beaumont, from Sutton-in-Ashfield, is believed to be one of just 300 people in the world who have been diagnosed with melorheostosis. The disease, which causes excess bone growth, has left Jack with half the normal movement in his right arm. He was meeting experts at a national conference on melorheostosis in Oxford on Friday. Jack and fellow sufferers shared their stories at the UK Melorheostosis Conference. "I'm hoping for some answers and I'm looking forward to meeting some other people who've got the same disease as me," he said. His mother, Nicola Beaumont, added: "He just shrugs it off because he's so laid back, nothing affects him in that respect but I think as he gets older, he's going to find more restrictions." E-mail this to a friend VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS Jack Beaumont talks about his hopes for a cure Sport, travel, leisure and more from the BBC website for Nottingham The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Man, 80, attacked by city mugger Disabled resident choked on onion Householder is tied up by robbers MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/northern_ireland/6645479.stm	BBC NEWS | Northern Ireland | Baby unit 'to re-open next week' Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 17:42 GMT 18:42 UK E-mail this to a friend Baby unit 'to re-open next week' The neonatal unit treats the sickest babies in Northern Ireland A consultant at the neonatal unit in Belfast where three premature babies picked up an infection said it hopes to resume admissions next week. The Royal Maternity Hospital closed the unit temporarily to new admissions after the babies became seriously ill. The ward has now been chemically decontaminated. Health Minister Michael McGimpsey said eliminating infections in hospitals was a priority. Dr Stanley Craig said the babies were responding well to antibiotics. "Any infection when you're particularly compromised, as a pre-term baby is, is potentially life-threatening," he said. "These babies are responding to the antibiotics that they're on, which is good news for the babies themselves, their parents and the staff involved in their care. The hospital hopes to re-open the unit next week "Being born premature does leave you very vulnerable to infection and it can be a problem, but we're seeing encouraging signs." The babies, who picked up a multi-resistant enterobacter infection, have been isolated and are being closely monitored by specially trained nurses. The health minister said the situation was not acceptable and pointed out there had been much investment in the area of patient safety. "It is one of the issues that we look at ...and it's one of the areas I take very, very seriously," said Mr McGimpsey. "Obviously when people go to hospital they expect not to pick up infection, when they're there. There is an incidence of infections in hospitals and we look to eliminate that because whatever the incidence is, it is ... too high." Iris Robinson of the DUP said she was concerned about the impact on other hospitals. "What I am particularly concerned about is how the other hospitals across the province are going to deal with demand while the Royal's neonatal unit is out of operation," she said. "Usually the most unwell babies from all around Northern Ireland would be transferred to the specialist unit in Belfast. "Obviously this will not be the case for the immediate future, and these cases will have to be managed in their local units." E-mail this to a friend VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS Dot Kirby reports on the units closure Royal Hospitals maternity unit The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites TOP NORTHERN IRELAND STORIES Sanchez resigning as NI manager Police renew city murder appeal Man is arrested over pub shooting MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/health/6643547.stm	BBC NEWS | Health | Aspirin 'prevents bowel cancer' Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Thursday, 10 May 2007, 23:01 GMT 00:01 UK E-mail this to a friend Aspirin 'prevents bowel cancer' Aspirin could benefit high-risk groups, the study says Taking aspirin each day can prevent bowel cancer developing, a study says. Oxford University researchers said taking a dose of 300mg a day for five years offered the protection. Long-term aspirin use is generally not backed because of the risk of stomach problems, but the team said it could benefit those at high-risk of cancer. Cancer campaigners welcomed the study - published in the Lancet - which examined data from previous research covering more than 7,500 people. These findings are not an indication that the general population should rush out and take what is a high dosage of aspirin on a daily basis. Each year, around 35,000 men and women in the UK are diagnosed with bowel cancer, and more than 16,000 die from the disease. The researchers looked at the results from two large-scale UK trials carried out in the late 1970s and early 1980s covering over 7,500 people which had given some people 300, 500 or 1,200mg per day doses of aspirin or a dummy pill for five to seven years. The people in the study were then followed for up to 20 years, and deaths from bowel cancer were logged. The team say it takes at least 10 years to see an effect, because that is how long it takes for a pre-cancerous growths to develop into cancer. Other studies have examined aspirin's benefits. However, this was the first where people were allocated to take different doses of the drug, or the fake version, rather than looking back at the aspirin use of bowel cancer patients and comparing them with healthy people. High risk group 'benefit' The researchers found that taking 300mg of aspirin - the equivalent of one pill - a day for five years reduced the incidence of bowel cancer by 74% in the subsequent 10 to 15 years. An accompanying review of 30 observational studies suggested taking medium-to-high doses of aspirin for 10 years or more reduced the risk of developing the disease by 50%-70%. The protective effect of aspirin appeared to be consistent regardless of age, sex, race or country of origin. It was also seen in individuals who had a close family relative with bowel cancer, which normally raises the lifetime risk two to four times. Professor Peter Rothwell, who led the research, said: "What we are saying is that for a subgroup of people at high risk of bowel cancer, they probably aren't going to be dramatically harmed by taking aspirin. "They may have some risk of bleeding in the stomach, but they will see potentially significant benefits in the reduction of their colon cancer risk. "In that situation, I think taking aspirin daily would be worthwhile." Dr Andrew Chan, from Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston, writing in the Lancet, said the findings were "convincing evidence" that aspirin can reduce the incidence of bowel cancer. But he added: "With the concerns about the potential risks of long-term aspirin use and the availability of alternative prevention strategies - such as screening - these findings are not sufficient to warrant a recommendation for the general population to use aspirin for cancer prevention." Rob Glynne-Jones, chief medical advisor to the charity Bowel Cancer UK, said: "This is very interesting and it certainly confirms what we already know and believe about the links between aspirin, polyps and the development of bowel cancer. "However, these findings are not an indication that the general population should rush out and take what is a high dosage of aspirin on a daily basis. "Aspirin at this dose over a prolonged period of time could lead to potentially serious side effects in a few people." E-mail this to a friend VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS The study's findings about aspirin and bowel cancer Aspirin 'cuts bowel cancer risk' 23 Aug 05 | Health Aspirin cuts breast cancer risk 26 May 04 | Health Aspirin: A century of good news 26 Jun 02 | Health The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Experts back folic acid in flour Aspirin 'prevents bowel cancer' Drinking at home 'cuts bingeing' MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/health/6644293.stm	BBC NEWS | Health | Call for mental heath care push Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 07:27 GMT 08:27 UK E-mail this to a friend Call for mental heath care push Most mental health treatment takes place out of hospitals Mental health services must renew their efforts to improve community care, the mental health tsar says. Professor Louis Appleby has called on NHS trusts to look at new ways of working to help people rebuild lives. He said they should look to work more closely with employment and housing agencies and cut waiting lists for talking therapies in England. Campaigners said there was a lot of work to do to ensure services were good enough for patients. In the last eight years, there has been a big push to move care out of hospitals and into the community. With units and day centres closing and community services cut, the more seriously ill are still being neglected and put at risk Marjorie Wallace, of Sane There are now more than 700 community teams, including nurses, doctors and social workers, providing a range of crisis help and early intervention. However, the Healthcare Commission last year criticised services, pointing to gaps in out-of-hours care, talking therapies and access to information. Nearly half of services were rated as fair or weak. Professor Appleby said the report was about the next phase of reform of mental health care. He told BBC News: "We've had several years of strengthening what community services do, and the report is about breaking down the barriers in the next stage of reforms. "I'm talking about barriers that get in the way of better patients' experience of care "At the moment, for example, there is a barrier between what health services traditionally do, which is clinical care, improving people's illnesses, abolishing their symptoms. "But what patients often tell us they want is help with quality of life. They want opportunities for training, for jobs, and for decent housing, and we have to take on that responsibility." His report called on the 60 mental heath trusts to consult with their local populations about what they needed. The report said mental health trusts should look at ways they could link up with agencies responsible for housing and employment. It also called for community teams to get involved in giving people more advice on how to reduce alcohol and drug use and look after their physical health. He also called for a renewed effort to reduce waiting lists for talking therapies such as cognitive behavioural therapy, which sometimes has waits of over 12 months. The NHS is currently rolling out a programme of providing people with access to computerised CBT and the government has set up 10 pilots to explore ways of speeding up access to talking therapies. Marjorie Wallace, chief executive of the mental health charity Sane, said extra investment was needed. "We are all too aware that with units and day centres closing and community services cut, the more seriously ill are still being neglected and put at risk. "The government goes forward with its policy of reform and choice, but there are thousands who have no choice of where to go in crisis and little chance of rehabilitation or safe, consistent care, both in or out of hospital." E-mail this to a friend Firms urged to help mentally ill Mental health wards 'unpleasant' Mental health services 'failing' Young 'failed' on mental health Fear over health of mentally ill 'My company helped me recover' 'The services were just not there' 'I'm so glad I didn't kill myself' 'I have washed my hands of NHS' 'I learned to live with voices' Kicking depression into touch The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Experts back folic acid in flour Aspirin 'prevents bowel cancer' Drinking at home 'cuts bingeing' MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/health/6639711.stm	BBC NEWS | Health | UK licence for breast cancer drug Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Thursday, 10 May 2007, 10:34 GMT 11:34 UK E-mail this to a friend UK licence for breast cancer drug The drug may extend life for some women A new drug has been licensed to treat UK patients with advanced breast cancer that has begun to spread. However, patients may find problems getting Avastin, as the NHS drugs watchdogs have yet to consider whether to sanction its use. The drug is designed to be used in tandem with another chemotherapy agent, paclitaxel. Avastin, which works by starving cancer cells of a blood supply, has previously been used to treat bowel cancer. All breast cancer treatments will have risks and benefits so it is vital women have all the information they need to make informed decisions about their treatment options However, the drug was rejected for NHS use in England and Wales for that purpose last year. The National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence (NICE) ruled that it was not cost-effective. In trials, breast cancer patients who took Avastin and paclitaxel went an average of 13 months without their cancer growing, compared with an average of 6.7 months for patients who took paclitaxel alone. Professor David Miles, a consultant medical oncologist at the Mount Vernon Cancer Centre, Middlesex, said: "This provides some hope for the 13,000 patients a year that are told the devastating news they have metastatic breast cancer which cannot be cured with surgery. "It is an important step forward to have discovered another targeted treatment which can inhibit the growth of breast cancer and as a result increase significantly the time that patients' breast cancer is controlled." Dr Emma Pennery, a nurse consultant at the charity Breast Cancer Care, said women with secondary breast cancer would welcome any treatment that could potentially slow down the progression of their disease. "This announcement means that there is now another treatment option available, adding to the growing range of targeted drugs for breast cancer." Dr Pennery called on the National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence (NICE) and the Scottish Medicines Consortium to appraise the drug as soon as possible. Dr Sarah Rawlings, of the charity Breakthrough Breast Cancer, said: "The development of targeted therapies like this is an important step forward in cancer treatment. "Avastin is an additional treatment option that will be welcomed by women with metastatic breast cancer, although it's important to remember it might not be suitable for everyone. "All breast cancer treatments will have risks and benefits so it is vital women have all the information they need to make informed decisions about their treatment options. "Any woman concerned should discuss this with her doctor." E-mail this to a friend Breast cancer drug cocktail hope 23 Mar 06 | Health US approves new cancer drug 27 Feb 04 | Health 30 Jan 04 | Medical notes National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Experts back folic acid in flour Aspirin 'prevents bowel cancer' Drinking at home 'cuts bingeing' MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/health/6646581.stm	BBC NEWS | Health | Cancer therapy cuts side effects Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 11:48 GMT 12:48 UK E-mail this to a friend Cancer therapy cuts side effects Chemotherapy can cause nasty side effects Scientists say they have developed a way to deliver lethal drug doses to tumours without causing side-effects, such as nausea and hair loss. The Australian team has used nanotechnology to create tiny particles which specifically attack cancer cells, but leave healthy tissue unaffected. The particles - or mini-cells - are tagged with anti-cancer antibodies so they zero in on their target. The research features in the journal Cancer Cell. There is no other system where you can get so much drug concentrated into a little parcel It is hoped the technique could treat tumours in the breast, ovaries, colon and lungs. So far it has been used in mice and dogs, and the researchers plan to begin human trials shortly. Traditional chemotherapy typically involves subjecting the patient's entire body to powerful drugs, which can cause a range of severe side-effects. The mini-cells - about one-fifth the size of a normal cell - were created from bacteria cells stripped of their reproductive powers. They were then loaded with cancer drugs, and tagged with antibodies which are attracted to cancerous tumours. Once the cell reaches the cancer, the drug is released directly into the malignant growth. Researcher Jennifer MacDiarmid, from Sydney-based biotechnology company EnGeneIC, said: "There is no other system where you can get so much drug concentrated into a little parcel." In tests, the technique reduced tumours in animals without side effects - and by using only a very small amount of drug. Dr MacDiarmid said the treatment could potentially be used on any solid tumours. She said the technique potentially paved the way for customised drug cocktails for individual patients. Professor Quentin Pankhurst, of the London Centre for Nanotechnology, said: "The concept of targeted drug delivery is something which has been around for a while and there are many different avenues that have been tested. "This one looks like an interesting and promising one. "I particularly like the fact that these mini-cells, as they call them, seem to be swallowed up by the cancer cells and taken inside the cancer cells, because that is inherently a very powerful way to actually deliver the drug - actually into the cell." E-mail this to a friend Genes control chemotherapy impact 11 Apr 07 | Health Hope over 'new generation' drugs 18 May 06 | Health London Centre for Nanotechnology The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Experts back folic acid in flour Aspirin 'prevents bowel cancer' Drinking at home 'cuts bingeing' MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/hi/english/static/in_depth/health/2000/heart_disease/default.stm	BBC News | Health | Heart Disease The UK has one of the highest rates of death from heart disease in the world - one British adult dies from the disease every three minutes - and stroke is the country's third biggest killer, claiming 70,000 lives each year. Heart attacks occur when blood flow is blocked, often by a blood clot, while strokes are caused either by blocked or burst blood vessels in the brain. A range of other conditions, including heart failure, when blood is not pumped properly around the body, and congenital heart defects can also cause long term problems, and even death, for sufferers. - The blood returns from the lungs to the upper left chamber of the heart where it is again briefly stored until the atrium fills, before flowing on to the left ventricle. - “Impure” or “blue” blood returning from the atrium enters the heart here, where it is held until the atrium - or chamber - fills up. - This is the most powerful chamber of the heart. It pumps the newly oxygenated blood to the rest of the body through the aorta, or main artery. - This powerful pump propels blood into the pulmonary artery, the tube which carries blood to the lungs, where carbon dioxide in the blood is removed and oxygen added.
http://www.bbc.co.uk/syndication/	BBC Headlines for your site Put the latest headlines on your website, free of charge. Whether you are an experienced webmaster, or running a website for friends and family, adding a BBC News, BBC Sport, or CBBC Headline Box is simple with our four-step process, which you can complete online. Are you eligible to sign-up? The BBC Headline Boxes are available to all public access (no intranets), UK-based sites, subject to certain criteria. Click to read the criteria. If you then wish to apply, click the 'Sign up here' button. BBC News makes most of its news sections avalable in two XML formats - RSS and BBC News XML. If you would like to discuss either of these options with a Business Development manager, please complete the form below. Please select from the options below Please enter any additional information: Please enter your e-mail address: I would like to report a problem I would like to discuss RSS/XML Privacy & Cookies Policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/health/4121411.stm	BBC NEWS | Health | Pregnancy timeline Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Thursday, 23 December, 2004, 13:42 GMT E-mail this to a friend Fertilisation occurs and a ball of quickly multiplying cells embeds itself in the lining of the uterus. In the UK pregnancy is calculated from the first day of the woman's last period so for as much as three weeks of this first month she might not be actually pregnant. When fertilisation does occur the tiny mass of cells called a blastocyst at this stage embeds itself in the lining of the womb which is already thickening to support it. The mass of cells is developing fast and becomes an embryo. For many women the first sign of pregnancy is a missed period. Shopbought tests are considered largely reliable so the mother-to-be does not have to have her pregnancy confirmed by her GP. If a first test is negative a second one a few days later may prove positive as hormone levels in the urine rise. The embryo officially becomes a foetus. It is about the size of a baked bean and its spine and nervous system begin to form. The foetus already has its own blood system and may be a different blood group from its mother. Blood vessels are forming in what will become the umbilical cord and tiny buds which will become limbs appear. The baby&acute;s heart is beginning to develop. Morning sickness and other side effects of early pregnancy may take hold. Around this time many women find they experience the side-effects of early pregnancy including needing to urinate more often nausea and vomiting and feeling a bit weepy and irritable. All medication including supplements need to be carefully checked as the foetus is undergoing vital development in the first 12 weeks. If the woman has not told her GP or community midwife she is pregnant yet now is a good time to do so. It is quite common to have a first scan at this stage if the woman has had a previous miscarriage or bleeding. An early scan is often done through the vagina and is used to check the pregnancy is not ectopic. It should show up the baby&acute;s heartbeat. The nervous system is also developing rapidly especially the brain. The head gets bigger and eyes form under the skin of the face. The foetus' limbs are growing and look more like arms and legs. All internal organs are developing and becoming more complex. The foetus is about 5cm long with its head tucked onto its chest. It has most its major organs and eyes and ears are developing. A scan at 10-13 weeks is recommended to pin down the date of the pregnancy. The umbilical cord is fully formed providing nourishment and removing waste products. The foetus looks fully human now. By this week the threat of miscarriage is much reduced. Many women announce their pregnancy to friends and colleagues. The foetus is growing in length much more quickly by now it is about eight cm long and weighs about 60 grams. The placenta is now wellformed though it's not yet doing its full job it takes over fully in week 14. The mother is likely to have her first scan this week. The womans uterus is becoming larger and is starting to rise out of the pelvis. The foetus can move its head quite easily. Third of the way through. The average pregnancy lasts 266 days or 280 days from the first day of last period. Screening for Downs syndrome is offered about now. A simple blood test is carried out first then further tests may be offered. On the basis of the blood test results the woman may opt for a Chorionic Villus sample or an amniocentesis which would diagnose or other chromosomal abnormalities. However these diagnostic tests have a small risk of subsequent miscarriage. An alternative to blood tests is a nuchal translucency scan a new scan offered by some larger hospitals. But again an amniocentisis would be required for firm diagnosis. The foetus now has toe and finger nails eyebrows and eyelashes. It is also covered with downy hair. The hair that will cover the baby until the last week or so of pregnancy - called lanugo - starts to form. This hair is very fine more like down and it probably serves as some form of insulation and protection for the skin. The foetus can hear noises from the outside world. By this stage the mother is visibly pregnant and the uterus is rising. By this stage the foetus is moving around a lot - probably enough to be felt. The foetus is now about 15-20cm long and weighs about 300g. Milk teeth have formed in the gums. Half way through pregnancy now. Almost all mothers are offered a routine scan. The foetus develops a waxy coating called vernix. The scan can show the foetus in fine detail and often reveal if the baby is a boy or a girl. However not all hospitals offer to tell parents the sex of the child - and not all parents want to know. The mother may feel short of breath as her uterus pushes against her diaphragm leaving less space for the lungs. The mother may be offered another ultrasound scan around this time. The scan can check the baby&acute;s spine internal organs and growth are normal. Senses develop: taste buds have started to form on the tongue and the foetus starts to feel touch. The skeleton continues to develop and bones that form the skull begin to harden - but not fully. Antenatal checkup and scan to check the baby&acute;s position. A baby born this early does sometimes survive. A baby born at 24 weeks may possibly survive but it would have severe breathing difficulties as its lungs would not be strong enough to cope. It would also be very thin lightweight and susceptible to infections. All organs are now in place and the rest of the pregnancy is for growth. Preeclampsia is a risk from here onwards. This potentially fatal condition causes high blood pressure protein in the urine and swelling caused by fluid retention. The causes are unclear but research suggests it may be linked to an immune reaction to the foetus or the placenta. If the condition is serious women may be advised to take drugs to lower their blood pressure and in some cases an early caesarean or induction may be performed. Serious complications of pregnancy The foetus skin is gradually becoming more opaque than transparent. The foetus measures about 34cm and weighs about 800g. Routine checkup to test for preeclampsia. Women with Rhesus negative blood will also be tested for antibodies. If the mother has Rh negative blood but the baby is Rh positive she can develop antibodies to her baby&acute;s blood during labour. This is not a problem in the first birth but can affect subsequent pregnancies and result in stillbirth. Fortunately treatment is simple and effective. BBC Health: Ask the doctor - Rhesus disease Some women develop restless leg syndrome in their third trimester. This is sensations such as crawling tingling or even cramps and burning inside the foot or leg - often in the evening and at night disturbing sleep and making the mother feel she needs to get up and walk around. No-one knows what causes this harmless but irritating condition. Braxton Hicks contractions may begin around now. They are practice contractions which dont usually hurt. These are irregular, painless contractions which feel like a squeezing sensation near the top of the uterus. If contractions become painful or occur four times an hour or more, the woman should call a doctor as she may be in early labour. The foetus can see now and tell light from dark. The mother&acute;s breasts start to produce colostrum about now This high calorie milk is produced by the mother to feed the baby for the first few days after birth before normal milk starts. Another antenatal appointment. The foetus is about 42cm and weighs 2.2kg. A baby born now has a good chance of survival. From now the baby should become settled in a head downwards position. A midwife can help to move it if necessary. The mother may find it more difficult to eat full meals as the expanded uterus presses on her stomach. If the mother has been told she may need a planned caesarean, now is a good time to discuss it further. The baby&acute;s head may engage in the pelvis any time now. The baby&acute;s lungs are practically mature now and it can survive unaided. The final weeks in the womb are to put on weight. Babies born from this week onward are not considered early. Another ante-natal appointment. The mother has reached her full size and weight by now. In theory the baby should be born this week. The mother&acute;s cervix prepares for the birth by softening. First babies are often up to a week late but if there are signs of distress to mother or child the birth will be induced. E-mail this to a friend A week by week guide to what happens to mother and baby during pregnancy Nine months: An overview Experts back folic acid in flour Aspirin 'prevents bowel cancer' Drinking at home 'cuts bingeing' Week at a Glance Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/northern_ireland/6645479.stm	BBC NEWS | Northern Ireland | Baby unit 'to re-open next week' Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 17:42 GMT 18:42 UK E-mail this to a friend Baby unit 'to re-open next week' The neonatal unit treats the sickest babies in Northern Ireland A consultant at the neonatal unit in Belfast where three premature babies picked up an infection said it hopes to resume admissions next week. The Royal Maternity Hospital closed the unit temporarily to new admissions after the babies became seriously ill. The ward has now been chemically decontaminated. Health Minister Michael McGimpsey said eliminating infections in hospitals was a priority. Dr Stanley Craig said the babies were responding well to antibiotics. "Any infection when you're particularly compromised, as a pre-term baby is, is potentially life-threatening," he said. "These babies are responding to the antibiotics that they're on, which is good news for the babies themselves, their parents and the staff involved in their care. The hospital hopes to re-open the unit next week "Being born premature does leave you very vulnerable to infection and it can be a problem, but we're seeing encouraging signs." The babies, who picked up a multi-resistant enterobacter infection, have been isolated and are being closely monitored by specially trained nurses. The health minister said the situation was not acceptable and pointed out there had been much investment in the area of patient safety. "It is one of the issues that we look at ...and it's one of the areas I take very, very seriously," said Mr McGimpsey. "Obviously when people go to hospital they expect not to pick up infection, when they're there. There is an incidence of infections in hospitals and we look to eliminate that because whatever the incidence is, it is ... too high." Iris Robinson of the DUP said she was concerned about the impact on other hospitals. "What I am particularly concerned about is how the other hospitals across the province are going to deal with demand while the Royal's neonatal unit is out of operation," she said. "Usually the most unwell babies from all around Northern Ireland would be transferred to the specialist unit in Belfast. "Obviously this will not be the case for the immediate future, and these cases will have to be managed in their local units." E-mail this to a friend VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS Dot Kirby reports on the units closure Royal Hospitals maternity unit The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites TOP NORTHERN IRELAND STORIES Sanchez resigning as NI manager Police renew city murder appeal Man is arrested over pub shooting MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://search.yahoo.com/mrss	Media RSS Module - RSS 2.0 Module "Media RSS" Specification Version 1.1.1 An RSS module that supplements the 02/21/2005 - Major consolidation of all requested changes: [1.0.0] Added additional type of element to distinguish content of an adult nature. Modified to have a attribute for better module consistency. to allow specifying categorization scheme. for a human readable label. element for media binary hashing. to distinguish formatting of text. Improved descriptions of various elements and attributes. 08/22/2005 - Improved global syndication capabilities: [1.1.0] attributes to media:text and media:content. to give more flexibility to represent things other than people or companies. to explicitly determine what type of media is expressed. Added a "Best Practices" section to encourage use of the Feed History module, and Dublin Core's expiration capability. Add time code information to 10/22/2005 - Minor improvements: [1.1.1] Added capability for elements to appear at the to allow explicit global relationships to be expressed. The namespace for Media RSS is defined to be: "Media RSS" is a new RSS module that supplements the enclosure capabilities of RSS 2.0. RSS enclosures are already being used to syndicate audio files and images. Media RSS extends enclosures to handle other media types, such as short films or TV, as well as provide additional metadata with the media. Media RSS enables content publishers and bloggers to syndicate multimedia content such as TV and video clips, movies, images, and audio. is a sub-element of . It allows grouping of elements that are effectively the same content, yet different representations. For instance: the same song recorded in both the WAV and MP3 format. It's an optional element that must only be used for this purpose. is a sub-element of either . Media objects that are not the same content should not be included in the same element. The sequence of these items implies the order of presentation. While many of the attributes appear to be audio/video specific, this element can be used to publish any type of media. It contains 14 attributes, most of which are optional. should specify the direct url to the media object. If not included, a element must be specified. is the number of bytes of the media object. It is an optional attribute. is the standard MIME type of the object. It is an optional attribute. is the type of object (image | audio | video | document | executable). While this attribute can at times seem redundant if is supplied, it is included because it simplifies decision making on the reader side, as well as flushes out any ambiguities between MIME type and object type. It is an optional attribute. determines if this is the default object that should be used for the . There should only be one default object per . It is an optional attribute. determines if the object is a sample or the full version of the object, or even if it is a continuous stream (sample | full | nonstop). Default value is 'full'. It is an optional attribute. is the kilobits per second rate of media. It is an optional attribute. is the number of frames per second for the media object. It is an optional attribute. is the number of samples per second taken to create the media object. It is expressed in thousands of samples per second (kHz). It is an optional attribute. is number of audio channels in the media object. It is an optional attribute. is the number of seconds the media object plays. It is an optional attribute. is the height of the media object. It is an optional attribute. is the width of the media object. It is an optional attribute. is the primary language encapsulated in the media object. Language codes possible are detailed in RFC 3066. This attribute is used similar to the attribute detailed in the XML 1.0 Specification (Third Edition). It is an optional attribute. These optional attributes, along with the optional elements below, contain the primary metadata entries needed to index and organize media content. Additional supported attributes for describing images, audio, and video may be added in future revisions of this document. have no limitations on the number of times they can appear, the general nature of RSS should be preserved: an represents a "story". Simply stated, this is similar to the blog style of syndication. However, if one is using this module to strictly publish media, there should be one element for each media object/group. This is to allow for proper attribution for the origination of the media content through the element. It also allows the full benefit of the other RSS elements to be realized. The following elements are optional and may appear as sub-elements of When an element appears at a shallow level, such as , it means that the element should be applied to every media object within its scope. Duplicated elements appearing at deeper levels of the document tree have higher priority over other levels. For example, level elements are favored over level elements. The priority level is listed from strongest to weakest: [NOTE: This is deprecated, and has been replaced with the more flexible This allows the permissible audience to be declared. If this element is not included, it assumes that no restrictions are necessary. It has one optional attribute. r (cz 1 lz 1 nz 1 oz 1 vz 1) is the URI that identifies the rating scheme. It is an optional attribute. If this attribute is not included, the default scheme is urn:simple (adult | nonadult). The title of the particular media object. It has 1 optional attribute. The Judy's - The Moo Song specifies the type of text embedded. Possible values are either 'plain' or 'html'. Default value is 'plain'. All html must be entity-encoded. It is an optional attribute. Short description describing the media object typically a sentence in length. It has 1 optional attribute. This was some really bizarre band I listened to as a young lad. specifies the type of text embedded. Possible values are either 'plain' or 'html'. Default value is 'plain'. All html must be entity-encoded. It is an optional attribute. Highly relevant keywords describing the media object with typically a maximum of ten words. The keywords and phrases should be comma delimited. kitty, cat, big dog, yarn, fluffy Allows particular images to be used as representative images for the media object. If multiple thumbnails are included, and time coding is not at play, it is assumed that the images are in order of importance. It has 1 required attribute and 3 optional attributes. specifies the url of the thumbnail. It is a required attribute. specifies the height of the thumbnail. It is an optional attribute. specifies the width of the thumbnail. It is an optional attribute. specifies the time offset in relation to the media object. Typically this is used when creating multiple keyframes within a single video. The format for this attribute should be in the DSM-CC's Normal Play Time (NTP) as used in RTSP [ RFC 2326 3.6 Normal Play Time ]. It is an optional attribute. NTP has a second or subsecond resolution. It is specified as H:M:S.h (npt-hhmmss) or S.h (npt-sec), where H=hours, M=minutes, S=second and h=fractions of a second. A possible alternative to NTP would be SMPTE. It is believed that NTP is simpler and easier to use. Allows a taxonomy to be set that gives an indication of the type of media content, and its particular contents. It has 2 optional attributes. is the URI that identifies the categorization scheme. It is an optional attribute. If this attribute is not included, the default scheme is 'http://search.yahoo.com/mrss/category_schema'. is the human readable label that can be displayed in end user applications. It is an optional attribute. This is the hash of the binary media file. It can appear multiple times as long as each instance is a different . It has 1 optional attribute. indicates the algorithm used to create the hash. Possible values are 'md5' and 'sha-1'. Default value is 'md5'. It is an optional attribute. Allows the media object to be accessed through a web browser media player console. This element is required only if a direct media attribute is not specified in the element. It has 1 required attribute, and 2 optional attributes. is the url of the player console that plays the media. It is a required attribute. is the height of the browser window that the should be opened in. It is an optional attribute. is the width of the browser window that the should be opened in. It is an optional attribute. Notable entity and the contribution to the creation of the media object. Current entities can include people, companies, locations, etc. Specific entities can have multiple roles, and several entities can have the same role. These should appear as distinct elements. It has 2 optional attributes. role specifies the role the entity played. Must be lowercase. It is an optional attribute. is the URI that identifies the role scheme. It is an optional attribute. If this attribute is not included, the default scheme is 'urn:ebu'. See: European Broadcasting Union Role Codes. actor anchor person author choreographer composer conductor director editor graphic designer grip illustrator lyricist music arranger music group musician orchestra performer photographer producer reporter vocalist European Broadcasting Union Role Codes Copyright information for media object. It has 1 optional attribute. is the url for a terms of use page or additional copyright information. If the media is operating under a Creative Commons license, the Creative Commons module should be used instead. It is an optional attribute. Allows the inclusion of a text transcript, closed captioning, or lyrics of the media content. Many of these elements are permitted to provide a time series of text. In such cases, it is encouraged, but not required, that the elements be grouped by language and appear in time sequence order based on the time. Elements can have overlapping times. It has 4 optional attributes. Oh, say, can you see By the dawn's early light specifies the type of text embedded. Possible values are either 'plain' or 'html'. Default value is 'plain'. All html must be entity-encoded. It is an optional attribute. is the primary language encapsulated in the media object. Language codes possible are detailed in RFC 3066. This attribute is used similar to the xml:lang attribute detailed in the XML 1.0 Specification (Third Edition). It is an optional attribute. specifies the start time offset that the text starts being relevant to the media object. An example of this would be for closed captioning. It uses the NTP time code format (see: the time attribute used in ). It is an optional attribute. specifies the end time that the text is relevant. If this attribute is not provided, and a time is used, it is expected that the end time is either the end of the clip or the start of the next Allows restrictions to be placed on the aggregator rendering the media in the feed. Currently, restrictions are based on distributor (uri) and country codes. This element is purely informational and no obligation can be assumed or implied. Only one element of the same can be applied to a media object - all others will be ignored. Entities in this element should be space separated. To allow the producer to explicitly declare his/her intentions, two literals are reserved: 'all', 'none'. These literals can only be used once. This element has 1 required attribute, and 1 optional attribute (with strict requirements for its exclusion). indicates the type of relationship that the restriction represents (allow | deny). In the example above, the media object should only be syndicated in Australia and the United States. It is a required attribute. If the "allow" element is empty and the type is relationship is "allow", it is assumed that the empty list means "allow nobody" and the media should not be syndicated. A more explicit method would be: specifies the type of restriction (country | uri) that the media can be syndicated. It is an optional attribute; however can only be excluded when using one of the literal values "all" or "none". "country" allows restrictions to be placed based on country code. [ "uri" allows restrictions based on URI. Examples: urn:apple, http://images.google.com, urn:yahoo, etc. The following are encouraged "best practices" when using Media RSS: If your feed is not an "incremental" in the traditional RSS sense, but rather an entire snapshot of all media available, please take note of the element. This element when set to "false" correctly informs the RSS reader that the current feed replaces the previously fetched feed. If you prefer to syndicate media more along the lines of traditional RSS, this specification also allows you to daisy chain multiple feeds together to compose a history of media that is available on your site. Expirations Using Dublin Core To the best of your ability, media that is scheduled to expire after a given time should be duly noted through Dublin Core's A recently created movie, using the RSS 2.0 element and without the use of the Media RSS module. A movie review with a trailer, using a Creative Commons license. My Movie Review Site Movie Title: Is this a good movie? A music video with a link to a player window, and additional metadata about the video, including expiration date. Discussions of great videos The latest video from an artist Oh, say, can you see, by the dawn's early light Several different songs that relate to the same topic. Discussion on different songs These songs make me think about blah Same song with multiple files at different bitrates and encodings. (Bittorrent example as well) Songs galore at different bitrates Cool song by an artist Thank you to everyone who has contributed to this specification, and to all those that sent suggestions and corrections. The Yahoo! Group " " has been instrumental in helping transform the initial Media RSS proposal into a working specification. While there have been many helpful individuals from this community, special thanks go to Danny Ayers, Marc Canter, Lucas Gonze, Vadim Zaliva, Greg Smith, Robert Sayre, Suzan Foster, Erwin van Hunen, Greg Gershman, Jennifer Kolar, Bill Kearney, and Andreas Haugstrup Pedersen. On the Yahoo! team: David Hall, John Thrall, Eckart Walther, Jeremy Zawodny, Andy Volk, and Bradley Horowitz. On the Google team: David Marwood and Peter Chane. Copyright &copy; 2007 Yahoo! Inc. All rights reserved.
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/health/6644293.stm	BBC NEWS | Health | Call for mental heath care push Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 07:27 GMT 08:27 UK E-mail this to a friend Call for mental heath care push Most mental health treatment takes place out of hospitals Mental health services must renew their efforts to improve community care, the mental health tsar says. Professor Louis Appleby has called on NHS trusts to look at new ways of working to help people rebuild lives. He said they should look to work more closely with employment and housing agencies and cut waiting lists for talking therapies in England. Campaigners said there was a lot of work to do to ensure services were good enough for patients. In the last eight years, there has been a big push to move care out of hospitals and into the community. With units and day centres closing and community services cut, the more seriously ill are still being neglected and put at risk Marjorie Wallace, of Sane There are now more than 700 community teams, including nurses, doctors and social workers, providing a range of crisis help and early intervention. However, the Healthcare Commission last year criticised services, pointing to gaps in out-of-hours care, talking therapies and access to information. Nearly half of services were rated as fair or weak. Professor Appleby said the report was about the next phase of reform of mental health care. He told BBC News: "We've had several years of strengthening what community services do, and the report is about breaking down the barriers in the next stage of reforms. "I'm talking about barriers that get in the way of better patients' experience of care "At the moment, for example, there is a barrier between what health services traditionally do, which is clinical care, improving people's illnesses, abolishing their symptoms. "But what patients often tell us they want is help with quality of life. They want opportunities for training, for jobs, and for decent housing, and we have to take on that responsibility." His report called on the 60 mental heath trusts to consult with their local populations about what they needed. The report said mental health trusts should look at ways they could link up with agencies responsible for housing and employment. It also called for community teams to get involved in giving people more advice on how to reduce alcohol and drug use and look after their physical health. He also called for a renewed effort to reduce waiting lists for talking therapies such as cognitive behavioural therapy, which sometimes has waits of over 12 months. The NHS is currently rolling out a programme of providing people with access to computerised CBT and the government has set up 10 pilots to explore ways of speeding up access to talking therapies. Marjorie Wallace, chief executive of the mental health charity Sane, said extra investment was needed. "We are all too aware that with units and day centres closing and community services cut, the more seriously ill are still being neglected and put at risk. "The government goes forward with its policy of reform and choice, but there are thousands who have no choice of where to go in crisis and little chance of rehabilitation or safe, consistent care, both in or out of hospital." E-mail this to a friend Firms urged to help mentally ill Mental health wards 'unpleasant' Mental health services 'failing' Young 'failed' on mental health Fear over health of mentally ill 'My company helped me recover' 'The services were just not there' 'I'm so glad I didn't kill myself' 'I have washed my hands of NHS' 'I learned to live with voices' Kicking depression into touch The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Experts back folic acid in flour Aspirin 'prevents bowel cancer' Drinking at home 'cuts bingeing' MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/health/3444635.stm	BBC NEWS | Health | Cancer: The facts Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 30 January 2004, 11:57 GMT E-mail this to a friend One in three of us will be diagnosed with cancer during our life. The disease tends to affect older people - but can strike at any time. Excluding certain skin cancers, there were more than 270,000 new cases of the disease in 2001 - and the rate is increasing by about 1% a year. Some cancer, such as breast, are becoming more common, while new cases of lung cancer fall away due to the drop in the number of smokers. However, while the overall number of new cancers is not falling, the good news is that successful treatment rates for many of the most common types are improving rapidly. BBC News Online has produced, in conjunction with Cancer Research UK, a guide to some of the most common forms of cancer and the treatments used to tackle them. To learn more about different types of cancer, and to read the experiences of patients, click on the links to the right. E-mail this to a friend Cancer - the facts Cervical and Uterine Cancers National Cancer Research Institute The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Experts back folic acid in flour Aspirin 'prevents bowel cancer' Drinking at home 'cuts bingeing' Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/health/6648059.stm	BBC NEWS | Health | Experts back folic acid in flour Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 17:03 GMT 18:03 UK E-mail this to a friend Experts back folic acid in flour Under the plan, all bread would be made with folic acid-fortified flour The UK's official food watchdog is backing the mandatory fortification of flour with folic acid to reduce birth defects such as spina bifida. The proposal will go before the board of the Food Standards Agency next week for ratification. If passed, ministers will then decide whether to press ahead. Scientific research shows that folic acid significantly cuts the risk of neural tube defects, which affect up to 900 pregnancies a year in the UK. However, there is concern that adding the vitamin to flour could harm some elderly patients, as it could mask a deficiency in the B12 vitamin. Up to 10% of those aged 65 and older have borderline B12 levels and could tip into deficiency. In extreme cases, this can cause irreversible damage to the nervous system. The recommendation to the FSA board suggests that products containing folic acid at nutritionally significant levels should be clearly labelled. It also argues that mandatory fortification should be accompanied by new controls on the voluntary addition of folic acid to other products, such as breakfast cereals and low-fat spreads, and on the use of folic acid supplements. A system for monitoring the health impact of fortification would also be needed. Wholemeal flour would be exempt from fortification in order to give consumers more choice. The FSA already advises women to eat extra folic acid when trying to get pregnant. However, research suggests that only half of such women adhere to this advice. Also, up to half of pregnancies are unplanned, meaning women may miss the opportunity. Each year between 500 and 600 babies in the UK are reported to have neural tube defects. It is thought many of the other affected pregnancies are terminated. Mandatory fortification has already been introduced in the USA, Canada and Chile, where it cut NTD rates by between 27% and 50%. A panel of UK experts, the Scientific Advisory Committee on Nutrition (SACN), last year backed mandatory fortification of flour. SACN found no evidence that vitamin B12 deficiency was masked in older people, provided folic acid doses were 1mg a day or less. An FSA consultation on the issue drew 202 responses from industry, consumer groups and individuals. The baking industry raised "practical concerns" about the fortification of bread. It said bread-making flour couldn't easily be separated from other flours in mills. E-mail this to a friend Folic acid 'should be in flour' 12 Dec 06 | Health Folic acid boosts IVF twin births 05 May 06 | Health Folic acid 'cuts dementia risk' 15 Aug 05 | Health Push to add folic acid to bread 05 Apr 06 | Health Association for Spina Bifida and Hydrocephalus Scientific Advisory Committee of Nutrition The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Experts back folic acid in flour Aspirin 'prevents bowel cancer' Drinking at home 'cuts bingeing' MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/education/6641811.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Toddlers to get help with talking Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Thursday, 10 May 2007, 10:28 GMT 11:28 UK E-mail this to a friend Toddlers to get help with talking One in 10 children have a communication disability Toddlers are to get help learning how to talk in a bid to cut the numbers of children starting school with poor language skills for their age. Half of children enter primary school unable to speak as well as they are expected to, research suggests. The Early Talk programme which uses gestures, symbols and signing to expand vocabulary, is being piloted in 200 government-backed children's centres. It will also be used to target youngsters with potential difficulties. Television doesn't respond well to children. ICAN head of Early Years Clare Geldard, head of Early Years for the charity behind the programme, I CAN, said there were concerns that the number of pre-school children with speech and language difficulties was on the rise. "We don't know why this is the case and I am sure there are a myriad of reasons. "We know that television can be used in a really productive way in terms of watching a piece of television and then having a conversation about it afterwards, but we also know that television doesn't respond well to children. "It does not give them the interactivity that children and adults instinctively seek from adults." She said the Early Talk programme was about ensuring that nursery staff, childminders and parents had the basic skills they needed to enhance children's speech, language and communication. "Everybody needs to have a basic knowledge about what we can do to enhance children's speech and language development," she said. But it was also about ensuring that those children who had the potential to go on to develop speech and language difficulties were picked up early and given the help they need. I CAN's chief executive Virginia Beardshaw said one in 10 children across the UK were thought to have a communication disability. She added that the Early Talk programme, which will ultimately be rolled out to 3,000 Sure Start children's centres, would foster environments "where communication is embedded". This would range from using pictures, symbols and gestures to teach vocabulary to using group work and specialist help from speech and language therapists, she said. Children's minister Beverley Hughes said: "Communication is a vital skill in life and we want to help all children communicate better and reap the rewards of that later in life. "This is especially important for children who have trouble communicating - particularly those with a communication disability - who are much more likely to develop behavioural and learning problems." She said she hoped the partnership being announced would play a vital role in identifying children's difficulties at an early stage. Nursery and children's centre staff will be given training and packages of support to help ensure children's language skills are polished and it is hoped this will be passed on to parents and children's carers. E-mail this to a friend Communication skills 'cut re-offending' 05 May 07 | Health 'Double blow' for autistic pupils 16 Apr 07 | Education Autism 'more common than thought' 13 Jul 06 | Health 'Two languages' call for children 21 Feb 07 | Edinburgh and East The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows City teachers could get more cash MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/health/6646581.stm	BBC NEWS | Health | Cancer therapy cuts side effects Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 11:48 GMT 12:48 UK E-mail this to a friend Cancer therapy cuts side effects Chemotherapy can cause nasty side effects Scientists say they have developed a way to deliver lethal drug doses to tumours without causing side-effects, such as nausea and hair loss. The Australian team has used nanotechnology to create tiny particles which specifically attack cancer cells, but leave healthy tissue unaffected. The particles - or mini-cells - are tagged with anti-cancer antibodies so they zero in on their target. The research features in the journal Cancer Cell. There is no other system where you can get so much drug concentrated into a little parcel It is hoped the technique could treat tumours in the breast, ovaries, colon and lungs. So far it has been used in mice and dogs, and the researchers plan to begin human trials shortly. Traditional chemotherapy typically involves subjecting the patient's entire body to powerful drugs, which can cause a range of severe side-effects. The mini-cells - about one-fifth the size of a normal cell - were created from bacteria cells stripped of their reproductive powers. They were then loaded with cancer drugs, and tagged with antibodies which are attracted to cancerous tumours. Once the cell reaches the cancer, the drug is released directly into the malignant growth. Researcher Jennifer MacDiarmid, from Sydney-based biotechnology company EnGeneIC, said: "There is no other system where you can get so much drug concentrated into a little parcel." In tests, the technique reduced tumours in animals without side effects - and by using only a very small amount of drug. Dr MacDiarmid said the treatment could potentially be used on any solid tumours. She said the technique potentially paved the way for customised drug cocktails for individual patients. Professor Quentin Pankhurst, of the London Centre for Nanotechnology, said: "The concept of targeted drug delivery is something which has been around for a while and there are many different avenues that have been tested. "This one looks like an interesting and promising one. "I particularly like the fact that these mini-cells, as they call them, seem to be swallowed up by the cancer cells and taken inside the cancer cells, because that is inherently a very powerful way to actually deliver the drug - actually into the cell." E-mail this to a friend Genes control chemotherapy impact 11 Apr 07 | Health Hope over 'new generation' drugs 18 May 06 | Health London Centre for Nanotechnology The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Experts back folic acid in flour Aspirin 'prevents bowel cancer' Drinking at home 'cuts bingeing' MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/england/essex/6644841.stm	BBC NEWS | England | Essex | Gynaecologist lacked op consent Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Thursday, 10 May 2007, 20:02 GMT 21:02 UK E-mail this to a friend Gynaecologist lacked op consent The General Medical Council said the case was "wholly exceptional" A gynaecologist who failed to obtain consent from a woman for an operation which left her unable to have sex has not been struck off. The General Medical Council (GMC) ruled it had been an "exceptional" case that saw Essex-based Dr June Swinhoe fail in her practise. Marian Howland, 52, from Epping, had not been made aware of risks linked to her operation for a prolapse in 2003. The GMC panel ruled Dr Swinhoe posed no risk to patients. In March 2003, Dr Swinhoe was working as a consultant gynaecologist at King George Hospital in Ilford and privately at Holly House Hospital in Buckhurst Hill. I have lost a lot of my life and all unnecessarily Mrs Howland had been married for eight years when she visited Dr Swinhoe with a prolapse and discomfort during sex. She told the panel she was admitted for the prolapse to be repaired but was not informed of all the side effects or of any risks associated with the procedures. Dr Swinhoe had not taken a full medical history from Mrs Howland who had previously had a hysterectomy, her ovaries removed and become blind in one eye. In tears, Mrs Howland told the panel a few weeks after the operation it became clear she had been left unable to have sex, and had been left "shell-shocked". She added: "I have lost my best friend, my husband, my lover. "I have lost a lot of my life and all unnecessarily." The panel told Dr Swinhoe: "The deficiencies in your communication with Mrs Howland and your failure to obtain consent from her were an aberration and amount to an isolated departure from your usual high standards of professional competence and care. "The finding that your fitness is impaired is, in itself, a very significant mark on your record. "You have learned from this distressing experience. "This is a wholly exceptional case and in the circumstances the panel is satisfied that it is fair, proportionate and sufficient to conclude the case without taking any action in respect of your registration." E-mail this to a friend Sport, travel, leisure and more from the BBC website for Essex New lead over Oliver pub robbery Four arrested in drugs house raid Crews tackle fire at listed hotel MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/health/6639461.stm	BBC NEWS | Health | Oral sex linked to throat cancer Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Thursday, 10 May 2007, 07:40 GMT 08:40 UK E-mail this to a friend Oral sex linked to throat cancer Scientists looked at tissue samples from patients A virus contracted through oral sex is the cause of some throat cancers, say US scientists. HPV infection was found to be a much stronger risk factor than tobacco or alcohol use, the Johns Hopkins University study of 300 people found. The New England Journal of Medicine study said the risk was almost nine times higher for people who reported oral sex with more than six partners. But experts said a larger study was needed to confirm the findings. HPV infection is the cause of the majority of cervical cancers, and 80% of sexually active women can expect to have an HPV infection at some point in their lives. It is important for health care providers to know that people without the traditional risk factors of tobacco and alcohol use can nevertheless be at risk of oropharyngeal cancer Dr Gypsyamber D'Souza, study author The Johns Hopkins study took blood and saliva from 100 men and women newly diagnosed with oropharyngeal cancer which affects the throat, tonsils and back of the tongue. They also asked questions about sex practices and other risk factors for the disease, such as family history. Those who had evidence of prior oral HPV infection had a 32-fold increased risk of throat cancer. HPV16 - one of the most common cancer-causing strains of the virus - was present in the tumours of 72% of cancer patients in the study. There was no added risk for people infected with HPV who also smoked and drank alcohol, suggesting the virus itself is driving the risk of the cancer. Oral sex was said to be the main mode of transmission of HPV but the researchers said mouth-to-mouth transmission, for example through kissing, could not be ruled out. Most HPV infections clear with little or no symptoms but a small percentage of people who acquired high-risk strains may develop a cancer, the researchers added. Study author Dr Gypsyamber D'Souza said: "It is important for health care providers to know that people without the traditional risk factors of tobacco and alcohol use can nevertheless be at risk of oropharyngeal cancer." Co-researcher Dr Maura Gillison said previous research by the team had suggested there was a strong link. But she added: "People should be reassured that oropharyngeal cancer is relatively uncommon and the overwhelming majority of people with an oral HPV infection probably will not get throat cancer." A vaccine which protects against cervical cancer caused by HPV strains 6, 11, 16 and 18, and also against genital warts is available and the researchers said the study provided a rationale for vaccinating both girls and boys. But whether the vaccine would protect against oral HPV infection is not yet known. Dr Julie Sharp, science information officer at Cancer Research UK, said: "There is conflicting evidence about the role of HPV, and this rare type of mouth cancer. "As this was a small study, further research is needed to confirm these observations." "We know that after age, the main causes of mouth cancer are smoking or chewing tobacco or betel nut, and drinking too much alcohol." E-mail this to a friend Cancer jab plea for girls aged 11 06 Oct 06 | Health Virus causes most cervical cancer 23 Sep 03 | Health Oral cancer fear for Asians 03 Mar 03 | Health Cervical cancer vaccine success 20 Nov 02 | Health New England Journal of Medicine Johns Hopkins Cancer Center Condom Essential Wear campaign The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Experts back folic acid in flour Aspirin 'prevents bowel cancer' Drinking at home 'cuts bingeing' MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/education/6641811.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Toddlers to get help with talking Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Thursday, 10 May 2007, 10:28 GMT 11:28 UK E-mail this to a friend Toddlers to get help with talking One in 10 children have a communication disability Toddlers are to get help learning how to talk in a bid to cut the numbers of children starting school with poor language skills for their age. Half of children enter primary school unable to speak as well as they are expected to, research suggests. The Early Talk programme which uses gestures, symbols and signing to expand vocabulary, is being piloted in 200 government-backed children's centres. It will also be used to target youngsters with potential difficulties. Television doesn't respond well to children. ICAN head of Early Years Clare Geldard, head of Early Years for the charity behind the programme, I CAN, said there were concerns that the number of pre-school children with speech and language difficulties was on the rise. "We don't know why this is the case and I am sure there are a myriad of reasons. "We know that television can be used in a really productive way in terms of watching a piece of television and then having a conversation about it afterwards, but we also know that television doesn't respond well to children. "It does not give them the interactivity that children and adults instinctively seek from adults." She said the Early Talk programme was about ensuring that nursery staff, childminders and parents had the basic skills they needed to enhance children's speech, language and communication. "Everybody needs to have a basic knowledge about what we can do to enhance children's speech and language development," she said. But it was also about ensuring that those children who had the potential to go on to develop speech and language difficulties were picked up early and given the help they need. I CAN's chief executive Virginia Beardshaw said one in 10 children across the UK were thought to have a communication disability. She added that the Early Talk programme, which will ultimately be rolled out to 3,000 Sure Start children's centres, would foster environments "where communication is embedded". This would range from using pictures, symbols and gestures to teach vocabulary to using group work and specialist help from speech and language therapists, she said. Children's minister Beverley Hughes said: "Communication is a vital skill in life and we want to help all children communicate better and reap the rewards of that later in life. "This is especially important for children who have trouble communicating - particularly those with a communication disability - who are much more likely to develop behavioural and learning problems." She said she hoped the partnership being announced would play a vital role in identifying children's difficulties at an early stage. Nursery and children's centre staff will be given training and packages of support to help ensure children's language skills are polished and it is hoped this will be passed on to parents and children's carers. E-mail this to a friend Communication skills 'cut re-offending' 05 May 07 | Health 'Double blow' for autistic pupils 16 Apr 07 | Education Autism 'more common than thought' 13 Jul 06 | Health 'Two languages' call for children 21 Feb 07 | Edinburgh and East The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows City teachers could get more cash MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/england/beds/bucks/herts/6647995.stm	BBC NEWS | England | Beds/Bucks/Herts | Screening as pupils contract TB Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 16:35 GMT 17:35 UK E-mail this to a friend Screening as pupils contract TB Early diagnosis is key to treating TB Pupils and teachers at a junior school are being screened for TB after four pupils tested positive for the disease. A letter was sent to parents of pupils at Southfields Junior School, in Luton, Beds, offering the tests after a pupil displayed symptoms of tuberculosis. Three of his classmates were confirmed to also be in the early stages of the disease, which the Health Protection Agency said is not contracted easily. Luton has three times as many incidents of TB than the national average. The bacteria, which commonly affects the lungs, is on the increase nationally, the Health Protection Agency has said. The affected pupils are being treated with antibiotics and the school has offered the screening as a precaution. E-mail this to a friend BBC Beds Bucks and Herts Travel, leisure, sport, message boards and much more Tuberculosis testing at hospital 11 May 07 | North East/N Isles Tuberculosis cases 'are rising' 22 Mar 07 | Health The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Screening as pupils contract TB Bronson gets payout from prison Cyclist killed in van collision MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/health/6639461.stm	BBC NEWS | Health | Oral sex linked to throat cancer Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Thursday, 10 May 2007, 07:40 GMT 08:40 UK E-mail this to a friend Oral sex linked to throat cancer Scientists looked at tissue samples from patients A virus contracted through oral sex is the cause of some throat cancers, say US scientists. HPV infection was found to be a much stronger risk factor than tobacco or alcohol use, the Johns Hopkins University study of 300 people found. The New England Journal of Medicine study said the risk was almost nine times higher for people who reported oral sex with more than six partners. But experts said a larger study was needed to confirm the findings. HPV infection is the cause of the majority of cervical cancers, and 80% of sexually active women can expect to have an HPV infection at some point in their lives. It is important for health care providers to know that people without the traditional risk factors of tobacco and alcohol use can nevertheless be at risk of oropharyngeal cancer Dr Gypsyamber D'Souza, study author The Johns Hopkins study took blood and saliva from 100 men and women newly diagnosed with oropharyngeal cancer which affects the throat, tonsils and back of the tongue. They also asked questions about sex practices and other risk factors for the disease, such as family history. Those who had evidence of prior oral HPV infection had a 32-fold increased risk of throat cancer. HPV16 - one of the most common cancer-causing strains of the virus - was present in the tumours of 72% of cancer patients in the study. There was no added risk for people infected with HPV who also smoked and drank alcohol, suggesting the virus itself is driving the risk of the cancer. Oral sex was said to be the main mode of transmission of HPV but the researchers said mouth-to-mouth transmission, for example through kissing, could not be ruled out. Most HPV infections clear with little or no symptoms but a small percentage of people who acquired high-risk strains may develop a cancer, the researchers added. Study author Dr Gypsyamber D'Souza said: "It is important for health care providers to know that people without the traditional risk factors of tobacco and alcohol use can nevertheless be at risk of oropharyngeal cancer." Co-researcher Dr Maura Gillison said previous research by the team had suggested there was a strong link. But she added: "People should be reassured that oropharyngeal cancer is relatively uncommon and the overwhelming majority of people with an oral HPV infection probably will not get throat cancer." A vaccine which protects against cervical cancer caused by HPV strains 6, 11, 16 and 18, and also against genital warts is available and the researchers said the study provided a rationale for vaccinating both girls and boys. But whether the vaccine would protect against oral HPV infection is not yet known. Dr Julie Sharp, science information officer at Cancer Research UK, said: "There is conflicting evidence about the role of HPV, and this rare type of mouth cancer. "As this was a small study, further research is needed to confirm these observations." "We know that after age, the main causes of mouth cancer are smoking or chewing tobacco or betel nut, and drinking too much alcohol." E-mail this to a friend Cancer jab plea for girls aged 11 06 Oct 06 | Health Virus causes most cervical cancer 23 Sep 03 | Health Oral cancer fear for Asians 03 Mar 03 | Health Cervical cancer vaccine success 20 Nov 02 | Health New England Journal of Medicine Johns Hopkins Cancer Center Condom Essential Wear campaign The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Experts back folic acid in flour Aspirin 'prevents bowel cancer' Drinking at home 'cuts bingeing' MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/health/6639711.stm	BBC NEWS | Health | UK licence for breast cancer drug Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Thursday, 10 May 2007, 10:34 GMT 11:34 UK E-mail this to a friend UK licence for breast cancer drug The drug may extend life for some women A new drug has been licensed to treat UK patients with advanced breast cancer that has begun to spread. However, patients may find problems getting Avastin, as the NHS drugs watchdogs have yet to consider whether to sanction its use. The drug is designed to be used in tandem with another chemotherapy agent, paclitaxel. Avastin, which works by starving cancer cells of a blood supply, has previously been used to treat bowel cancer. All breast cancer treatments will have risks and benefits so it is vital women have all the information they need to make informed decisions about their treatment options However, the drug was rejected for NHS use in England and Wales for that purpose last year. The National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence (NICE) ruled that it was not cost-effective. In trials, breast cancer patients who took Avastin and paclitaxel went an average of 13 months without their cancer growing, compared with an average of 6.7 months for patients who took paclitaxel alone. Professor David Miles, a consultant medical oncologist at the Mount Vernon Cancer Centre, Middlesex, said: "This provides some hope for the 13,000 patients a year that are told the devastating news they have metastatic breast cancer which cannot be cured with surgery. "It is an important step forward to have discovered another targeted treatment which can inhibit the growth of breast cancer and as a result increase significantly the time that patients' breast cancer is controlled." Dr Emma Pennery, a nurse consultant at the charity Breast Cancer Care, said women with secondary breast cancer would welcome any treatment that could potentially slow down the progression of their disease. "This announcement means that there is now another treatment option available, adding to the growing range of targeted drugs for breast cancer." Dr Pennery called on the National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence (NICE) and the Scottish Medicines Consortium to appraise the drug as soon as possible. Dr Sarah Rawlings, of the charity Breakthrough Breast Cancer, said: "The development of targeted therapies like this is an important step forward in cancer treatment. "Avastin is an additional treatment option that will be welcomed by women with metastatic breast cancer, although it's important to remember it might not be suitable for everyone. "All breast cancer treatments will have risks and benefits so it is vital women have all the information they need to make informed decisions about their treatment options. "Any woman concerned should discuss this with her doctor." E-mail this to a friend Breast cancer drug cocktail hope 23 Mar 06 | Health US approves new cancer drug 27 Feb 04 | Health 30 Jan 04 | Medical notes National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Experts back folic acid in flour Aspirin 'prevents bowel cancer' Drinking at home 'cuts bingeing' MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/hi/english/static/in_depth/health/2000/heart_disease/default.stm	BBC News | Health | Heart Disease The UK has one of the highest rates of death from heart disease in the world - one British adult dies from the disease every three minutes - and stroke is the country's third biggest killer, claiming 70,000 lives each year. Heart attacks occur when blood flow is blocked, often by a blood clot, while strokes are caused either by blocked or burst blood vessels in the brain. A range of other conditions, including heart failure, when blood is not pumped properly around the body, and congenital heart defects can also cause long term problems, and even death, for sufferers. - The blood returns from the lungs to the upper left chamber of the heart where it is again briefly stored until the atrium fills, before flowing on to the left ventricle. - “Impure” or “blue” blood returning from the atrium enters the heart here, where it is held until the atrium - or chamber - fills up. - This is the most powerful chamber of the heart. It pumps the newly oxygenated blood to the rest of the body through the aorta, or main artery. - This powerful pump propels blood into the pulmonary artery, the tube which carries blood to the lungs, where carbon dioxide in the blood is removed and oxygen added.
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/help/rss/4498287.stm	BBC NEWS | Help | RSS | BBC RSS Feed: Standard Licence Terms Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it BBC RSS Feed: Standard Licence Terms By downloading a BBC RSS Feed ( "BBC Feed") from the British Broadcasting Corporation ("BBC") you agree to be bound by the terms set out below (the "Standard Licence Terms"). These Standard Licence Terms may be updated by the BBC from time to time. Please review these Standard Licence Terms each time you download a BBC Feed. Your download and/or use of a BBC Feed indicates your agreement to these Standard Licence Terms. 1.1 Subject to the terms of this Agreement the BBC grants you a non-transferrable, non-sublicensable, royalty free non-exclusive licence to display on your website ("Site") the headlines, active links or other source identifiers and other information or materials that you specifically select to receive from the BBC via the BBC Feed ("BBC Content"). 1.2 All title, ownership rights and intellectual property rights in and to the BBC Feed shall remain the property of the BBC. 1.3 Nothing in these Standard Licence Terms grants you any right to use the BBC trade mark on your Site or elsewhere. 2. Use of BBC Content 2.1 You may not use the Feed or display any BBC Content on any Site that is a web site that is excluded by the BBC (scroll down for the list of Excluded Websites as may be amended by the BBC from time to time). 2.2 YOU MUST ENSURE THAT ALL BBC CONTENT ON YOUR SITE HAS AN ACCREDITATION TO THE BBC IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE BBC ACCREDITATION GUIDELINES FROM TIME TO TIME (SCROLL DOWN FOR THE BBC ACCREDITATION GUIDELINES AS MAY BE AMENDED BY THE BBC FROM TIME TO TIME). 2.3 YOU MAY NOT DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY CHARGE USERS SPECIFICALLY FOR ACCESSING BBC CONTENT OR OTHERWISE COMMERCIALISE SUCH CONTENT, NOR ATTEMPT TO RE-SELL THE BBC CONTENT IN ANY WAY. 2.4 Where possible you must create a functional link back to the BBC News story(ies) summarised by the BBC Content . If you are displaying the BBC Feed where a functional link back to the BBC is not possible, you must display on-screen the URL from which the BBC Content can be obtained (scroll down to the accreditation section below.) You may not directly or indirectly change, edit, add to or produce summaries of the BBC Content or any content on the BBC website nor place any full-story BBC content in an HTML frame-set. 2.5 You may not directly or indirectly suggest any endorsement or approval by the BBC of your Site or any non-BBC entity, product or content or any views expressed within your site or service. 2.6 You acknowledge that the BBC has absolute editorial control over all BBC Content and you accept that the BBC is editorially independent and that the editorial integrity of the BBC Content is the sole responsibility of the BBC. 2.7 Should you receive any enquiries which relate to the BBC or the BBC Content you should promptly refer such enquiries to www.bbc.co.uk/info/contactus. 3. Warranties & Liability 3.1 You warrant to the BBC that: (i) you have fully complied with, and shall continue to comply fully with, all applicable laws and regulations; (ii) the Site shall contain no material which is libellous, defamatory, pornographic, obscene or which brings the BBC into disrepute, or which is in breach of any third party intellectual property rights; and (iii) users of the Site shall be required to comply with terms that are equivalent to the Standard Licence Terms in relation to their use of BBC Content. 3.2 The BBC Feed is made available by the BBC on an "as is" and "as available" basis and the BBC gives no warranty of any kind in relation to the BBC Feed, the BBC Content, or any content on the BBC website. The BBC disclaims all implied warranties, including but not limited to the implied warranties of satisfactory quality, fitness for a particular purpose, non-infringement, compatibility, and accuracy regarding the BBC Content, the BBC Feed and the BBC website and any content thereon. 3.3 TO THE MAXIMUM EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW THE BBC EXCLUDES ALL LIABILITY TO YOU FOR ANY LOSS OR DAMAGE HOWSOEVER ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THIS AGREEMENT, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO ANY LIABILITY ARISING IN RELATION TO THE BBC FEED, THE BBC CONTENT OR ANY CONTENT ON THE BBC WEBSITE, ANY VIRUS OR OTHER CONTAMINATION OR ANY UNAVAILABILITY OF BBC CONTENT. 3.4 Each provision of this Clause 3 operates separately in itself and survives independently of the others. 4.1 You hereby agree to indemnify, hold harmless and defend the BBC in respect of all damages, costs and expenses, including reasonable legal fees and litigation expenses, arising out of or as a result of any breach of the Standard Licence Terms or otherwise in connection with your use of the BBC Feed (including the BBC Content). 5.1 You may terminate this Agreement and the licence granted herein at any time by destroying or removing all copies of the BBC Feed (including the BBC Content) from your Site, all hard drives, networks and other storage media. 5.2 The BBC may restrict, suspend or terminate the BBC Feed, this Agreement, the licence granted herein or your access to the BBC Feed at any time without liability. You agree to destroy all copies of the BBC Feed (including the BBC Content) upon receiving notice of termination from the BBC. 5.3 Clauses 3, 4 and 6 shall survive termination of this Agreement. 6.1 Neither party may assign, charge, sublicense or otherwise deal with its rights or obligations in this Agreement in whole or in part to any third party. 6.2 This Agreement supersedes all prior agreements, arrangements and understandings between the parties concerning its subject matter. Each of the parties acknowledges that it has not relied on any statement made by the other in the course of entering into this Agreement. 6.3 Any failure or delay by either party in exercising its rights under any provisions of this Agreement shall not be construed as a waiver of those rights at any time now or in the future. 6.4 This Agreement shall be governed by, construed and take effect in accordance with English law and the English courts shall have exclusive jurisdiction to settle any claim or dispute which may arise out of or in connection with this Agreement. The BBC's RSS feeds and any BBC content contained in the BBC RSS feeds may only be displayed on websites that do not fall into any one or more of the categories listed below. A site will be deemed to fall within one of the following categories where there is a material and prominent section of the Site that falls within such category. 1. Sites that incite hatred whether based on race, religion, gender, sexuality or otherwise, or promote encourage or facilitate anti-social behaviour 2. Sites that promote, encourage or facilitate violence 3. Sites that promote, encourage or facilitate terrorism or other activities that risk UK national security 4. Sites that discriminate against any specific social group or otherwise exploit vulnerable sections of society 5. Sites that promote, facilitate or encourage illegal activity 6. Sites which are misleading, pornographic, defamatory, or that contain illegal, or otherwise actionable content under UK law 7. Sites which infringe individual privacy (based on the parameters laid down in the "Privacy" chapter of the BBC's Any BBC RSS feed or BBC content on your site must incorporate an attribution (credit) to the BBC in one of the following forms: "From BBC News / BBC Sport / bbc.co.uk" (delete as applicable), or "This content / article is from BBC News / BBC Sport/ the BBC News website / the BBC Sport website / bbc.co.uk" (delete as applicable) If you are displaying a BBC RSS feed in a context where a functional link back to the article on the BBC's website is not possible then you use the following attribution (credit) From bbc.co.uk/news or bbc.co.uk/sport (delete as applicable) If used as part of the BBC BackStage project, then the following wording needs to be added: You may not use any BBC logo or other BBC trade mark without signing a BBC trade mark licence agreement. MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/health/6645651.stm	BBC NEWS | Health | Drinking at home 'cuts bingeing' Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 10:14 GMT 11:14 UK E-mail this to a friend Drinking at home 'cuts bingeing' Teenage drinking is a major public health problem Teenagers who drink alcohol with their parents in moderation are less likely to binge drink, research suggests. The study also said that parents who do not want their children to drink behind their backs should limit their pocket money to less than £10 a week. The study, led by Liverpool John Moores University, was based on responses from more than 10,000 15 and 16-year-olds. Almost 90% admitted to drinking alcohol, of which 38% binged, 24% drank frequently and 50% drank in public. Drinking in the home environment, if it is done properly, can teach young people respect for alcohol Liverpool John Moores University The study also found a third of respondents bought their own alcohol, and those that did were six times more likely to drink in public, and twice as likely to binge than those who had alcohol bought for them. Last month the charity Alcohol Concern called for parents who give alcohol to children aged under 15 to be prosecuted following figures suggesting a large increase in alcohol consumption by 11 to 13-year-olds. But the latest study, published in the journal Substance Abuse Treatment, Prevention, and Policy, questions this approach. Lead researcher Dr Mark Bellis said figures suggested that 75% of 14-year-olds had tried alcohol. "The question is: are they learning to drink from their parents in a socially responsible environment, or are they learning behind some bushes in the park, or in a bar where they should not be in the first place? "The chances are if they are in the latter position they are learning to binge drink, they are hiding their drinking, they can't talk to their parents about it. "Drinking in the home environment, if it is done properly, can teach young people respect for alcohol, and how to consume in moderation." Dr Bellis said criminalising a parent for allowing a child to drink was probably not going to help any family. Frank Soodeen, campaigns officer for Alcohol Concern, said the charity had taken its lead from the law, which prohibits under-15s from being served alcohol in public places. He agreed that it was appropriate for parents to allow drinking in the home for older teenagers - but reiterated the charity's view that younger teenagers should not be encouraged to drink. He said: "We agree that parents have a real role to play in raising socially responsible drinkers." The researchers say that increasing the cost of alcohol, and closing down retailers who sell to underage drinkers could help tackle the problem. E-mail this to a friend Call to stop children's drinking 27 Apr 07 | UK Drink campaign 'has wrong focus' 17 Mar 07 | UK Shows 'encourage teen drinking' 10 Mar 07 | Health Call to raise drinking age to 21 15 Apr 07 | Health Liverpool John Moores University Substance Abuse Treatment, Prevention, and Policy The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Experts back folic acid in flour Aspirin 'prevents bowel cancer' Drinking at home 'cuts bingeing' MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/health/6643547.stm	BBC NEWS | Health | Aspirin 'prevents bowel cancer' Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Thursday, 10 May 2007, 23:01 GMT 00:01 UK E-mail this to a friend Aspirin 'prevents bowel cancer' Aspirin could benefit high-risk groups, the study says Taking aspirin each day can prevent bowel cancer developing, a study says. Oxford University researchers said taking a dose of 300mg a day for five years offered the protection. Long-term aspirin use is generally not backed because of the risk of stomach problems, but the team said it could benefit those at high-risk of cancer. Cancer campaigners welcomed the study - published in the Lancet - which examined data from previous research covering more than 7,500 people. These findings are not an indication that the general population should rush out and take what is a high dosage of aspirin on a daily basis. Each year, around 35,000 men and women in the UK are diagnosed with bowel cancer, and more than 16,000 die from the disease. The researchers looked at the results from two large-scale UK trials carried out in the late 1970s and early 1980s covering over 7,500 people which had given some people 300, 500 or 1,200mg per day doses of aspirin or a dummy pill for five to seven years. The people in the study were then followed for up to 20 years, and deaths from bowel cancer were logged. The team say it takes at least 10 years to see an effect, because that is how long it takes for a pre-cancerous growths to develop into cancer. Other studies have examined aspirin's benefits. However, this was the first where people were allocated to take different doses of the drug, or the fake version, rather than looking back at the aspirin use of bowel cancer patients and comparing them with healthy people. High risk group 'benefit' The researchers found that taking 300mg of aspirin - the equivalent of one pill - a day for five years reduced the incidence of bowel cancer by 74% in the subsequent 10 to 15 years. An accompanying review of 30 observational studies suggested taking medium-to-high doses of aspirin for 10 years or more reduced the risk of developing the disease by 50%-70%. The protective effect of aspirin appeared to be consistent regardless of age, sex, race or country of origin. It was also seen in individuals who had a close family relative with bowel cancer, which normally raises the lifetime risk two to four times. Professor Peter Rothwell, who led the research, said: "What we are saying is that for a subgroup of people at high risk of bowel cancer, they probably aren't going to be dramatically harmed by taking aspirin. "They may have some risk of bleeding in the stomach, but they will see potentially significant benefits in the reduction of their colon cancer risk. "In that situation, I think taking aspirin daily would be worthwhile." Dr Andrew Chan, from Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston, writing in the Lancet, said the findings were "convincing evidence" that aspirin can reduce the incidence of bowel cancer. But he added: "With the concerns about the potential risks of long-term aspirin use and the availability of alternative prevention strategies - such as screening - these findings are not sufficient to warrant a recommendation for the general population to use aspirin for cancer prevention." Rob Glynne-Jones, chief medical advisor to the charity Bowel Cancer UK, said: "This is very interesting and it certainly confirms what we already know and believe about the links between aspirin, polyps and the development of bowel cancer. "However, these findings are not an indication that the general population should rush out and take what is a high dosage of aspirin on a daily basis. "Aspirin at this dose over a prolonged period of time could lead to potentially serious side effects in a few people." E-mail this to a friend VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS The study's findings about aspirin and bowel cancer Aspirin 'cuts bowel cancer risk' 23 Aug 05 | Health Aspirin cuts breast cancer risk 26 May 04 | Health Aspirin: A century of good news 26 Jun 02 | Health The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Experts back folic acid in flour Aspirin 'prevents bowel cancer' Drinking at home 'cuts bingeing' MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/england/north_yorkshire/6645923.stm	BBC NEWS | England | North Yorkshire | Scientists create 'plastic' blood Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 09:08 GMT 10:08 UK E-mail this to a friend Scientists create 'plastic' blood The researchers said the artificial blood was easier to store Scientists have developed an artificial plastic blood which could act as a substitute in emergencies. Researchers at Sheffield University said their creation could be a huge advantage in war zones. They say that the artificial blood is light to carry, does not need to be kept cool and can be kept for longer. The new blood is made up of plastic molecules that have an iron atom at their core, like haemoglobin, that can carry oxygen through the body. The scientists said the artificial blood could be cheap to produce and they were looking for extra funding to develop a final prototype that would be suitable for biological testing. Dr Lance Twyman, of the university's Department of Chemistry, said: "We are very excited about the potential for this product and about the fact that this could save lives. "Many people die from superficial wounds when they are trapped in an accident or are injured on the battlefield and can't get blood before they get to hospital. "This product can be stored a lot more easily than blood, meaning large quantities could be carried easily by ambulances and the armed forces." A sample of the artificial blood prototype will be on display at the Science Museum in London from 22 May as part of an exhibition about the history of plastics. E-mail this to a friend Sport, travel, leisure and more from the BBC website for South Yorkshire The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites TOP NORTH YORKSHIRE STORIES Policeman jailed over child sex Battlefield homes get green light Allotment produce declared safe MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/scotland/6641115.stm	BBC NEWS | Scotland | Warning as tick diseases on rise Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Thursday, 10 May 2007, 08:45 GMT 09:45 UK E-mail this to a friend Warning as tick diseases on rise Diseases spread by ticks have risen over the past few years The public has been warned to take extra precautions against ticks as the warm weather heralds a peak in numbers of the blood-sucking parasites. It follows a huge rise in cases of Lyme Disease in Scotland and encephalitis amongst travellers to mainland Europe, spread by ticks. Both infections are severely debilitating and can be fatal. A decade ago there were just 10 cases of Lyme Disease in Scotland, but last year that figure had risen to 177. In mainland Europe, tick-borne encephalitis is also on the rise and is now endemic in 27 countries. Make sure you know about bite prevention, how to look out for the early symptoms and remember to seek advice The advice to anyone heading into the countryside is to wear insect repellent and long trousers if possible and to check themselves thoroughly afterwards. Ticks should be removed by gripping them close to the skin with tweezers and pulling backwards without jerking or twisting. They are common in woodland, heath land and in particular areas in Scotland where deer graze. More recently they have also been found in urban parks. A spokesman for the Tick Alert campaign said: "Ticks are second only to mosquitoes for carrying disease to humans. "Travellers and holidaymakers visiting rural areas are at risk from tick bites, but also when spending time in public spaces including beer gardens, picnic spots and parks and gardens. "Make sure you know about bite prevention, how to look out for the early symptoms and remember to seek advice well before your travel date." Wear trousers tucked into socks Check warm folds of the skin Carefully remove with tweezers Do not try to drown in Vaseline Be aware of favoured habitats Lyme disease varies widely but can include a rash and flu-like symptoms in its initial stage, followed by the possibility of musculoskeletal, arthritic, neurological, psychiatric and cardiac problems. Most cases of Lyme disease can be cured with antibiotics, especially if treatment is begun early in the course of illness. Katrina Anderson, from Edinburgh, became ill after she was bitten by a tick in 1991. She was misdiagnosed by her GP who blamed ME for her chronic fatigue and it took another two years before she was told by a specialist that she had contracted Lyme disease. Ms Anderson said: "At the time I was actually very ill. I became very flu-like with muscle pains, constant headaches. "It was like having a virus. It's like a hidden illness. You don't actually see what the person is suffering from. "It can affect all aspects of your nervous system." E-mail this to a friend VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS A number of precautions can be taken against ticks Call to help fight tick problem 13 Mar 06 | Scotland Paralysed by a tick bite 25 Nov 05 | Norfolk Lyme Disease found on hill range 30 Aug 05 | Somerset Health - Lyme disease Borreliosis and Associated Diseases Awareness UK The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites City vigil for missing Madeleine Osprey makes up with mate SNP and Greens sign working deal MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/health/6645651.stm	BBC NEWS | Health | Drinking at home 'cuts bingeing' Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 10:14 GMT 11:14 UK E-mail this to a friend Drinking at home 'cuts bingeing' Teenage drinking is a major public health problem Teenagers who drink alcohol with their parents in moderation are less likely to binge drink, research suggests. The study also said that parents who do not want their children to drink behind their backs should limit their pocket money to less than £10 a week. The study, led by Liverpool John Moores University, was based on responses from more than 10,000 15 and 16-year-olds. Almost 90% admitted to drinking alcohol, of which 38% binged, 24% drank frequently and 50% drank in public. Drinking in the home environment, if it is done properly, can teach young people respect for alcohol Liverpool John Moores University The study also found a third of respondents bought their own alcohol, and those that did were six times more likely to drink in public, and twice as likely to binge than those who had alcohol bought for them. Last month the charity Alcohol Concern called for parents who give alcohol to children aged under 15 to be prosecuted following figures suggesting a large increase in alcohol consumption by 11 to 13-year-olds. But the latest study, published in the journal Substance Abuse Treatment, Prevention, and Policy, questions this approach. Lead researcher Dr Mark Bellis said figures suggested that 75% of 14-year-olds had tried alcohol. "The question is: are they learning to drink from their parents in a socially responsible environment, or are they learning behind some bushes in the park, or in a bar where they should not be in the first place? "The chances are if they are in the latter position they are learning to binge drink, they are hiding their drinking, they can't talk to their parents about it. "Drinking in the home environment, if it is done properly, can teach young people respect for alcohol, and how to consume in moderation." Dr Bellis said criminalising a parent for allowing a child to drink was probably not going to help any family. Frank Soodeen, campaigns officer for Alcohol Concern, said the charity had taken its lead from the law, which prohibits under-15s from being served alcohol in public places. He agreed that it was appropriate for parents to allow drinking in the home for older teenagers - but reiterated the charity's view that younger teenagers should not be encouraged to drink. He said: "We agree that parents have a real role to play in raising socially responsible drinkers." The researchers say that increasing the cost of alcohol, and closing down retailers who sell to underage drinkers could help tackle the problem. E-mail this to a friend Call to stop children's drinking 27 Apr 07 | UK Drink campaign 'has wrong focus' 17 Mar 07 | UK Shows 'encourage teen drinking' 10 Mar 07 | Health Call to raise drinking age to 21 15 Apr 07 | Health Liverpool John Moores University Substance Abuse Treatment, Prevention, and Policy The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Experts back folic acid in flour Aspirin 'prevents bowel cancer' Drinking at home 'cuts bingeing' MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/health/6642749.stm	BBC NEWS | Health | Drugs adviser raises charity fear Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Thursday, 10 May 2007, 23:01 GMT 00:01 UK E-mail this to a friend Drugs adviser raises charity fear The drugs are reserved for those with moderate Alzheimer's Concerns have been raised about the links between pharmaceutical firms and charity patient groups by the body that advises the NHS on which drugs to use. Sir Michael Rawlins, chairman of the National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence, said charities had to be wary of pharmaceutical donations. And he urged charities to question the cost of drugs more. But patient groups said there were strict guidelines covering such donations by the drugs industry. I have yet ever to hear a patient organisation criticise a price of the drug Sir Michael Rawlins, of NICE Sir Michael said: "Patient organisations need to think very carefully about why pharmaceutical companies are giving them money and they have to make sure they are not beholden to a pharmaceutical company. "I have yet ever to hear a patient organisation criticise a price of the drug. "When they do that they will come into their own." Sir Michael refused to name individual groups The subject of drug firm donations to patients groups and charities is a sensitive issue. Several groups, although not all, accept donations from drug firms. Most of those that do have codes of conduct setting out what those donations can and cannot be used for - most are restricted to funding education purposes than for campaigning. The Alzheimer's Society is involved in legal action along with Eisai and Pfizer against NICE over the decision to restrict the use of Alzheimer's treatments. The group has accepted money from both companies. But a spokeswoman pointed out that drug firm donations account for less than 1% of its income. She said the society's challenge was being done independently of the drug firms and added donations were never used to fund campaign activity. Breast Cancer Care, which pushed for NICE to approve the so-called breast cancer wonder-drug Herceptin, has received money from its maker Roche. A spokeswoman said any drug industry donations were always used for "impartial patient information". She added it was important there was a dialogue between patient groups and drug companies and she agreed cost was something that needed to be debated. "The cost of drug is clearly becoming a major factor in the potential for cancer treatment and must be addressed." And the Association of the British Pharmaceutical Industry denied there was anything wrong with such donations. "Patient groups and companies have a shared interest. When they work together it is in the patients' interests, usually to do with education programmes or disease awareness. "Any involvement has to be declared by the company so it is quite transparent." E-mail this to a friend Drugs watchdog faces legal review 26 Mar 07 | Health Alzheimer's drugs appeal refused 11 Oct 06 | Health Drug 'treats severe Alzheimer's' 23 Mar 06 | Health 'The drug improved both our lives' 10 Oct 06 | Health The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Experts back folic acid in flour Aspirin 'prevents bowel cancer' Drinking at home 'cuts bingeing' MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/uk/6646503.stm	BBC NEWS | UK | Uni may ban exercise ball chairs Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 13:07 GMT 14:07 UK E-mail this to a friend Uni may ban exercise ball chairs The balls are mostly used for exercise but can be used as chairs. University officials are considering whether they should ban physiotherapy lecturers from using large exercise balls as chairs. Physiotherapists at the University of Bath say sitting on the balls while working at a desk encourages good posture and tones core muscles. Their professional body agrees that they are beneficial and carry no risk. But health and safety officials are concerned that the giant inflatables may be dangerous. A spokesman for the university said: "The university's health and safety team are looking into whether the balls meet the university's guidelines on conventional chairs to see if the trial can be allowed to become a permanent situation. We expect the result of this shortly." The balls are often used in gyms and are also known as Swiss balls because they were first used in Switzerland in the 1960s by therapists working with children with cerebral palsy. Physiotherapist Sonya Crowe from the university's Department for Health started a trend when she began using an exercise ball instead of a chair. Ms Crowe, who is the sports physiotherapist for the British beach volleyball team, said: "The balls are firm with a bit of give, so it is not difficult to balance on top of them, but the constant small movements you make whilst sitting at a desk are perfect for strengthening your core muscles. "You also have to sit upright, so they are perfect for improving posture. "In particular, people who suffer from back ache and shoulder pain can really benefit from sitting on an exercise ball instead of a regular office chair." She added: "I have never heard of anyone falling off one of the balls - and the health and safety benefits far outweigh any risks there may be." Ms Crowe's colleague Emily Richards said: "You couldn't miss the fact that Sonya was sat on a big squashy ball instead of an office chair. "A few of us tried it out and could see the benefit immediately. We put in a bulk order and now at least a dozen people around the university have got them." She added: "It seems to have started a real craze, and my husband has now got one at his work to help his bad back." The Chartered Society of Physiotherapy said there was no risk if the balls were used properly. One sports website warns that jewellery and belt buckles could burst the ball but says that most are made to deflate slowly rather than explode. The Health and Safety Executive said it was up to individual employers to decide how to meet their legal obligation to protect their staff. E-mail this to a friend The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Madeleine parents 'won't give up' 11 Menezes police face no action MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/scotland/6641115.stm	BBC NEWS | Scotland | Warning as tick diseases on rise Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Thursday, 10 May 2007, 08:45 GMT 09:45 UK E-mail this to a friend Warning as tick diseases on rise Diseases spread by ticks have risen over the past few years The public has been warned to take extra precautions against ticks as the warm weather heralds a peak in numbers of the blood-sucking parasites. It follows a huge rise in cases of Lyme Disease in Scotland and encephalitis amongst travellers to mainland Europe, spread by ticks. Both infections are severely debilitating and can be fatal. A decade ago there were just 10 cases of Lyme Disease in Scotland, but last year that figure had risen to 177. In mainland Europe, tick-borne encephalitis is also on the rise and is now endemic in 27 countries. Make sure you know about bite prevention, how to look out for the early symptoms and remember to seek advice The advice to anyone heading into the countryside is to wear insect repellent and long trousers if possible and to check themselves thoroughly afterwards. Ticks should be removed by gripping them close to the skin with tweezers and pulling backwards without jerking or twisting. They are common in woodland, heath land and in particular areas in Scotland where deer graze. More recently they have also been found in urban parks. A spokesman for the Tick Alert campaign said: "Ticks are second only to mosquitoes for carrying disease to humans. "Travellers and holidaymakers visiting rural areas are at risk from tick bites, but also when spending time in public spaces including beer gardens, picnic spots and parks and gardens. "Make sure you know about bite prevention, how to look out for the early symptoms and remember to seek advice well before your travel date." Wear trousers tucked into socks Check warm folds of the skin Carefully remove with tweezers Do not try to drown in Vaseline Be aware of favoured habitats Lyme disease varies widely but can include a rash and flu-like symptoms in its initial stage, followed by the possibility of musculoskeletal, arthritic, neurological, psychiatric and cardiac problems. Most cases of Lyme disease can be cured with antibiotics, especially if treatment is begun early in the course of illness. Katrina Anderson, from Edinburgh, became ill after she was bitten by a tick in 1991. She was misdiagnosed by her GP who blamed ME for her chronic fatigue and it took another two years before she was told by a specialist that she had contracted Lyme disease. Ms Anderson said: "At the time I was actually very ill. I became very flu-like with muscle pains, constant headaches. "It was like having a virus. It's like a hidden illness. You don't actually see what the person is suffering from. "It can affect all aspects of your nervous system." E-mail this to a friend VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS A number of precautions can be taken against ticks Call to help fight tick problem 13 Mar 06 | Scotland Paralysed by a tick bite 25 Nov 05 | Norfolk Lyme Disease found on hill range 30 Aug 05 | Somerset Health - Lyme disease Borreliosis and Associated Diseases Awareness UK The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites City vigil for missing Madeleine Osprey makes up with mate SNP and Greens sign working deal MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/england/beds/bucks/herts/6647995.stm	BBC NEWS | England | Beds/Bucks/Herts | Screening as pupils contract TB Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 16:35 GMT 17:35 UK E-mail this to a friend Screening as pupils contract TB Early diagnosis is key to treating TB Pupils and teachers at a junior school are being screened for TB after four pupils tested positive for the disease. A letter was sent to parents of pupils at Southfields Junior School, in Luton, Beds, offering the tests after a pupil displayed symptoms of tuberculosis. Three of his classmates were confirmed to also be in the early stages of the disease, which the Health Protection Agency said is not contracted easily. Luton has three times as many incidents of TB than the national average. The bacteria, which commonly affects the lungs, is on the increase nationally, the Health Protection Agency has said. The affected pupils are being treated with antibiotics and the school has offered the screening as a precaution. E-mail this to a friend BBC Beds Bucks and Herts Travel, leisure, sport, message boards and much more Tuberculosis testing at hospital 11 May 07 | North East/N Isles Tuberculosis cases 'are rising' 22 Mar 07 | Health The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Screening as pupils contract TB Bronson gets payout from prison Cyclist killed in van collision MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/uk/6646503.stm	BBC NEWS | UK | Uni may ban exercise ball chairs Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 13:07 GMT 14:07 UK E-mail this to a friend Uni may ban exercise ball chairs The balls are mostly used for exercise but can be used as chairs. University officials are considering whether they should ban physiotherapy lecturers from using large exercise balls as chairs. Physiotherapists at the University of Bath say sitting on the balls while working at a desk encourages good posture and tones core muscles. Their professional body agrees that they are beneficial and carry no risk. But health and safety officials are concerned that the giant inflatables may be dangerous. A spokesman for the university said: "The university's health and safety team are looking into whether the balls meet the university's guidelines on conventional chairs to see if the trial can be allowed to become a permanent situation. We expect the result of this shortly." The balls are often used in gyms and are also known as Swiss balls because they were first used in Switzerland in the 1960s by therapists working with children with cerebral palsy. Physiotherapist Sonya Crowe from the university's Department for Health started a trend when she began using an exercise ball instead of a chair. Ms Crowe, who is the sports physiotherapist for the British beach volleyball team, said: "The balls are firm with a bit of give, so it is not difficult to balance on top of them, but the constant small movements you make whilst sitting at a desk are perfect for strengthening your core muscles. "You also have to sit upright, so they are perfect for improving posture. "In particular, people who suffer from back ache and shoulder pain can really benefit from sitting on an exercise ball instead of a regular office chair." She added: "I have never heard of anyone falling off one of the balls - and the health and safety benefits far outweigh any risks there may be." Ms Crowe's colleague Emily Richards said: "You couldn't miss the fact that Sonya was sat on a big squashy ball instead of an office chair. "A few of us tried it out and could see the benefit immediately. We put in a bulk order and now at least a dozen people around the university have got them." She added: "It seems to have started a real craze, and my husband has now got one at his work to help his bad back." The Chartered Society of Physiotherapy said there was no risk if the balls were used properly. One sports website warns that jewellery and belt buckles could burst the ball but says that most are made to deflate slowly rather than explode. The Health and Safety Executive said it was up to individual employers to decide how to meet their legal obligation to protect their staff. E-mail this to a friend The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Madeleine parents 'won't give up' 11 Menezes police face no action MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/health/6648059.stm	BBC NEWS | Health | Experts back folic acid in flour Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 17:03 GMT 18:03 UK E-mail this to a friend Experts back folic acid in flour Under the plan, all bread would be made with folic acid-fortified flour The UK's official food watchdog is backing the mandatory fortification of flour with folic acid to reduce birth defects such as spina bifida. The proposal will go before the board of the Food Standards Agency next week for ratification. If passed, ministers will then decide whether to press ahead. Scientific research shows that folic acid significantly cuts the risk of neural tube defects, which affect up to 900 pregnancies a year in the UK. However, there is concern that adding the vitamin to flour could harm some elderly patients, as it could mask a deficiency in the B12 vitamin. Up to 10% of those aged 65 and older have borderline B12 levels and could tip into deficiency. In extreme cases, this can cause irreversible damage to the nervous system. The recommendation to the FSA board suggests that products containing folic acid at nutritionally significant levels should be clearly labelled. It also argues that mandatory fortification should be accompanied by new controls on the voluntary addition of folic acid to other products, such as breakfast cereals and low-fat spreads, and on the use of folic acid supplements. A system for monitoring the health impact of fortification would also be needed. Wholemeal flour would be exempt from fortification in order to give consumers more choice. The FSA already advises women to eat extra folic acid when trying to get pregnant. However, research suggests that only half of such women adhere to this advice. Also, up to half of pregnancies are unplanned, meaning women may miss the opportunity. Each year between 500 and 600 babies in the UK are reported to have neural tube defects. It is thought many of the other affected pregnancies are terminated. Mandatory fortification has already been introduced in the USA, Canada and Chile, where it cut NTD rates by between 27% and 50%. A panel of UK experts, the Scientific Advisory Committee on Nutrition (SACN), last year backed mandatory fortification of flour. SACN found no evidence that vitamin B12 deficiency was masked in older people, provided folic acid doses were 1mg a day or less. An FSA consultation on the issue drew 202 responses from industry, consumer groups and individuals. The baking industry raised "practical concerns" about the fortification of bread. It said bread-making flour couldn't easily be separated from other flours in mills. E-mail this to a friend Folic acid 'should be in flour' 12 Dec 06 | Health Folic acid boosts IVF twin births 05 May 06 | Health Folic acid 'cuts dementia risk' 15 Aug 05 | Health Push to add folic acid to bread 05 Apr 06 | Health Association for Spina Bifida and Hydrocephalus Scientific Advisory Committee of Nutrition The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Experts back folic acid in flour Aspirin 'prevents bowel cancer' Drinking at home 'cuts bingeing' MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/health/3444635.stm	BBC NEWS | Health | Cancer: The facts Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 30 January 2004, 11:57 GMT E-mail this to a friend One in three of us will be diagnosed with cancer during our life. The disease tends to affect older people - but can strike at any time. Excluding certain skin cancers, there were more than 270,000 new cases of the disease in 2001 - and the rate is increasing by about 1% a year. Some cancer, such as breast, are becoming more common, while new cases of lung cancer fall away due to the drop in the number of smokers. However, while the overall number of new cancers is not falling, the good news is that successful treatment rates for many of the most common types are improving rapidly. BBC News Online has produced, in conjunction with Cancer Research UK, a guide to some of the most common forms of cancer and the treatments used to tackle them. To learn more about different types of cancer, and to read the experiences of patients, click on the links to the right. E-mail this to a friend Cancer - the facts Cervical and Uterine Cancers National Cancer Research Institute The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Experts back folic acid in flour Aspirin 'prevents bowel cancer' Drinking at home 'cuts bingeing' Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://search.yahoo.com/mrss/	Media RSS Module - RSS 2.0 Module "Media RSS" Specification Version 1.1.1 An RSS module that supplements the 02/21/2005 - Major consolidation of all requested changes: [1.0.0] Added additional type of element to distinguish content of an adult nature. Modified to have a attribute for better module consistency. to allow specifying categorization scheme. for a human readable label. element for media binary hashing. to distinguish formatting of text. Improved descriptions of various elements and attributes. 08/22/2005 - Improved global syndication capabilities: [1.1.0] attributes to media:text and media:content. to give more flexibility to represent things other than people or companies. to explicitly determine what type of media is expressed. Added a "Best Practices" section to encourage use of the Feed History module, and Dublin Core's expiration capability. Add time code information to 10/22/2005 - Minor improvements: [1.1.1] Added capability for elements to appear at the to allow explicit global relationships to be expressed. The namespace for Media RSS is defined to be: "Media RSS" is a new RSS module that supplements the enclosure capabilities of RSS 2.0. RSS enclosures are already being used to syndicate audio files and images. Media RSS extends enclosures to handle other media types, such as short films or TV, as well as provide additional metadata with the media. Media RSS enables content publishers and bloggers to syndicate multimedia content such as TV and video clips, movies, images, and audio. is a sub-element of . It allows grouping of elements that are effectively the same content, yet different representations. For instance: the same song recorded in both the WAV and MP3 format. It's an optional element that must only be used for this purpose. is a sub-element of either . Media objects that are not the same content should not be included in the same element. The sequence of these items implies the order of presentation. While many of the attributes appear to be audio/video specific, this element can be used to publish any type of media. It contains 14 attributes, most of which are optional. should specify the direct url to the media object. If not included, a element must be specified. is the number of bytes of the media object. It is an optional attribute. is the standard MIME type of the object. It is an optional attribute. is the type of object (image | audio | video | document | executable). While this attribute can at times seem redundant if is supplied, it is included because it simplifies decision making on the reader side, as well as flushes out any ambiguities between MIME type and object type. It is an optional attribute. determines if this is the default object that should be used for the . There should only be one default object per . It is an optional attribute. determines if the object is a sample or the full version of the object, or even if it is a continuous stream (sample | full | nonstop). Default value is 'full'. It is an optional attribute. is the kilobits per second rate of media. It is an optional attribute. is the number of frames per second for the media object. It is an optional attribute. is the number of samples per second taken to create the media object. It is expressed in thousands of samples per second (kHz). It is an optional attribute. is number of audio channels in the media object. It is an optional attribute. is the number of seconds the media object plays. It is an optional attribute. is the height of the media object. It is an optional attribute. is the width of the media object. It is an optional attribute. is the primary language encapsulated in the media object. Language codes possible are detailed in RFC 3066. This attribute is used similar to the attribute detailed in the XML 1.0 Specification (Third Edition). It is an optional attribute. These optional attributes, along with the optional elements below, contain the primary metadata entries needed to index and organize media content. Additional supported attributes for describing images, audio, and video may be added in future revisions of this document. have no limitations on the number of times they can appear, the general nature of RSS should be preserved: an represents a "story". Simply stated, this is similar to the blog style of syndication. However, if one is using this module to strictly publish media, there should be one element for each media object/group. This is to allow for proper attribution for the origination of the media content through the element. It also allows the full benefit of the other RSS elements to be realized. The following elements are optional and may appear as sub-elements of When an element appears at a shallow level, such as , it means that the element should be applied to every media object within its scope. Duplicated elements appearing at deeper levels of the document tree have higher priority over other levels. For example, level elements are favored over level elements. The priority level is listed from strongest to weakest: [NOTE: This is deprecated, and has been replaced with the more flexible This allows the permissible audience to be declared. If this element is not included, it assumes that no restrictions are necessary. It has one optional attribute. r (cz 1 lz 1 nz 1 oz 1 vz 1) is the URI that identifies the rating scheme. It is an optional attribute. If this attribute is not included, the default scheme is urn:simple (adult | nonadult). The title of the particular media object. It has 1 optional attribute. The Judy's - The Moo Song specifies the type of text embedded. Possible values are either 'plain' or 'html'. Default value is 'plain'. All html must be entity-encoded. It is an optional attribute. Short description describing the media object typically a sentence in length. It has 1 optional attribute. This was some really bizarre band I listened to as a young lad. specifies the type of text embedded. Possible values are either 'plain' or 'html'. Default value is 'plain'. All html must be entity-encoded. It is an optional attribute. Highly relevant keywords describing the media object with typically a maximum of ten words. The keywords and phrases should be comma delimited. kitty, cat, big dog, yarn, fluffy Allows particular images to be used as representative images for the media object. If multiple thumbnails are included, and time coding is not at play, it is assumed that the images are in order of importance. It has 1 required attribute and 3 optional attributes. specifies the url of the thumbnail. It is a required attribute. specifies the height of the thumbnail. It is an optional attribute. specifies the width of the thumbnail. It is an optional attribute. specifies the time offset in relation to the media object. Typically this is used when creating multiple keyframes within a single video. The format for this attribute should be in the DSM-CC's Normal Play Time (NTP) as used in RTSP [ RFC 2326 3.6 Normal Play Time ]. It is an optional attribute. NTP has a second or subsecond resolution. It is specified as H:M:S.h (npt-hhmmss) or S.h (npt-sec), where H=hours, M=minutes, S=second and h=fractions of a second. A possible alternative to NTP would be SMPTE. It is believed that NTP is simpler and easier to use. Allows a taxonomy to be set that gives an indication of the type of media content, and its particular contents. It has 2 optional attributes. is the URI that identifies the categorization scheme. It is an optional attribute. If this attribute is not included, the default scheme is 'http://search.yahoo.com/mrss/category_schema'. is the human readable label that can be displayed in end user applications. It is an optional attribute. This is the hash of the binary media file. It can appear multiple times as long as each instance is a different . It has 1 optional attribute. indicates the algorithm used to create the hash. Possible values are 'md5' and 'sha-1'. Default value is 'md5'. It is an optional attribute. Allows the media object to be accessed through a web browser media player console. This element is required only if a direct media attribute is not specified in the element. It has 1 required attribute, and 2 optional attributes. is the url of the player console that plays the media. It is a required attribute. is the height of the browser window that the should be opened in. It is an optional attribute. is the width of the browser window that the should be opened in. It is an optional attribute. Notable entity and the contribution to the creation of the media object. Current entities can include people, companies, locations, etc. Specific entities can have multiple roles, and several entities can have the same role. These should appear as distinct elements. It has 2 optional attributes. role specifies the role the entity played. Must be lowercase. It is an optional attribute. is the URI that identifies the role scheme. It is an optional attribute. If this attribute is not included, the default scheme is 'urn:ebu'. See: European Broadcasting Union Role Codes. actor anchor person author choreographer composer conductor director editor graphic designer grip illustrator lyricist music arranger music group musician orchestra performer photographer producer reporter vocalist European Broadcasting Union Role Codes Copyright information for media object. It has 1 optional attribute. is the url for a terms of use page or additional copyright information. If the media is operating under a Creative Commons license, the Creative Commons module should be used instead. It is an optional attribute. Allows the inclusion of a text transcript, closed captioning, or lyrics of the media content. Many of these elements are permitted to provide a time series of text. In such cases, it is encouraged, but not required, that the elements be grouped by language and appear in time sequence order based on the time. Elements can have overlapping times. It has 4 optional attributes. Oh, say, can you see By the dawn's early light specifies the type of text embedded. Possible values are either 'plain' or 'html'. Default value is 'plain'. All html must be entity-encoded. It is an optional attribute. is the primary language encapsulated in the media object. Language codes possible are detailed in RFC 3066. This attribute is used similar to the xml:lang attribute detailed in the XML 1.0 Specification (Third Edition). It is an optional attribute. specifies the start time offset that the text starts being relevant to the media object. An example of this would be for closed captioning. It uses the NTP time code format (see: the time attribute used in ). It is an optional attribute. specifies the end time that the text is relevant. If this attribute is not provided, and a time is used, it is expected that the end time is either the end of the clip or the start of the next Allows restrictions to be placed on the aggregator rendering the media in the feed. Currently, restrictions are based on distributor (uri) and country codes. This element is purely informational and no obligation can be assumed or implied. Only one element of the same can be applied to a media object - all others will be ignored. Entities in this element should be space separated. To allow the producer to explicitly declare his/her intentions, two literals are reserved: 'all', 'none'. These literals can only be used once. This element has 1 required attribute, and 1 optional attribute (with strict requirements for its exclusion). indicates the type of relationship that the restriction represents (allow | deny). In the example above, the media object should only be syndicated in Australia and the United States. It is a required attribute. If the "allow" element is empty and the type is relationship is "allow", it is assumed that the empty list means "allow nobody" and the media should not be syndicated. A more explicit method would be: specifies the type of restriction (country | uri) that the media can be syndicated. It is an optional attribute; however can only be excluded when using one of the literal values "all" or "none". "country" allows restrictions to be placed based on country code. [ "uri" allows restrictions based on URI. Examples: urn:apple, http://images.google.com, urn:yahoo, etc. The following are encouraged "best practices" when using Media RSS: If your feed is not an "incremental" in the traditional RSS sense, but rather an entire snapshot of all media available, please take note of the element. This element when set to "false" correctly informs the RSS reader that the current feed replaces the previously fetched feed. If you prefer to syndicate media more along the lines of traditional RSS, this specification also allows you to daisy chain multiple feeds together to compose a history of media that is available on your site. Expirations Using Dublin Core To the best of your ability, media that is scheduled to expire after a given time should be duly noted through Dublin Core's A recently created movie, using the RSS 2.0 element and without the use of the Media RSS module. A movie review with a trailer, using a Creative Commons license. My Movie Review Site Movie Title: Is this a good movie? A music video with a link to a player window, and additional metadata about the video, including expiration date. Discussions of great videos The latest video from an artist Oh, say, can you see, by the dawn's early light Several different songs that relate to the same topic. Discussion on different songs These songs make me think about blah Same song with multiple files at different bitrates and encodings. (Bittorrent example as well) Songs galore at different bitrates Cool song by an artist Thank you to everyone who has contributed to this specification, and to all those that sent suggestions and corrections. The Yahoo! Group " " has been instrumental in helping transform the initial Media RSS proposal into a working specification. While there have been many helpful individuals from this community, special thanks go to Danny Ayers, Marc Canter, Lucas Gonze, Vadim Zaliva, Greg Smith, Robert Sayre, Suzan Foster, Erwin van Hunen, Greg Gershman, Jennifer Kolar, Bill Kearney, and Andreas Haugstrup Pedersen. On the Yahoo! team: David Hall, John Thrall, Eckart Walther, Jeremy Zawodny, Andy Volk, and Bradley Horowitz. On the Google team: David Marwood and Peter Chane. Copyright &copy; 2007 Yahoo! Inc. All rights reserved.
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/health/4121411.stm	BBC NEWS | Health | Pregnancy timeline Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Thursday, 23 December, 2004, 13:42 GMT E-mail this to a friend Fertilisation occurs and a ball of quickly multiplying cells embeds itself in the lining of the uterus. In the UK pregnancy is calculated from the first day of the woman's last period so for as much as three weeks of this first month she might not be actually pregnant. When fertilisation does occur the tiny mass of cells called a blastocyst at this stage embeds itself in the lining of the womb which is already thickening to support it. The mass of cells is developing fast and becomes an embryo. For many women the first sign of pregnancy is a missed period. Shopbought tests are considered largely reliable so the mother-to-be does not have to have her pregnancy confirmed by her GP. If a first test is negative a second one a few days later may prove positive as hormone levels in the urine rise. The embryo officially becomes a foetus. It is about the size of a baked bean and its spine and nervous system begin to form. The foetus already has its own blood system and may be a different blood group from its mother. Blood vessels are forming in what will become the umbilical cord and tiny buds which will become limbs appear. The baby&acute;s heart is beginning to develop. Morning sickness and other side effects of early pregnancy may take hold. Around this time many women find they experience the side-effects of early pregnancy including needing to urinate more often nausea and vomiting and feeling a bit weepy and irritable. All medication including supplements need to be carefully checked as the foetus is undergoing vital development in the first 12 weeks. If the woman has not told her GP or community midwife she is pregnant yet now is a good time to do so. It is quite common to have a first scan at this stage if the woman has had a previous miscarriage or bleeding. An early scan is often done through the vagina and is used to check the pregnancy is not ectopic. It should show up the baby&acute;s heartbeat. The nervous system is also developing rapidly especially the brain. The head gets bigger and eyes form under the skin of the face. The foetus' limbs are growing and look more like arms and legs. All internal organs are developing and becoming more complex. The foetus is about 5cm long with its head tucked onto its chest. It has most its major organs and eyes and ears are developing. A scan at 10-13 weeks is recommended to pin down the date of the pregnancy. The umbilical cord is fully formed providing nourishment and removing waste products. The foetus looks fully human now. By this week the threat of miscarriage is much reduced. Many women announce their pregnancy to friends and colleagues. The foetus is growing in length much more quickly by now it is about eight cm long and weighs about 60 grams. The placenta is now wellformed though it's not yet doing its full job it takes over fully in week 14. The mother is likely to have her first scan this week. The womans uterus is becoming larger and is starting to rise out of the pelvis. The foetus can move its head quite easily. Third of the way through. The average pregnancy lasts 266 days or 280 days from the first day of last period. Screening for Downs syndrome is offered about now. A simple blood test is carried out first then further tests may be offered. On the basis of the blood test results the woman may opt for a Chorionic Villus sample or an amniocentesis which would diagnose or other chromosomal abnormalities. However these diagnostic tests have a small risk of subsequent miscarriage. An alternative to blood tests is a nuchal translucency scan a new scan offered by some larger hospitals. But again an amniocentisis would be required for firm diagnosis. The foetus now has toe and finger nails eyebrows and eyelashes. It is also covered with downy hair. The hair that will cover the baby until the last week or so of pregnancy - called lanugo - starts to form. This hair is very fine more like down and it probably serves as some form of insulation and protection for the skin. The foetus can hear noises from the outside world. By this stage the mother is visibly pregnant and the uterus is rising. By this stage the foetus is moving around a lot - probably enough to be felt. The foetus is now about 15-20cm long and weighs about 300g. Milk teeth have formed in the gums. Half way through pregnancy now. Almost all mothers are offered a routine scan. The foetus develops a waxy coating called vernix. The scan can show the foetus in fine detail and often reveal if the baby is a boy or a girl. However not all hospitals offer to tell parents the sex of the child - and not all parents want to know. The mother may feel short of breath as her uterus pushes against her diaphragm leaving less space for the lungs. The mother may be offered another ultrasound scan around this time. The scan can check the baby&acute;s spine internal organs and growth are normal. Senses develop: taste buds have started to form on the tongue and the foetus starts to feel touch. The skeleton continues to develop and bones that form the skull begin to harden - but not fully. Antenatal checkup and scan to check the baby&acute;s position. A baby born this early does sometimes survive. A baby born at 24 weeks may possibly survive but it would have severe breathing difficulties as its lungs would not be strong enough to cope. It would also be very thin lightweight and susceptible to infections. All organs are now in place and the rest of the pregnancy is for growth. Preeclampsia is a risk from here onwards. This potentially fatal condition causes high blood pressure protein in the urine and swelling caused by fluid retention. The causes are unclear but research suggests it may be linked to an immune reaction to the foetus or the placenta. If the condition is serious women may be advised to take drugs to lower their blood pressure and in some cases an early caesarean or induction may be performed. Serious complications of pregnancy The foetus skin is gradually becoming more opaque than transparent. The foetus measures about 34cm and weighs about 800g. Routine checkup to test for preeclampsia. Women with Rhesus negative blood will also be tested for antibodies. If the mother has Rh negative blood but the baby is Rh positive she can develop antibodies to her baby&acute;s blood during labour. This is not a problem in the first birth but can affect subsequent pregnancies and result in stillbirth. Fortunately treatment is simple and effective. BBC Health: Ask the doctor - Rhesus disease Some women develop restless leg syndrome in their third trimester. This is sensations such as crawling tingling or even cramps and burning inside the foot or leg - often in the evening and at night disturbing sleep and making the mother feel she needs to get up and walk around. No-one knows what causes this harmless but irritating condition. Braxton Hicks contractions may begin around now. They are practice contractions which dont usually hurt. These are irregular, painless contractions which feel like a squeezing sensation near the top of the uterus. If contractions become painful or occur four times an hour or more, the woman should call a doctor as she may be in early labour. The foetus can see now and tell light from dark. The mother&acute;s breasts start to produce colostrum about now This high calorie milk is produced by the mother to feed the baby for the first few days after birth before normal milk starts. Another antenatal appointment. The foetus is about 42cm and weighs 2.2kg. A baby born now has a good chance of survival. From now the baby should become settled in a head downwards position. A midwife can help to move it if necessary. The mother may find it more difficult to eat full meals as the expanded uterus presses on her stomach. If the mother has been told she may need a planned caesarean, now is a good time to discuss it further. The baby&acute;s head may engage in the pelvis any time now. The baby&acute;s lungs are practically mature now and it can survive unaided. The final weeks in the womb are to put on weight. Babies born from this week onward are not considered early. Another ante-natal appointment. The mother has reached her full size and weight by now. In theory the baby should be born this week. The mother&acute;s cervix prepares for the birth by softening. First babies are often up to a week late but if there are signs of distress to mother or child the birth will be induced. E-mail this to a friend A week by week guide to what happens to mother and baby during pregnancy Nine months: An overview Experts back folic acid in flour Aspirin 'prevents bowel cancer' Drinking at home 'cuts bingeing' Week at a Glance Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/england/west_midlands/6646467.stm	BBC NEWS | England | West Midlands | Body parts sale man avoids jail Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 12:51 GMT 13:51 UK E-mail this to a friend Body parts sale man avoids jail Daniel Tuck tried to sell his kidney for £24,000 A debt-ridden salesman who tried to sell one of his own kidneys over the internet has been given a 12-month suspended jail sentence. Daniel Tuck, from Oldbury, West Midlands, is the first person to be successfully prosecuted under a new law preventing the sale of body parts. The 26-year-old tried to sell his kidney for £24,000 on a chatroom used by kidney disease sufferers. The judge suspended his sentence for two years and ordered him to pay £250. He had faced up to three years in jail for contravening the Human Tissue Act. I want to sell my kidney - this is 100% genuine. I am a white male of completely perfect health. Tuck had previous convictions for theft and obtaining property by deception. Judge Challinor said: "There is much public disquiet surrounding the sale of body parts for money and there is an understandable revulsion at such practices. "A sentence incorporating an element of deterrence is required." Helena Miller, prosecuting, said Tuck admitted a charge of offering to supply human material for transplantation last month. He had posted an advert on the internet which read: "I am a healthy 25-year-old male from Birmingham in England. I am blood group O+ and am desperate for funds to rebuild my life. "I want to sell my kidney - this is 100% genuine. I am a white male of completely perfect health. Why risk getting a kidney from a Third World country?" He was questioned by police after meeting a reporter from the Sunday Mercury newspaper in May 2006 and agreeing a price for the kidney, she said. During the meeting Tuck confirmed he knew the sale of organs in the United Kingdom was illegal. When he was arrested in June he told police he had recently split with his girlfriend and was £25,000 in debt. "He said he wasn't thinking straight," Ms Miller said. "He said he put the advert on the site to see what would happen." Jas Mann, defending, said his client had been a broken man at the time of the offence and did not intend to go through with his proposal. He said Tuck was gambling on a regular basis and "pumped" his earnings into fruit machines. A spokesman for the Human Tissue Authority, set up under the new Act to take action against organ trafficking, said: "It is an offence to give or receive a reward for the supply or offer of human material for transplantation." A spokesman for the Crown Prosecution Service said: "Any advertisement to sell human organs is a criminal offence and, where there is sufficient evidence and it is in the public interest, the CPS will prosecute these cases." E-mail this to a friend VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS Daniel Tuck hangs his head outside court Culture, leisure, sport and more from the BBC website for the Black Country The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites TOP WEST MIDLANDS STORIES Body parts sale man avoids jail Micro artist sells works for £11m Man held over train 'gun' alert MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/health/6642749.stm	BBC NEWS | Health | Drugs adviser raises charity fear Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Thursday, 10 May 2007, 23:01 GMT 00:01 UK E-mail this to a friend Drugs adviser raises charity fear The drugs are reserved for those with moderate Alzheimer's Concerns have been raised about the links between pharmaceutical firms and charity patient groups by the body that advises the NHS on which drugs to use. Sir Michael Rawlins, chairman of the National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence, said charities had to be wary of pharmaceutical donations. And he urged charities to question the cost of drugs more. But patient groups said there were strict guidelines covering such donations by the drugs industry. I have yet ever to hear a patient organisation criticise a price of the drug Sir Michael Rawlins, of NICE Sir Michael said: "Patient organisations need to think very carefully about why pharmaceutical companies are giving them money and they have to make sure they are not beholden to a pharmaceutical company. "I have yet ever to hear a patient organisation criticise a price of the drug. "When they do that they will come into their own." Sir Michael refused to name individual groups The subject of drug firm donations to patients groups and charities is a sensitive issue. Several groups, although not all, accept donations from drug firms. Most of those that do have codes of conduct setting out what those donations can and cannot be used for - most are restricted to funding education purposes than for campaigning. The Alzheimer's Society is involved in legal action along with Eisai and Pfizer against NICE over the decision to restrict the use of Alzheimer's treatments. The group has accepted money from both companies. But a spokeswoman pointed out that drug firm donations account for less than 1% of its income. She said the society's challenge was being done independently of the drug firms and added donations were never used to fund campaign activity. Breast Cancer Care, which pushed for NICE to approve the so-called breast cancer wonder-drug Herceptin, has received money from its maker Roche. A spokeswoman said any drug industry donations were always used for "impartial patient information". She added it was important there was a dialogue between patient groups and drug companies and she agreed cost was something that needed to be debated. "The cost of drug is clearly becoming a major factor in the potential for cancer treatment and must be addressed." And the Association of the British Pharmaceutical Industry denied there was anything wrong with such donations. "Patient groups and companies have a shared interest. When they work together it is in the patients' interests, usually to do with education programmes or disease awareness. "Any involvement has to be declared by the company so it is quite transparent." E-mail this to a friend Drugs watchdog faces legal review 26 Mar 07 | Health Alzheimer's drugs appeal refused 11 Oct 06 | Health Drug 'treats severe Alzheimer's' 23 Mar 06 | Health 'The drug improved both our lives' 10 Oct 06 | Health The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Experts back folic acid in flour Aspirin 'prevents bowel cancer' Drinking at home 'cuts bingeing' MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/england/nottinghamshire/6647431.stm	BBC NEWS | England | Nottinghamshire | Boy's fight to cure rare disease Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 15:18 GMT 16:18 UK E-mail this to a friend Boy's fight to cure rare disease Jack only has half the movement in his right arm A 12-year-old boy from Nottinghamshire is fighting to find a cure for a rare bone disease. Jack Beaumont, from Sutton-in-Ashfield, is believed to be one of just 300 people in the world who have been diagnosed with melorheostosis. The disease, which causes excess bone growth, has left Jack with half the normal movement in his right arm. He was meeting experts at a national conference on melorheostosis in Oxford on Friday. Jack and fellow sufferers shared their stories at the UK Melorheostosis Conference. "I'm hoping for some answers and I'm looking forward to meeting some other people who've got the same disease as me," he said. His mother, Nicola Beaumont, added: "He just shrugs it off because he's so laid back, nothing affects him in that respect but I think as he gets older, he's going to find more restrictions." E-mail this to a friend VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS Jack Beaumont talks about his hopes for a cure Sport, travel, leisure and more from the BBC website for Nottingham The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Man, 80, attacked by city mugger Disabled resident choked on onion Householder is tied up by robbers MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/health/default.stm	BBC NEWS | Health Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Radio 4's Midnight News Friday, 11 May 2007, 19:19 GMT 20:19 UK Experts back folic acid in flour Folic acid should be added to flour to cut the risk of birth defects such as spina bifida, experts have recommended. Aspirin 'prevents bowel cancer' Taking a dose of aspirin each day for five years can prevent bowel cancer developing, a UK study suggests. Drinking at home 'cuts bingeing' Teenagers who drink alcohol with their parents are less likely to binge drink, research suggests. Body parts sale man avoids jail Cancer therapy cuts side effects Scientists create 'plastic' blood Uni may ban exercise ball chairs Drugs adviser raises charity fear Call for mental heath care push ALSO IN THE NEWS How Milo is helping a woman with epilepsy lead a normal life VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS UK- 'worst' cancer drug access Patients and staff give their opinion on the NHS under Blair Could your daily commute be helped by a spot of meditation? He promised to save the NHS in 1997, so how has he fared? Oral sex linked to throat cancer Gynaecologist lacked op consent Boy's fight to cure rare disease Screening as pupils contract TB Baby unit 'to re-open next week' UK licence for breast cancer drug Toddlers to get help with talking Warning as tick diseases on rise Heart disease and stroke Oral sex linked to throat cancer 'Sumo' offers brain disease hope Artificial food colouring warning How do doctors decide on the best care for their patients? A comprehensive guide to clinical conditions FROM OTHER BBC SITES How and when you should get another doctor's view ELSEWHERE ON THE BBC Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/england/essex/6644841.stm	BBC NEWS | England | Essex | Gynaecologist lacked op consent Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Thursday, 10 May 2007, 20:02 GMT 21:02 UK E-mail this to a friend Gynaecologist lacked op consent The General Medical Council said the case was "wholly exceptional" A gynaecologist who failed to obtain consent from a woman for an operation which left her unable to have sex has not been struck off. The General Medical Council (GMC) ruled it had been an "exceptional" case that saw Essex-based Dr June Swinhoe fail in her practise. Marian Howland, 52, from Epping, had not been made aware of risks linked to her operation for a prolapse in 2003. The GMC panel ruled Dr Swinhoe posed no risk to patients. In March 2003, Dr Swinhoe was working as a consultant gynaecologist at King George Hospital in Ilford and privately at Holly House Hospital in Buckhurst Hill. I have lost a lot of my life and all unnecessarily Mrs Howland had been married for eight years when she visited Dr Swinhoe with a prolapse and discomfort during sex. She told the panel she was admitted for the prolapse to be repaired but was not informed of all the side effects or of any risks associated with the procedures. Dr Swinhoe had not taken a full medical history from Mrs Howland who had previously had a hysterectomy, her ovaries removed and become blind in one eye. In tears, Mrs Howland told the panel a few weeks after the operation it became clear she had been left unable to have sex, and had been left "shell-shocked". She added: "I have lost my best friend, my husband, my lover. "I have lost a lot of my life and all unnecessarily." The panel told Dr Swinhoe: "The deficiencies in your communication with Mrs Howland and your failure to obtain consent from her were an aberration and amount to an isolated departure from your usual high standards of professional competence and care. "The finding that your fitness is impaired is, in itself, a very significant mark on your record. "You have learned from this distressing experience. "This is a wholly exceptional case and in the circumstances the panel is satisfied that it is fair, proportionate and sufficient to conclude the case without taking any action in respect of your registration." E-mail this to a friend Sport, travel, leisure and more from the BBC website for Essex New lead over Oliver pub robbery Four arrested in drugs house raid Crews tackle fire at listed hotel MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/england/north_yorkshire/6645923.stm	BBC NEWS | England | North Yorkshire | Scientists create 'plastic' blood Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 09:08 GMT 10:08 UK E-mail this to a friend Scientists create 'plastic' blood The researchers said the artificial blood was easier to store Scientists have developed an artificial plastic blood which could act as a substitute in emergencies. Researchers at Sheffield University said their creation could be a huge advantage in war zones. They say that the artificial blood is light to carry, does not need to be kept cool and can be kept for longer. The new blood is made up of plastic molecules that have an iron atom at their core, like haemoglobin, that can carry oxygen through the body. The scientists said the artificial blood could be cheap to produce and they were looking for extra funding to develop a final prototype that would be suitable for biological testing. Dr Lance Twyman, of the university's Department of Chemistry, said: "We are very excited about the potential for this product and about the fact that this could save lives. "Many people die from superficial wounds when they are trapped in an accident or are injured on the battlefield and can't get blood before they get to hospital. "This product can be stored a lot more easily than blood, meaning large quantities could be carried easily by ambulances and the armed forces." A sample of the artificial blood prototype will be on display at the Science Museum in London from 22 May as part of an exhibition about the history of plastics. E-mail this to a friend Sport, travel, leisure and more from the BBC website for South Yorkshire The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites TOP NORTH YORKSHIRE STORIES Policeman jailed over child sex Battlefield homes get green light Allotment produce declared safe MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/england/west_midlands/6646467.stm	BBC NEWS | England | West Midlands | Body parts sale man avoids jail Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 12:51 GMT 13:51 UK E-mail this to a friend Body parts sale man avoids jail Daniel Tuck tried to sell his kidney for £24,000 A debt-ridden salesman who tried to sell one of his own kidneys over the internet has been given a 12-month suspended jail sentence. Daniel Tuck, from Oldbury, West Midlands, is the first person to be successfully prosecuted under a new law preventing the sale of body parts. The 26-year-old tried to sell his kidney for £24,000 on a chatroom used by kidney disease sufferers. The judge suspended his sentence for two years and ordered him to pay £250. He had faced up to three years in jail for contravening the Human Tissue Act. I want to sell my kidney - this is 100% genuine. I am a white male of completely perfect health. Tuck had previous convictions for theft and obtaining property by deception. Judge Challinor said: "There is much public disquiet surrounding the sale of body parts for money and there is an understandable revulsion at such practices. "A sentence incorporating an element of deterrence is required." Helena Miller, prosecuting, said Tuck admitted a charge of offering to supply human material for transplantation last month. He had posted an advert on the internet which read: "I am a healthy 25-year-old male from Birmingham in England. I am blood group O+ and am desperate for funds to rebuild my life. "I want to sell my kidney - this is 100% genuine. I am a white male of completely perfect health. Why risk getting a kidney from a Third World country?" He was questioned by police after meeting a reporter from the Sunday Mercury newspaper in May 2006 and agreeing a price for the kidney, she said. During the meeting Tuck confirmed he knew the sale of organs in the United Kingdom was illegal. When he was arrested in June he told police he had recently split with his girlfriend and was £25,000 in debt. "He said he wasn't thinking straight," Ms Miller said. "He said he put the advert on the site to see what would happen." Jas Mann, defending, said his client had been a broken man at the time of the offence and did not intend to go through with his proposal. He said Tuck was gambling on a regular basis and "pumped" his earnings into fruit machines. A spokesman for the Human Tissue Authority, set up under the new Act to take action against organ trafficking, said: "It is an offence to give or receive a reward for the supply or offer of human material for transplantation." A spokesman for the Crown Prosecution Service said: "Any advertisement to sell human organs is a criminal offence and, where there is sufficient evidence and it is in the public interest, the CPS will prosecute these cases." E-mail this to a friend VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS Daniel Tuck hangs his head outside court Culture, leisure, sport and more from the BBC website for the Black Country The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites TOP WEST MIDLANDS STORIES Body parts sale man avoids jail Micro artist sells works for £11m Man held over train 'gun' alert MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/england/nottinghamshire/6647431.stm	BBC NEWS | England | Nottinghamshire | Boy's fight to cure rare disease Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 15:18 GMT 16:18 UK E-mail this to a friend Boy's fight to cure rare disease Jack only has half the movement in his right arm A 12-year-old boy from Nottinghamshire is fighting to find a cure for a rare bone disease. Jack Beaumont, from Sutton-in-Ashfield, is believed to be one of just 300 people in the world who have been diagnosed with melorheostosis. The disease, which causes excess bone growth, has left Jack with half the normal movement in his right arm. He was meeting experts at a national conference on melorheostosis in Oxford on Friday. Jack and fellow sufferers shared their stories at the UK Melorheostosis Conference. "I'm hoping for some answers and I'm looking forward to meeting some other people who've got the same disease as me," he said. His mother, Nicola Beaumont, added: "He just shrugs it off because he's so laid back, nothing affects him in that respect but I think as he gets older, he's going to find more restrictions." E-mail this to a friend VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS Jack Beaumont talks about his hopes for a cure Sport, travel, leisure and more from the BBC website for Nottingham The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Man, 80, attacked by city mugger Disabled resident choked on onion Householder is tied up by robbers MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/northern_ireland/6645479.stm	BBC NEWS | Northern Ireland | Baby unit 'to re-open next week' Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 17:42 GMT 18:42 UK E-mail this to a friend Baby unit 'to re-open next week' The neonatal unit treats the sickest babies in Northern Ireland A consultant at the neonatal unit in Belfast where three premature babies picked up an infection said it hopes to resume admissions next week. The Royal Maternity Hospital closed the unit temporarily to new admissions after the babies became seriously ill. The ward has now been chemically decontaminated. Health Minister Michael McGimpsey said eliminating infections in hospitals was a priority. Dr Stanley Craig said the babies were responding well to antibiotics. "Any infection when you're particularly compromised, as a pre-term baby is, is potentially life-threatening," he said. "These babies are responding to the antibiotics that they're on, which is good news for the babies themselves, their parents and the staff involved in their care. The hospital hopes to re-open the unit next week "Being born premature does leave you very vulnerable to infection and it can be a problem, but we're seeing encouraging signs." The babies, who picked up a multi-resistant enterobacter infection, have been isolated and are being closely monitored by specially trained nurses. The health minister said the situation was not acceptable and pointed out there had been much investment in the area of patient safety. "It is one of the issues that we look at ...and it's one of the areas I take very, very seriously," said Mr McGimpsey. "Obviously when people go to hospital they expect not to pick up infection, when they're there. There is an incidence of infections in hospitals and we look to eliminate that because whatever the incidence is, it is ... too high." Iris Robinson of the DUP said she was concerned about the impact on other hospitals. "What I am particularly concerned about is how the other hospitals across the province are going to deal with demand while the Royal's neonatal unit is out of operation," she said. "Usually the most unwell babies from all around Northern Ireland would be transferred to the specialist unit in Belfast. "Obviously this will not be the case for the immediate future, and these cases will have to be managed in their local units." E-mail this to a friend VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS Dot Kirby reports on the units closure Royal Hospitals maternity unit The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites TOP NORTHERN IRELAND STORIES Sanchez resigning as NI manager Police renew city murder appeal Man is arrested over pub shooting MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/health/6643547.stm	BBC NEWS | Health | Aspirin 'prevents bowel cancer' Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Thursday, 10 May 2007, 23:01 GMT 00:01 UK E-mail this to a friend Aspirin 'prevents bowel cancer' Aspirin could benefit high-risk groups, the study says Taking aspirin each day can prevent bowel cancer developing, a study says. Oxford University researchers said taking a dose of 300mg a day for five years offered the protection. Long-term aspirin use is generally not backed because of the risk of stomach problems, but the team said it could benefit those at high-risk of cancer. Cancer campaigners welcomed the study - published in the Lancet - which examined data from previous research covering more than 7,500 people. These findings are not an indication that the general population should rush out and take what is a high dosage of aspirin on a daily basis. Each year, around 35,000 men and women in the UK are diagnosed with bowel cancer, and more than 16,000 die from the disease. The researchers looked at the results from two large-scale UK trials carried out in the late 1970s and early 1980s covering over 7,500 people which had given some people 300, 500 or 1,200mg per day doses of aspirin or a dummy pill for five to seven years. The people in the study were then followed for up to 20 years, and deaths from bowel cancer were logged. The team say it takes at least 10 years to see an effect, because that is how long it takes for a pre-cancerous growths to develop into cancer. Other studies have examined aspirin's benefits. However, this was the first where people were allocated to take different doses of the drug, or the fake version, rather than looking back at the aspirin use of bowel cancer patients and comparing them with healthy people. High risk group 'benefit' The researchers found that taking 300mg of aspirin - the equivalent of one pill - a day for five years reduced the incidence of bowel cancer by 74% in the subsequent 10 to 15 years. An accompanying review of 30 observational studies suggested taking medium-to-high doses of aspirin for 10 years or more reduced the risk of developing the disease by 50%-70%. The protective effect of aspirin appeared to be consistent regardless of age, sex, race or country of origin. It was also seen in individuals who had a close family relative with bowel cancer, which normally raises the lifetime risk two to four times. Professor Peter Rothwell, who led the research, said: "What we are saying is that for a subgroup of people at high risk of bowel cancer, they probably aren't going to be dramatically harmed by taking aspirin. "They may have some risk of bleeding in the stomach, but they will see potentially significant benefits in the reduction of their colon cancer risk. "In that situation, I think taking aspirin daily would be worthwhile." Dr Andrew Chan, from Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston, writing in the Lancet, said the findings were "convincing evidence" that aspirin can reduce the incidence of bowel cancer. But he added: "With the concerns about the potential risks of long-term aspirin use and the availability of alternative prevention strategies - such as screening - these findings are not sufficient to warrant a recommendation for the general population to use aspirin for cancer prevention." Rob Glynne-Jones, chief medical advisor to the charity Bowel Cancer UK, said: "This is very interesting and it certainly confirms what we already know and believe about the links between aspirin, polyps and the development of bowel cancer. "However, these findings are not an indication that the general population should rush out and take what is a high dosage of aspirin on a daily basis. "Aspirin at this dose over a prolonged period of time could lead to potentially serious side effects in a few people." E-mail this to a friend VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS The study's findings about aspirin and bowel cancer Aspirin 'cuts bowel cancer risk' 23 Aug 05 | Health Aspirin cuts breast cancer risk 26 May 04 | Health Aspirin: A century of good news 26 Jun 02 | Health The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Experts back folic acid in flour Aspirin 'prevents bowel cancer' Drinking at home 'cuts bingeing' MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/health/6644293.stm	BBC NEWS | Health | Call for mental heath care push Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 07:27 GMT 08:27 UK E-mail this to a friend Call for mental heath care push Most mental health treatment takes place out of hospitals Mental health services must renew their efforts to improve community care, the mental health tsar says. Professor Louis Appleby has called on NHS trusts to look at new ways of working to help people rebuild lives. He said they should look to work more closely with employment and housing agencies and cut waiting lists for talking therapies in England. Campaigners said there was a lot of work to do to ensure services were good enough for patients. In the last eight years, there has been a big push to move care out of hospitals and into the community. With units and day centres closing and community services cut, the more seriously ill are still being neglected and put at risk Marjorie Wallace, of Sane There are now more than 700 community teams, including nurses, doctors and social workers, providing a range of crisis help and early intervention. However, the Healthcare Commission last year criticised services, pointing to gaps in out-of-hours care, talking therapies and access to information. Nearly half of services were rated as fair or weak. Professor Appleby said the report was about the next phase of reform of mental health care. He told BBC News: "We've had several years of strengthening what community services do, and the report is about breaking down the barriers in the next stage of reforms. "I'm talking about barriers that get in the way of better patients' experience of care "At the moment, for example, there is a barrier between what health services traditionally do, which is clinical care, improving people's illnesses, abolishing their symptoms. "But what patients often tell us they want is help with quality of life. They want opportunities for training, for jobs, and for decent housing, and we have to take on that responsibility." His report called on the 60 mental heath trusts to consult with their local populations about what they needed. The report said mental health trusts should look at ways they could link up with agencies responsible for housing and employment. It also called for community teams to get involved in giving people more advice on how to reduce alcohol and drug use and look after their physical health. He also called for a renewed effort to reduce waiting lists for talking therapies such as cognitive behavioural therapy, which sometimes has waits of over 12 months. The NHS is currently rolling out a programme of providing people with access to computerised CBT and the government has set up 10 pilots to explore ways of speeding up access to talking therapies. Marjorie Wallace, chief executive of the mental health charity Sane, said extra investment was needed. "We are all too aware that with units and day centres closing and community services cut, the more seriously ill are still being neglected and put at risk. "The government goes forward with its policy of reform and choice, but there are thousands who have no choice of where to go in crisis and little chance of rehabilitation or safe, consistent care, both in or out of hospital." E-mail this to a friend Firms urged to help mentally ill Mental health wards 'unpleasant' Mental health services 'failing' Young 'failed' on mental health Fear over health of mentally ill 'My company helped me recover' 'The services were just not there' 'I'm so glad I didn't kill myself' 'I have washed my hands of NHS' 'I learned to live with voices' Kicking depression into touch The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Experts back folic acid in flour Aspirin 'prevents bowel cancer' Drinking at home 'cuts bingeing' MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/health/6639711.stm	BBC NEWS | Health | UK licence for breast cancer drug Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Thursday, 10 May 2007, 10:34 GMT 11:34 UK E-mail this to a friend UK licence for breast cancer drug The drug may extend life for some women A new drug has been licensed to treat UK patients with advanced breast cancer that has begun to spread. However, patients may find problems getting Avastin, as the NHS drugs watchdogs have yet to consider whether to sanction its use. The drug is designed to be used in tandem with another chemotherapy agent, paclitaxel. Avastin, which works by starving cancer cells of a blood supply, has previously been used to treat bowel cancer. All breast cancer treatments will have risks and benefits so it is vital women have all the information they need to make informed decisions about their treatment options However, the drug was rejected for NHS use in England and Wales for that purpose last year. The National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence (NICE) ruled that it was not cost-effective. In trials, breast cancer patients who took Avastin and paclitaxel went an average of 13 months without their cancer growing, compared with an average of 6.7 months for patients who took paclitaxel alone. Professor David Miles, a consultant medical oncologist at the Mount Vernon Cancer Centre, Middlesex, said: "This provides some hope for the 13,000 patients a year that are told the devastating news they have metastatic breast cancer which cannot be cured with surgery. "It is an important step forward to have discovered another targeted treatment which can inhibit the growth of breast cancer and as a result increase significantly the time that patients' breast cancer is controlled." Dr Emma Pennery, a nurse consultant at the charity Breast Cancer Care, said women with secondary breast cancer would welcome any treatment that could potentially slow down the progression of their disease. "This announcement means that there is now another treatment option available, adding to the growing range of targeted drugs for breast cancer." Dr Pennery called on the National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence (NICE) and the Scottish Medicines Consortium to appraise the drug as soon as possible. Dr Sarah Rawlings, of the charity Breakthrough Breast Cancer, said: "The development of targeted therapies like this is an important step forward in cancer treatment. "Avastin is an additional treatment option that will be welcomed by women with metastatic breast cancer, although it's important to remember it might not be suitable for everyone. "All breast cancer treatments will have risks and benefits so it is vital women have all the information they need to make informed decisions about their treatment options. "Any woman concerned should discuss this with her doctor." E-mail this to a friend Breast cancer drug cocktail hope 23 Mar 06 | Health US approves new cancer drug 27 Feb 04 | Health 30 Jan 04 | Medical notes National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Experts back folic acid in flour Aspirin 'prevents bowel cancer' Drinking at home 'cuts bingeing' MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/health/6646581.stm	BBC NEWS | Health | Cancer therapy cuts side effects Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 11:48 GMT 12:48 UK E-mail this to a friend Cancer therapy cuts side effects Chemotherapy can cause nasty side effects Scientists say they have developed a way to deliver lethal drug doses to tumours without causing side-effects, such as nausea and hair loss. The Australian team has used nanotechnology to create tiny particles which specifically attack cancer cells, but leave healthy tissue unaffected. The particles - or mini-cells - are tagged with anti-cancer antibodies so they zero in on their target. The research features in the journal Cancer Cell. There is no other system where you can get so much drug concentrated into a little parcel It is hoped the technique could treat tumours in the breast, ovaries, colon and lungs. So far it has been used in mice and dogs, and the researchers plan to begin human trials shortly. Traditional chemotherapy typically involves subjecting the patient's entire body to powerful drugs, which can cause a range of severe side-effects. The mini-cells - about one-fifth the size of a normal cell - were created from bacteria cells stripped of their reproductive powers. They were then loaded with cancer drugs, and tagged with antibodies which are attracted to cancerous tumours. Once the cell reaches the cancer, the drug is released directly into the malignant growth. Researcher Jennifer MacDiarmid, from Sydney-based biotechnology company EnGeneIC, said: "There is no other system where you can get so much drug concentrated into a little parcel." In tests, the technique reduced tumours in animals without side effects - and by using only a very small amount of drug. Dr MacDiarmid said the treatment could potentially be used on any solid tumours. She said the technique potentially paved the way for customised drug cocktails for individual patients. Professor Quentin Pankhurst, of the London Centre for Nanotechnology, said: "The concept of targeted drug delivery is something which has been around for a while and there are many different avenues that have been tested. "This one looks like an interesting and promising one. "I particularly like the fact that these mini-cells, as they call them, seem to be swallowed up by the cancer cells and taken inside the cancer cells, because that is inherently a very powerful way to actually deliver the drug - actually into the cell." E-mail this to a friend Genes control chemotherapy impact 11 Apr 07 | Health Hope over 'new generation' drugs 18 May 06 | Health London Centre for Nanotechnology The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Experts back folic acid in flour Aspirin 'prevents bowel cancer' Drinking at home 'cuts bingeing' MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/hi/english/static/in_depth/health/2000/heart_disease/default.stm	BBC News | Health | Heart Disease The UK has one of the highest rates of death from heart disease in the world - one British adult dies from the disease every three minutes - and stroke is the country's third biggest killer, claiming 70,000 lives each year. Heart attacks occur when blood flow is blocked, often by a blood clot, while strokes are caused either by blocked or burst blood vessels in the brain. A range of other conditions, including heart failure, when blood is not pumped properly around the body, and congenital heart defects can also cause long term problems, and even death, for sufferers. - The blood returns from the lungs to the upper left chamber of the heart where it is again briefly stored until the atrium fills, before flowing on to the left ventricle. - “Impure” or “blue” blood returning from the atrium enters the heart here, where it is held until the atrium - or chamber - fills up. - This is the most powerful chamber of the heart. It pumps the newly oxygenated blood to the rest of the body through the aorta, or main artery. - This powerful pump propels blood into the pulmonary artery, the tube which carries blood to the lungs, where carbon dioxide in the blood is removed and oxygen added.
http://www.bbc.co.uk/syndication/	BBC Headlines for your site Put the latest headlines on your website, free of charge. Whether you are an experienced webmaster, or running a website for friends and family, adding a BBC News, BBC Sport, or CBBC Headline Box is simple with our four-step process, which you can complete online. Are you eligible to sign-up? The BBC Headline Boxes are available to all public access (no intranets), UK-based sites, subject to certain criteria. Click to read the criteria. If you then wish to apply, click the 'Sign up here' button. BBC News makes most of its news sections avalable in two XML formats - RSS and BBC News XML. If you would like to discuss either of these options with a Business Development manager, please complete the form below. Please select from the options below Please enter any additional information: Please enter your e-mail address: I would like to report a problem I would like to discuss RSS/XML Privacy & Cookies Policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/health/4121411.stm	BBC NEWS | Health | Pregnancy timeline Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Thursday, 23 December, 2004, 13:42 GMT E-mail this to a friend Fertilisation occurs and a ball of quickly multiplying cells embeds itself in the lining of the uterus. In the UK pregnancy is calculated from the first day of the woman's last period so for as much as three weeks of this first month she might not be actually pregnant. When fertilisation does occur the tiny mass of cells called a blastocyst at this stage embeds itself in the lining of the womb which is already thickening to support it. The mass of cells is developing fast and becomes an embryo. For many women the first sign of pregnancy is a missed period. Shopbought tests are considered largely reliable so the mother-to-be does not have to have her pregnancy confirmed by her GP. If a first test is negative a second one a few days later may prove positive as hormone levels in the urine rise. The embryo officially becomes a foetus. It is about the size of a baked bean and its spine and nervous system begin to form. The foetus already has its own blood system and may be a different blood group from its mother. Blood vessels are forming in what will become the umbilical cord and tiny buds which will become limbs appear. The baby&acute;s heart is beginning to develop. Morning sickness and other side effects of early pregnancy may take hold. Around this time many women find they experience the side-effects of early pregnancy including needing to urinate more often nausea and vomiting and feeling a bit weepy and irritable. All medication including supplements need to be carefully checked as the foetus is undergoing vital development in the first 12 weeks. If the woman has not told her GP or community midwife she is pregnant yet now is a good time to do so. It is quite common to have a first scan at this stage if the woman has had a previous miscarriage or bleeding. An early scan is often done through the vagina and is used to check the pregnancy is not ectopic. It should show up the baby&acute;s heartbeat. The nervous system is also developing rapidly especially the brain. The head gets bigger and eyes form under the skin of the face. The foetus' limbs are growing and look more like arms and legs. All internal organs are developing and becoming more complex. The foetus is about 5cm long with its head tucked onto its chest. It has most its major organs and eyes and ears are developing. A scan at 10-13 weeks is recommended to pin down the date of the pregnancy. The umbilical cord is fully formed providing nourishment and removing waste products. The foetus looks fully human now. By this week the threat of miscarriage is much reduced. Many women announce their pregnancy to friends and colleagues. The foetus is growing in length much more quickly by now it is about eight cm long and weighs about 60 grams. The placenta is now wellformed though it's not yet doing its full job it takes over fully in week 14. The mother is likely to have her first scan this week. The womans uterus is becoming larger and is starting to rise out of the pelvis. The foetus can move its head quite easily. Third of the way through. The average pregnancy lasts 266 days or 280 days from the first day of last period. Screening for Downs syndrome is offered about now. A simple blood test is carried out first then further tests may be offered. On the basis of the blood test results the woman may opt for a Chorionic Villus sample or an amniocentesis which would diagnose or other chromosomal abnormalities. However these diagnostic tests have a small risk of subsequent miscarriage. An alternative to blood tests is a nuchal translucency scan a new scan offered by some larger hospitals. But again an amniocentisis would be required for firm diagnosis. The foetus now has toe and finger nails eyebrows and eyelashes. It is also covered with downy hair. The hair that will cover the baby until the last week or so of pregnancy - called lanugo - starts to form. This hair is very fine more like down and it probably serves as some form of insulation and protection for the skin. The foetus can hear noises from the outside world. By this stage the mother is visibly pregnant and the uterus is rising. By this stage the foetus is moving around a lot - probably enough to be felt. The foetus is now about 15-20cm long and weighs about 300g. Milk teeth have formed in the gums. Half way through pregnancy now. Almost all mothers are offered a routine scan. The foetus develops a waxy coating called vernix. The scan can show the foetus in fine detail and often reveal if the baby is a boy or a girl. However not all hospitals offer to tell parents the sex of the child - and not all parents want to know. The mother may feel short of breath as her uterus pushes against her diaphragm leaving less space for the lungs. The mother may be offered another ultrasound scan around this time. The scan can check the baby&acute;s spine internal organs and growth are normal. Senses develop: taste buds have started to form on the tongue and the foetus starts to feel touch. The skeleton continues to develop and bones that form the skull begin to harden - but not fully. Antenatal checkup and scan to check the baby&acute;s position. A baby born this early does sometimes survive. A baby born at 24 weeks may possibly survive but it would have severe breathing difficulties as its lungs would not be strong enough to cope. It would also be very thin lightweight and susceptible to infections. All organs are now in place and the rest of the pregnancy is for growth. Preeclampsia is a risk from here onwards. This potentially fatal condition causes high blood pressure protein in the urine and swelling caused by fluid retention. The causes are unclear but research suggests it may be linked to an immune reaction to the foetus or the placenta. If the condition is serious women may be advised to take drugs to lower their blood pressure and in some cases an early caesarean or induction may be performed. Serious complications of pregnancy The foetus skin is gradually becoming more opaque than transparent. The foetus measures about 34cm and weighs about 800g. Routine checkup to test for preeclampsia. Women with Rhesus negative blood will also be tested for antibodies. If the mother has Rh negative blood but the baby is Rh positive she can develop antibodies to her baby&acute;s blood during labour. This is not a problem in the first birth but can affect subsequent pregnancies and result in stillbirth. Fortunately treatment is simple and effective. BBC Health: Ask the doctor - Rhesus disease Some women develop restless leg syndrome in their third trimester. This is sensations such as crawling tingling or even cramps and burning inside the foot or leg - often in the evening and at night disturbing sleep and making the mother feel she needs to get up and walk around. No-one knows what causes this harmless but irritating condition. Braxton Hicks contractions may begin around now. They are practice contractions which dont usually hurt. These are irregular, painless contractions which feel like a squeezing sensation near the top of the uterus. If contractions become painful or occur four times an hour or more, the woman should call a doctor as she may be in early labour. The foetus can see now and tell light from dark. The mother&acute;s breasts start to produce colostrum about now This high calorie milk is produced by the mother to feed the baby for the first few days after birth before normal milk starts. Another antenatal appointment. The foetus is about 42cm and weighs 2.2kg. A baby born now has a good chance of survival. From now the baby should become settled in a head downwards position. A midwife can help to move it if necessary. The mother may find it more difficult to eat full meals as the expanded uterus presses on her stomach. If the mother has been told she may need a planned caesarean, now is a good time to discuss it further. The baby&acute;s head may engage in the pelvis any time now. The baby&acute;s lungs are practically mature now and it can survive unaided. The final weeks in the womb are to put on weight. Babies born from this week onward are not considered early. Another ante-natal appointment. The mother has reached her full size and weight by now. In theory the baby should be born this week. The mother&acute;s cervix prepares for the birth by softening. First babies are often up to a week late but if there are signs of distress to mother or child the birth will be induced. E-mail this to a friend A week by week guide to what happens to mother and baby during pregnancy Nine months: An overview Experts back folic acid in flour Aspirin 'prevents bowel cancer' Drinking at home 'cuts bingeing' Week at a Glance Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/northern_ireland/6645479.stm	BBC NEWS | Northern Ireland | Baby unit 'to re-open next week' Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 17:42 GMT 18:42 UK E-mail this to a friend Baby unit 'to re-open next week' The neonatal unit treats the sickest babies in Northern Ireland A consultant at the neonatal unit in Belfast where three premature babies picked up an infection said it hopes to resume admissions next week. The Royal Maternity Hospital closed the unit temporarily to new admissions after the babies became seriously ill. The ward has now been chemically decontaminated. Health Minister Michael McGimpsey said eliminating infections in hospitals was a priority. Dr Stanley Craig said the babies were responding well to antibiotics. "Any infection when you're particularly compromised, as a pre-term baby is, is potentially life-threatening," he said. "These babies are responding to the antibiotics that they're on, which is good news for the babies themselves, their parents and the staff involved in their care. The hospital hopes to re-open the unit next week "Being born premature does leave you very vulnerable to infection and it can be a problem, but we're seeing encouraging signs." The babies, who picked up a multi-resistant enterobacter infection, have been isolated and are being closely monitored by specially trained nurses. The health minister said the situation was not acceptable and pointed out there had been much investment in the area of patient safety. "It is one of the issues that we look at ...and it's one of the areas I take very, very seriously," said Mr McGimpsey. "Obviously when people go to hospital they expect not to pick up infection, when they're there. There is an incidence of infections in hospitals and we look to eliminate that because whatever the incidence is, it is ... too high." Iris Robinson of the DUP said she was concerned about the impact on other hospitals. "What I am particularly concerned about is how the other hospitals across the province are going to deal with demand while the Royal's neonatal unit is out of operation," she said. "Usually the most unwell babies from all around Northern Ireland would be transferred to the specialist unit in Belfast. "Obviously this will not be the case for the immediate future, and these cases will have to be managed in their local units." E-mail this to a friend VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS Dot Kirby reports on the units closure Royal Hospitals maternity unit The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites TOP NORTHERN IRELAND STORIES Sanchez resigning as NI manager Police renew city murder appeal Man is arrested over pub shooting MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Google searches web's dark side Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Gang members get life for murder Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/health/6644293.stm	BBC NEWS | Health | Call for mental heath care push Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 07:27 GMT 08:27 UK E-mail this to a friend Call for mental heath care push Most mental health treatment takes place out of hospitals Mental health services must renew their efforts to improve community care, the mental health tsar says. Professor Louis Appleby has called on NHS trusts to look at new ways of working to help people rebuild lives. He said they should look to work more closely with employment and housing agencies and cut waiting lists for talking therapies in England. Campaigners said there was a lot of work to do to ensure services were good enough for patients. In the last eight years, there has been a big push to move care out of hospitals and into the community. With units and day centres closing and community services cut, the more seriously ill are still being neglected and put at risk Marjorie Wallace, of Sane There are now more than 700 community teams, including nurses, doctors and social workers, providing a range of crisis help and early intervention. However, the Healthcare Commission last year criticised services, pointing to gaps in out-of-hours care, talking therapies and access to information. Nearly half of services were rated as fair or weak. Professor Appleby said the report was about the next phase of reform of mental health care. He told BBC News: "We've had several years of strengthening what community services do, and the report is about breaking down the barriers in the next stage of reforms. "I'm talking about barriers that get in the way of better patients' experience of care "At the moment, for example, there is a barrier between what health services traditionally do, which is clinical care, improving people's illnesses, abolishing their symptoms. "But what patients often tell us they want is help with quality of life. They want opportunities for training, for jobs, and for decent housing, and we have to take on that responsibility." His report called on the 60 mental heath trusts to consult with their local populations about what they needed. The report said mental health trusts should look at ways they could link up with agencies responsible for housing and employment. It also called for community teams to get involved in giving people more advice on how to reduce alcohol and drug use and look after their physical health. He also called for a renewed effort to reduce waiting lists for talking therapies such as cognitive behavioural therapy, which sometimes has waits of over 12 months. The NHS is currently rolling out a programme of providing people with access to computerised CBT and the government has set up 10 pilots to explore ways of speeding up access to talking therapies. Marjorie Wallace, chief executive of the mental health charity Sane, said extra investment was needed. "We are all too aware that with units and day centres closing and community services cut, the more seriously ill are still being neglected and put at risk. "The government goes forward with its policy of reform and choice, but there are thousands who have no choice of where to go in crisis and little chance of rehabilitation or safe, consistent care, both in or out of hospital." E-mail this to a friend Firms urged to help mentally ill Mental health wards 'unpleasant' Mental health services 'failing' Young 'failed' on mental health Fear over health of mentally ill 'My company helped me recover' 'The services were just not there' 'I'm so glad I didn't kill myself' 'I have washed my hands of NHS' 'I learned to live with voices' Kicking depression into touch The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Experts back folic acid in flour Aspirin 'prevents bowel cancer' Drinking at home 'cuts bingeing' MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Google searches web's dark side Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Gang members get life for murder Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/health/3444635.stm	BBC NEWS | Health | Cancer: The facts Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 30 January 2004, 11:57 GMT E-mail this to a friend One in three of us will be diagnosed with cancer during our life. The disease tends to affect older people - but can strike at any time. Excluding certain skin cancers, there were more than 270,000 new cases of the disease in 2001 - and the rate is increasing by about 1% a year. Some cancer, such as breast, are becoming more common, while new cases of lung cancer fall away due to the drop in the number of smokers. However, while the overall number of new cancers is not falling, the good news is that successful treatment rates for many of the most common types are improving rapidly. BBC News Online has produced, in conjunction with Cancer Research UK, a guide to some of the most common forms of cancer and the treatments used to tackle them. To learn more about different types of cancer, and to read the experiences of patients, click on the links to the right. E-mail this to a friend Cancer - the facts Cervical and Uterine Cancers National Cancer Research Institute The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Experts back folic acid in flour Aspirin 'prevents bowel cancer' Drinking at home 'cuts bingeing' Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/health/6648059.stm	BBC NEWS | Health | Experts back folic acid in flour Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 17:03 GMT 18:03 UK E-mail this to a friend Experts back folic acid in flour Under the plan, all bread would be made with folic acid-fortified flour The UK's official food watchdog is backing the mandatory fortification of flour with folic acid to reduce birth defects such as spina bifida. The proposal will go before the board of the Food Standards Agency next week for ratification. If passed, ministers will then decide whether to press ahead. Scientific research shows that folic acid significantly cuts the risk of neural tube defects, which affect up to 900 pregnancies a year in the UK. However, there is concern that adding the vitamin to flour could harm some elderly patients, as it could mask a deficiency in the B12 vitamin. Up to 10% of those aged 65 and older have borderline B12 levels and could tip into deficiency. In extreme cases, this can cause irreversible damage to the nervous system. The recommendation to the FSA board suggests that products containing folic acid at nutritionally significant levels should be clearly labelled. It also argues that mandatory fortification should be accompanied by new controls on the voluntary addition of folic acid to other products, such as breakfast cereals and low-fat spreads, and on the use of folic acid supplements. A system for monitoring the health impact of fortification would also be needed. Wholemeal flour would be exempt from fortification in order to give consumers more choice. The FSA already advises women to eat extra folic acid when trying to get pregnant. However, research suggests that only half of such women adhere to this advice. Also, up to half of pregnancies are unplanned, meaning women may miss the opportunity. Each year between 500 and 600 babies in the UK are reported to have neural tube defects. It is thought many of the other affected pregnancies are terminated. Mandatory fortification has already been introduced in the USA, Canada and Chile, where it cut NTD rates by between 27% and 50%. A panel of UK experts, the Scientific Advisory Committee on Nutrition (SACN), last year backed mandatory fortification of flour. SACN found no evidence that vitamin B12 deficiency was masked in older people, provided folic acid doses were 1mg a day or less. An FSA consultation on the issue drew 202 responses from industry, consumer groups and individuals. The baking industry raised "practical concerns" about the fortification of bread. It said bread-making flour couldn't easily be separated from other flours in mills. E-mail this to a friend Folic acid 'should be in flour' 12 Dec 06 | Health Folic acid boosts IVF twin births 05 May 06 | Health Folic acid 'cuts dementia risk' 15 Aug 05 | Health Push to add folic acid to bread 05 Apr 06 | Health Association for Spina Bifida and Hydrocephalus Scientific Advisory Committee of Nutrition The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Experts back folic acid in flour Aspirin 'prevents bowel cancer' Drinking at home 'cuts bingeing' MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Google searches web's dark side Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Gang members get life for murder Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/education/6641811.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Toddlers to get help with talking Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Thursday, 10 May 2007, 10:28 GMT 11:28 UK E-mail this to a friend Toddlers to get help with talking One in 10 children have a communication disability Toddlers are to get help learning how to talk in a bid to cut the numbers of children starting school with poor language skills for their age. Half of children enter primary school unable to speak as well as they are expected to, research suggests. The Early Talk programme which uses gestures, symbols and signing to expand vocabulary, is being piloted in 200 government-backed children's centres. It will also be used to target youngsters with potential difficulties. Television doesn't respond well to children. ICAN head of Early Years Clare Geldard, head of Early Years for the charity behind the programme, I CAN, said there were concerns that the number of pre-school children with speech and language difficulties was on the rise. "We don't know why this is the case and I am sure there are a myriad of reasons. "We know that television can be used in a really productive way in terms of watching a piece of television and then having a conversation about it afterwards, but we also know that television doesn't respond well to children. "It does not give them the interactivity that children and adults instinctively seek from adults." She said the Early Talk programme was about ensuring that nursery staff, childminders and parents had the basic skills they needed to enhance children's speech, language and communication. "Everybody needs to have a basic knowledge about what we can do to enhance children's speech and language development," she said. But it was also about ensuring that those children who had the potential to go on to develop speech and language difficulties were picked up early and given the help they need. I CAN's chief executive Virginia Beardshaw said one in 10 children across the UK were thought to have a communication disability. She added that the Early Talk programme, which will ultimately be rolled out to 3,000 Sure Start children's centres, would foster environments "where communication is embedded". This would range from using pictures, symbols and gestures to teach vocabulary to using group work and specialist help from speech and language therapists, she said. Children's minister Beverley Hughes said: "Communication is a vital skill in life and we want to help all children communicate better and reap the rewards of that later in life. "This is especially important for children who have trouble communicating - particularly those with a communication disability - who are much more likely to develop behavioural and learning problems." She said she hoped the partnership being announced would play a vital role in identifying children's difficulties at an early stage. Nursery and children's centre staff will be given training and packages of support to help ensure children's language skills are polished and it is hoped this will be passed on to parents and children's carers. E-mail this to a friend Communication skills 'cut re-offending' 05 May 07 | Health 'Double blow' for autistic pupils 16 Apr 07 | Education Autism 'more common than thought' 13 Jul 06 | Health 'Two languages' call for children 21 Feb 07 | Edinburgh and East The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows City teachers could get more cash MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Google searches web's dark side Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Gang members get life for murder Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/health/6646581.stm	BBC NEWS | Health | Cancer therapy cuts side effects Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 11:48 GMT 12:48 UK E-mail this to a friend Cancer therapy cuts side effects Chemotherapy can cause nasty side effects Scientists say they have developed a way to deliver lethal drug doses to tumours without causing side-effects, such as nausea and hair loss. The Australian team has used nanotechnology to create tiny particles which specifically attack cancer cells, but leave healthy tissue unaffected. The particles - or mini-cells - are tagged with anti-cancer antibodies so they zero in on their target. The research features in the journal Cancer Cell. There is no other system where you can get so much drug concentrated into a little parcel It is hoped the technique could treat tumours in the breast, ovaries, colon and lungs. So far it has been used in mice and dogs, and the researchers plan to begin human trials shortly. Traditional chemotherapy typically involves subjecting the patient's entire body to powerful drugs, which can cause a range of severe side-effects. The mini-cells - about one-fifth the size of a normal cell - were created from bacteria cells stripped of their reproductive powers. They were then loaded with cancer drugs, and tagged with antibodies which are attracted to cancerous tumours. Once the cell reaches the cancer, the drug is released directly into the malignant growth. Researcher Jennifer MacDiarmid, from Sydney-based biotechnology company EnGeneIC, said: "There is no other system where you can get so much drug concentrated into a little parcel." In tests, the technique reduced tumours in animals without side effects - and by using only a very small amount of drug. Dr MacDiarmid said the treatment could potentially be used on any solid tumours. She said the technique potentially paved the way for customised drug cocktails for individual patients. Professor Quentin Pankhurst, of the London Centre for Nanotechnology, said: "The concept of targeted drug delivery is something which has been around for a while and there are many different avenues that have been tested. "This one looks like an interesting and promising one. "I particularly like the fact that these mini-cells, as they call them, seem to be swallowed up by the cancer cells and taken inside the cancer cells, because that is inherently a very powerful way to actually deliver the drug - actually into the cell." E-mail this to a friend Genes control chemotherapy impact 11 Apr 07 | Health Hope over 'new generation' drugs 18 May 06 | Health London Centre for Nanotechnology The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Healthcare top priority for Brown 'Half' unaware of smoke ban date Surgeons warn on salon treatments MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW A pygmy conference in the rainforest Underground search for 'God particle' Google searches web's dark side Zimbabwe to chair major UN body Hero's return for Knox-Johnston Most popular now, in detail New plea on Madeleine's birthday Thatcher unveils Falklands arch Woman destroyed her unborn baby Eurovision's other 'Terry Wogans' Coalition troops missing in Iraq Most popular now, in detail Estonia's statue row: Hand of Moscow or sure vote-winner? Pygmies hold a conference in Congo's tropical rainforest We meet Eurovision commentators from around the continent Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/health/6646581.stm	BBC NEWS | Health | Cancer therapy cuts side effects Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 11:48 GMT 12:48 UK E-mail this to a friend Cancer therapy cuts side effects Chemotherapy can cause nasty side effects Scientists say they have developed a way to deliver lethal drug doses to tumours without causing side-effects, such as nausea and hair loss. The Australian team has used nanotechnology to create tiny particles which specifically attack cancer cells, but leave healthy tissue unaffected. The particles - or mini-cells - are tagged with anti-cancer antibodies so they zero in on their target. The research features in the journal Cancer Cell. There is no other system where you can get so much drug concentrated into a little parcel It is hoped the technique could treat tumours in the breast, ovaries, colon and lungs. So far it has been used in mice and dogs, and the researchers plan to begin human trials shortly. Traditional chemotherapy typically involves subjecting the patient's entire body to powerful drugs, which can cause a range of severe side-effects. The mini-cells - about one-fifth the size of a normal cell - were created from bacteria cells stripped of their reproductive powers. They were then loaded with cancer drugs, and tagged with antibodies which are attracted to cancerous tumours. Once the cell reaches the cancer, the drug is released directly into the malignant growth. Researcher Jennifer MacDiarmid, from Sydney-based biotechnology company EnGeneIC, said: "There is no other system where you can get so much drug concentrated into a little parcel." In tests, the technique reduced tumours in animals without side effects - and by using only a very small amount of drug. Dr MacDiarmid said the treatment could potentially be used on any solid tumours. She said the technique potentially paved the way for customised drug cocktails for individual patients. Professor Quentin Pankhurst, of the London Centre for Nanotechnology, said: "The concept of targeted drug delivery is something which has been around for a while and there are many different avenues that have been tested. "This one looks like an interesting and promising one. "I particularly like the fact that these mini-cells, as they call them, seem to be swallowed up by the cancer cells and taken inside the cancer cells, because that is inherently a very powerful way to actually deliver the drug - actually into the cell." E-mail this to a friend Genes control chemotherapy impact 11 Apr 07 | Health Hope over 'new generation' drugs 18 May 06 | Health London Centre for Nanotechnology The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Healthcare top priority for Brown 'Half' unaware of smoke ban date Surgeons warn on salon treatments MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW A pygmy conference in the rainforest Underground search for 'God particle' Google searches web's dark side Zimbabwe to chair major UN body Hero's return for Knox-Johnston Most popular now, in detail New plea on Madeleine's birthday Thatcher unveils Falklands arch Woman destroyed her unborn baby Eurovision's other 'Terry Wogans' Coalition troops missing in Iraq Most popular now, in detail Estonia's statue row: Hand of Moscow or sure vote-winner? Pygmies hold a conference in Congo's tropical rainforest We meet Eurovision commentators from around the continent Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/england/essex/6644841.stm	BBC NEWS | England | Essex | Gynaecologist lacked op consent Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Thursday, 10 May 2007, 20:02 GMT 21:02 UK E-mail this to a friend Gynaecologist lacked op consent The General Medical Council said the case was "wholly exceptional" A gynaecologist who failed to obtain consent from a woman for an operation which left her unable to have sex has not been struck off. The General Medical Council (GMC) ruled it had been an "exceptional" case that saw Essex-based Dr June Swinhoe fail in her practise. Marian Howland, 52, from Epping, had not been made aware of risks linked to her operation for a prolapse in 2003. The GMC panel ruled Dr Swinhoe posed no risk to patients. In March 2003, Dr Swinhoe was working as a consultant gynaecologist at King George Hospital in Ilford and privately at Holly House Hospital in Buckhurst Hill. I have lost a lot of my life and all unnecessarily Mrs Howland had been married for eight years when she visited Dr Swinhoe with a prolapse and discomfort during sex. She told the panel she was admitted for the prolapse to be repaired but was not informed of all the side effects or of any risks associated with the procedures. Dr Swinhoe had not taken a full medical history from Mrs Howland who had previously had a hysterectomy, her ovaries removed and become blind in one eye. In tears, Mrs Howland told the panel a few weeks after the operation it became clear she had been left unable to have sex, and had been left "shell-shocked". She added: "I have lost my best friend, my husband, my lover. "I have lost a lot of my life and all unnecessarily." The panel told Dr Swinhoe: "The deficiencies in your communication with Mrs Howland and your failure to obtain consent from her were an aberration and amount to an isolated departure from your usual high standards of professional competence and care. "The finding that your fitness is impaired is, in itself, a very significant mark on your record. "You have learned from this distressing experience. "This is a wholly exceptional case and in the circumstances the panel is satisfied that it is fair, proportionate and sufficient to conclude the case without taking any action in respect of your registration." E-mail this to a friend Sport, travel, leisure and more from the BBC website for Essex Fatal crash closes stretch of M25 New lead over Oliver pub robbery Four arrested in drugs house raid MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW A pygmy conference in the rainforest Underground search for 'God particle' Zimbabwe to chair major UN body Hero's return for Knox-Johnston Google searches web's dark side Most popular now, in detail New plea on Madeleine's birthday Thatcher unveils Falklands arch Woman destroyed her unborn baby Eurovision's other 'Terry Wogans' Coalition troops missing in Iraq Most popular now, in detail Estonia's statue row: Hand of Moscow or sure vote-winner? Pygmies hold a conference in Congo's tropical rainforest We meet Eurovision commentators from around the continent Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/england/essex/6644841.stm	BBC NEWS | England | Essex | Gynaecologist lacked op consent Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Thursday, 10 May 2007, 20:02 GMT 21:02 UK E-mail this to a friend Gynaecologist lacked op consent The General Medical Council said the case was "wholly exceptional" A gynaecologist who failed to obtain consent from a woman for an operation which left her unable to have sex has not been struck off. The General Medical Council (GMC) ruled it had been an "exceptional" case that saw Essex-based Dr June Swinhoe fail in her practise. Marian Howland, 52, from Epping, had not been made aware of risks linked to her operation for a prolapse in 2003. The GMC panel ruled Dr Swinhoe posed no risk to patients. In March 2003, Dr Swinhoe was working as a consultant gynaecologist at King George Hospital in Ilford and privately at Holly House Hospital in Buckhurst Hill. I have lost a lot of my life and all unnecessarily Mrs Howland had been married for eight years when she visited Dr Swinhoe with a prolapse and discomfort during sex. She told the panel she was admitted for the prolapse to be repaired but was not informed of all the side effects or of any risks associated with the procedures. Dr Swinhoe had not taken a full medical history from Mrs Howland who had previously had a hysterectomy, her ovaries removed and become blind in one eye. In tears, Mrs Howland told the panel a few weeks after the operation it became clear she had been left unable to have sex, and had been left "shell-shocked". She added: "I have lost my best friend, my husband, my lover. "I have lost a lot of my life and all unnecessarily." The panel told Dr Swinhoe: "The deficiencies in your communication with Mrs Howland and your failure to obtain consent from her were an aberration and amount to an isolated departure from your usual high standards of professional competence and care. "The finding that your fitness is impaired is, in itself, a very significant mark on your record. "You have learned from this distressing experience. "This is a wholly exceptional case and in the circumstances the panel is satisfied that it is fair, proportionate and sufficient to conclude the case without taking any action in respect of your registration." E-mail this to a friend Sport, travel, leisure and more from the BBC website for Essex Fatal crash closes stretch of M25 New lead over Oliver pub robbery Four arrested in drugs house raid MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW A pygmy conference in the rainforest Underground search for 'God particle' Zimbabwe to chair major UN body Hero's return for Knox-Johnston Google searches web's dark side Most popular now, in detail New plea on Madeleine's birthday Thatcher unveils Falklands arch Woman destroyed her unborn baby Eurovision's other 'Terry Wogans' Coalition troops missing in Iraq Most popular now, in detail Estonia's statue row: Hand of Moscow or sure vote-winner? Pygmies hold a conference in Congo's tropical rainforest We meet Eurovision commentators from around the continent Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/health/6639461.stm	BBC NEWS | Health | Oral sex linked to throat cancer Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Thursday, 10 May 2007, 07:40 GMT 08:40 UK E-mail this to a friend Oral sex linked to throat cancer Scientists looked at tissue samples from patients A virus contracted through oral sex is the cause of some throat cancers, say US scientists. HPV infection was found to be a much stronger risk factor than tobacco or alcohol use, the Johns Hopkins University study of 300 people found. The New England Journal of Medicine study said the risk was almost nine times higher for people who reported oral sex with more than six partners. But experts said a larger study was needed to confirm the findings. HPV infection is the cause of the majority of cervical cancers, and 80% of sexually active women can expect to have an HPV infection at some point in their lives. It is important for health care providers to know that people without the traditional risk factors of tobacco and alcohol use can nevertheless be at risk of oropharyngeal cancer Dr Gypsyamber D'Souza, study author The Johns Hopkins study took blood and saliva from 100 men and women newly diagnosed with oropharyngeal cancer which affects the throat, tonsils and back of the tongue. They also asked questions about sex practices and other risk factors for the disease, such as family history. Those who had evidence of prior oral HPV infection had a 32-fold increased risk of throat cancer. HPV16 - one of the most common cancer-causing strains of the virus - was present in the tumours of 72% of cancer patients in the study. There was no added risk for people infected with HPV who also smoked and drank alcohol, suggesting the virus itself is driving the risk of the cancer. Oral sex was said to be the main mode of transmission of HPV but the researchers said mouth-to-mouth transmission, for example through kissing, could not be ruled out. Most HPV infections clear with little or no symptoms but a small percentage of people who acquired high-risk strains may develop a cancer, the researchers added. Study author Dr Gypsyamber D'Souza said: "It is important for health care providers to know that people without the traditional risk factors of tobacco and alcohol use can nevertheless be at risk of oropharyngeal cancer." Co-researcher Dr Maura Gillison said previous research by the team had suggested there was a strong link. But she added: "People should be reassured that oropharyngeal cancer is relatively uncommon and the overwhelming majority of people with an oral HPV infection probably will not get throat cancer." A vaccine which protects against cervical cancer caused by HPV strains 6, 11, 16 and 18, and also against genital warts is available and the researchers said the study provided a rationale for vaccinating both girls and boys. But whether the vaccine would protect against oral HPV infection is not yet known. Dr Julie Sharp, science information officer at Cancer Research UK, said: "There is conflicting evidence about the role of HPV, and this rare type of mouth cancer. "As this was a small study, further research is needed to confirm these observations." "We know that after age, the main causes of mouth cancer are smoking or chewing tobacco or betel nut, and drinking too much alcohol." E-mail this to a friend Cancer jab plea for girls aged 11 06 Oct 06 | Health Virus causes most cervical cancer 23 Sep 03 | Health Oral cancer fear for Asians 03 Mar 03 | Health Cervical cancer vaccine success 20 Nov 02 | Health New England Journal of Medicine Johns Hopkins Cancer Center Condom Essential Wear campaign The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Healthcare top priority for Brown 'Half' unaware of smoke ban date Surgeons warn on salon treatments MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW A pygmy conference in the rainforest Underground search for 'God particle' Google searches web's dark side Zimbabwe to chair major UN body Hero's return for Knox-Johnston Most popular now, in detail New plea on Madeleine's birthday Thatcher unveils Falklands arch Woman destroyed her unborn baby Eurovision's other 'Terry Wogans' Coalition troops missing in Iraq Most popular now, in detail Estonia's statue row: Hand of Moscow or sure vote-winner? Pygmies hold a conference in Congo's tropical rainforest We meet Eurovision commentators from around the continent Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/health/6639461.stm	BBC NEWS | Health | Oral sex linked to throat cancer Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Thursday, 10 May 2007, 07:40 GMT 08:40 UK E-mail this to a friend Oral sex linked to throat cancer Scientists looked at tissue samples from patients A virus contracted through oral sex is the cause of some throat cancers, say US scientists. HPV infection was found to be a much stronger risk factor than tobacco or alcohol use, the Johns Hopkins University study of 300 people found. The New England Journal of Medicine study said the risk was almost nine times higher for people who reported oral sex with more than six partners. But experts said a larger study was needed to confirm the findings. HPV infection is the cause of the majority of cervical cancers, and 80% of sexually active women can expect to have an HPV infection at some point in their lives. It is important for health care providers to know that people without the traditional risk factors of tobacco and alcohol use can nevertheless be at risk of oropharyngeal cancer Dr Gypsyamber D'Souza, study author The Johns Hopkins study took blood and saliva from 100 men and women newly diagnosed with oropharyngeal cancer which affects the throat, tonsils and back of the tongue. They also asked questions about sex practices and other risk factors for the disease, such as family history. Those who had evidence of prior oral HPV infection had a 32-fold increased risk of throat cancer. HPV16 - one of the most common cancer-causing strains of the virus - was present in the tumours of 72% of cancer patients in the study. There was no added risk for people infected with HPV who also smoked and drank alcohol, suggesting the virus itself is driving the risk of the cancer. Oral sex was said to be the main mode of transmission of HPV but the researchers said mouth-to-mouth transmission, for example through kissing, could not be ruled out. Most HPV infections clear with little or no symptoms but a small percentage of people who acquired high-risk strains may develop a cancer, the researchers added. Study author Dr Gypsyamber D'Souza said: "It is important for health care providers to know that people without the traditional risk factors of tobacco and alcohol use can nevertheless be at risk of oropharyngeal cancer." Co-researcher Dr Maura Gillison said previous research by the team had suggested there was a strong link. But she added: "People should be reassured that oropharyngeal cancer is relatively uncommon and the overwhelming majority of people with an oral HPV infection probably will not get throat cancer." A vaccine which protects against cervical cancer caused by HPV strains 6, 11, 16 and 18, and also against genital warts is available and the researchers said the study provided a rationale for vaccinating both girls and boys. But whether the vaccine would protect against oral HPV infection is not yet known. Dr Julie Sharp, science information officer at Cancer Research UK, said: "There is conflicting evidence about the role of HPV, and this rare type of mouth cancer. "As this was a small study, further research is needed to confirm these observations." "We know that after age, the main causes of mouth cancer are smoking or chewing tobacco or betel nut, and drinking too much alcohol." E-mail this to a friend Cancer jab plea for girls aged 11 06 Oct 06 | Health Virus causes most cervical cancer 23 Sep 03 | Health Oral cancer fear for Asians 03 Mar 03 | Health Cervical cancer vaccine success 20 Nov 02 | Health New England Journal of Medicine Johns Hopkins Cancer Center Condom Essential Wear campaign The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Healthcare top priority for Brown 'Half' unaware of smoke ban date Surgeons warn on salon treatments MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW A pygmy conference in the rainforest Underground search for 'God particle' Google searches web's dark side Zimbabwe to chair major UN body Hero's return for Knox-Johnston Most popular now, in detail New plea on Madeleine's birthday Thatcher unveils Falklands arch Woman destroyed her unborn baby Eurovision's other 'Terry Wogans' Coalition troops missing in Iraq Most popular now, in detail Estonia's statue row: Hand of Moscow or sure vote-winner? Pygmies hold a conference in Congo's tropical rainforest We meet Eurovision commentators from around the continent Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/england/beds/bucks/herts/6647995.stm	BBC NEWS | England | Beds/Bucks/Herts | Screening as pupils contract TB Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 16:35 GMT 17:35 UK E-mail this to a friend Screening as pupils contract TB Early diagnosis is key to treating TB Pupils and teachers at a junior school are being screened for TB after four pupils tested positive for the disease. A letter was sent to parents of pupils at Southfields Junior School, in Luton, Beds, offering the tests after a pupil displayed symptoms of tuberculosis. Three of his classmates were confirmed to also be in the early stages of the disease, which the Health Protection Agency said is not contracted easily. Luton has three times as many incidents of TB than the national average. The bacteria, which commonly affects the lungs, is on the increase nationally, the Health Protection Agency has said. The affected pupils are being treated with antibiotics and the school has offered the screening as a precaution. E-mail this to a friend BBC Beds Bucks and Herts Travel, leisure, sport, message boards and much more Tuberculosis testing at hospital 11 May 07 | North East/N Isles Tuberculosis cases 'are rising' 22 Mar 07 | Health The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Two men are charged with murder Euthanasia debate rages a year on Screening as pupils contract TB MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW A pygmy conference in the rainforest Underground search for 'God particle' Zimbabwe to chair major UN body Hero's return for Knox-Johnston Google searches web's dark side Most popular now, in detail New plea on Madeleine's birthday Thatcher unveils Falklands arch Woman destroyed her unborn baby Eurovision's other 'Terry Wogans' Coalition troops missing in Iraq Most popular now, in detail Estonia's statue row: Hand of Moscow or sure vote-winner? Pygmies hold a conference in Congo's tropical rainforest We meet Eurovision commentators from around the continent Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/england/beds/bucks/herts/6647995.stm	BBC NEWS | England | Beds/Bucks/Herts | Screening as pupils contract TB Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 16:35 GMT 17:35 UK E-mail this to a friend Screening as pupils contract TB Early diagnosis is key to treating TB Pupils and teachers at a junior school are being screened for TB after four pupils tested positive for the disease. A letter was sent to parents of pupils at Southfields Junior School, in Luton, Beds, offering the tests after a pupil displayed symptoms of tuberculosis. Three of his classmates were confirmed to also be in the early stages of the disease, which the Health Protection Agency said is not contracted easily. Luton has three times as many incidents of TB than the national average. The bacteria, which commonly affects the lungs, is on the increase nationally, the Health Protection Agency has said. The affected pupils are being treated with antibiotics and the school has offered the screening as a precaution. E-mail this to a friend BBC Beds Bucks and Herts Travel, leisure, sport, message boards and much more Tuberculosis testing at hospital 11 May 07 | North East/N Isles Tuberculosis cases 'are rising' 22 Mar 07 | Health The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Two men are charged with murder Euthanasia debate rages a year on Screening as pupils contract TB MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW A pygmy conference in the rainforest Underground search for 'God particle' Zimbabwe to chair major UN body Hero's return for Knox-Johnston Google searches web's dark side Most popular now, in detail New plea on Madeleine's birthday Thatcher unveils Falklands arch Woman destroyed her unborn baby Eurovision's other 'Terry Wogans' Coalition troops missing in Iraq Most popular now, in detail Estonia's statue row: Hand of Moscow or sure vote-winner? Pygmies hold a conference in Congo's tropical rainforest We meet Eurovision commentators from around the continent Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/health/6639461.stm	BBC NEWS | Health | Oral sex linked to throat cancer Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Thursday, 10 May 2007, 07:40 GMT 08:40 UK E-mail this to a friend Oral sex linked to throat cancer Scientists looked at tissue samples from patients A virus contracted through oral sex is the cause of some throat cancers, say US scientists. HPV infection was found to be a much stronger risk factor than tobacco or alcohol use, the Johns Hopkins University study of 300 people found. The New England Journal of Medicine study said the risk was almost nine times higher for people who reported oral sex with more than six partners. But experts said a larger study was needed to confirm the findings. HPV infection is the cause of the majority of cervical cancers, and 80% of sexually active women can expect to have an HPV infection at some point in their lives. It is important for health care providers to know that people without the traditional risk factors of tobacco and alcohol use can nevertheless be at risk of oropharyngeal cancer Dr Gypsyamber D'Souza, study author The Johns Hopkins study took blood and saliva from 100 men and women newly diagnosed with oropharyngeal cancer which affects the throat, tonsils and back of the tongue. They also asked questions about sex practices and other risk factors for the disease, such as family history. Those who had evidence of prior oral HPV infection had a 32-fold increased risk of throat cancer. HPV16 - one of the most common cancer-causing strains of the virus - was present in the tumours of 72% of cancer patients in the study. There was no added risk for people infected with HPV who also smoked and drank alcohol, suggesting the virus itself is driving the risk of the cancer. Oral sex was said to be the main mode of transmission of HPV but the researchers said mouth-to-mouth transmission, for example through kissing, could not be ruled out. Most HPV infections clear with little or no symptoms but a small percentage of people who acquired high-risk strains may develop a cancer, the researchers added. Study author Dr Gypsyamber D'Souza said: "It is important for health care providers to know that people without the traditional risk factors of tobacco and alcohol use can nevertheless be at risk of oropharyngeal cancer." Co-researcher Dr Maura Gillison said previous research by the team had suggested there was a strong link. But she added: "People should be reassured that oropharyngeal cancer is relatively uncommon and the overwhelming majority of people with an oral HPV infection probably will not get throat cancer." A vaccine which protects against cervical cancer caused by HPV strains 6, 11, 16 and 18, and also against genital warts is available and the researchers said the study provided a rationale for vaccinating both girls and boys. But whether the vaccine would protect against oral HPV infection is not yet known. Dr Julie Sharp, science information officer at Cancer Research UK, said: "There is conflicting evidence about the role of HPV, and this rare type of mouth cancer. "As this was a small study, further research is needed to confirm these observations." "We know that after age, the main causes of mouth cancer are smoking or chewing tobacco or betel nut, and drinking too much alcohol." E-mail this to a friend Cancer jab plea for girls aged 11 06 Oct 06 | Health Virus causes most cervical cancer 23 Sep 03 | Health Oral cancer fear for Asians 03 Mar 03 | Health Cervical cancer vaccine success 20 Nov 02 | Health New England Journal of Medicine Johns Hopkins Cancer Center Condom Essential Wear campaign The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Healthcare top priority for Brown 'Half' unaware of smoke ban date Surgeons warn on salon treatments MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW A pygmy conference in the rainforest Underground search for 'God particle' Zimbabwe to chair major UN body Hero's return for Knox-Johnston Google searches web's dark side Most popular now, in detail New plea on Madeleine's birthday Thatcher unveils Falklands arch Woman destroyed her unborn baby Eurovision's other 'Terry Wogans' Coalition troops missing in Iraq Most popular now, in detail Estonia's statue row: Hand of Moscow or sure vote-winner? Pygmies hold a conference in Congo's tropical rainforest We meet Eurovision commentators from around the continent Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/health/6639461.stm	BBC NEWS | Health | Oral sex linked to throat cancer Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Thursday, 10 May 2007, 07:40 GMT 08:40 UK E-mail this to a friend Oral sex linked to throat cancer Scientists looked at tissue samples from patients A virus contracted through oral sex is the cause of some throat cancers, say US scientists. HPV infection was found to be a much stronger risk factor than tobacco or alcohol use, the Johns Hopkins University study of 300 people found. The New England Journal of Medicine study said the risk was almost nine times higher for people who reported oral sex with more than six partners. But experts said a larger study was needed to confirm the findings. HPV infection is the cause of the majority of cervical cancers, and 80% of sexually active women can expect to have an HPV infection at some point in their lives. It is important for health care providers to know that people without the traditional risk factors of tobacco and alcohol use can nevertheless be at risk of oropharyngeal cancer Dr Gypsyamber D'Souza, study author The Johns Hopkins study took blood and saliva from 100 men and women newly diagnosed with oropharyngeal cancer which affects the throat, tonsils and back of the tongue. They also asked questions about sex practices and other risk factors for the disease, such as family history. Those who had evidence of prior oral HPV infection had a 32-fold increased risk of throat cancer. HPV16 - one of the most common cancer-causing strains of the virus - was present in the tumours of 72% of cancer patients in the study. There was no added risk for people infected with HPV who also smoked and drank alcohol, suggesting the virus itself is driving the risk of the cancer. Oral sex was said to be the main mode of transmission of HPV but the researchers said mouth-to-mouth transmission, for example through kissing, could not be ruled out. Most HPV infections clear with little or no symptoms but a small percentage of people who acquired high-risk strains may develop a cancer, the researchers added. Study author Dr Gypsyamber D'Souza said: "It is important for health care providers to know that people without the traditional risk factors of tobacco and alcohol use can nevertheless be at risk of oropharyngeal cancer." Co-researcher Dr Maura Gillison said previous research by the team had suggested there was a strong link. But she added: "People should be reassured that oropharyngeal cancer is relatively uncommon and the overwhelming majority of people with an oral HPV infection probably will not get throat cancer." A vaccine which protects against cervical cancer caused by HPV strains 6, 11, 16 and 18, and also against genital warts is available and the researchers said the study provided a rationale for vaccinating both girls and boys. But whether the vaccine would protect against oral HPV infection is not yet known. Dr Julie Sharp, science information officer at Cancer Research UK, said: "There is conflicting evidence about the role of HPV, and this rare type of mouth cancer. "As this was a small study, further research is needed to confirm these observations." "We know that after age, the main causes of mouth cancer are smoking or chewing tobacco or betel nut, and drinking too much alcohol." E-mail this to a friend Cancer jab plea for girls aged 11 06 Oct 06 | Health Virus causes most cervical cancer 23 Sep 03 | Health Oral cancer fear for Asians 03 Mar 03 | Health Cervical cancer vaccine success 20 Nov 02 | Health New England Journal of Medicine Johns Hopkins Cancer Center Condom Essential Wear campaign The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Healthcare top priority for Brown 'Half' unaware of smoke ban date Surgeons warn on salon treatments MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW A pygmy conference in the rainforest Underground search for 'God particle' Zimbabwe to chair major UN body Hero's return for Knox-Johnston Google searches web's dark side Most popular now, in detail New plea on Madeleine's birthday Thatcher unveils Falklands arch Woman destroyed her unborn baby Eurovision's other 'Terry Wogans' Coalition troops missing in Iraq Most popular now, in detail Estonia's statue row: Hand of Moscow or sure vote-winner? Pygmies hold a conference in Congo's tropical rainforest We meet Eurovision commentators from around the continent Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/hi/english/static/in_depth/health/2000/heart_disease/default.stm	BBC News | Health | Heart Disease The UK has one of the highest rates of death from heart disease in the world - one British adult dies from the disease every three minutes - and stroke is the country's third biggest killer, claiming 70,000 lives each year. Heart attacks occur when blood flow is blocked, often by a blood clot, while strokes are caused either by blocked or burst blood vessels in the brain. A range of other conditions, including heart failure, when blood is not pumped properly around the body, and congenital heart defects can also cause long term problems, and even death, for sufferers. - The blood returns from the lungs to the upper left chamber of the heart where it is again briefly stored until the atrium fills, before flowing on to the left ventricle. - “Impure” or “blue” blood returning from the atrium enters the heart here, where it is held until the atrium - or chamber - fills up. - This is the most powerful chamber of the heart. It pumps the newly oxygenated blood to the rest of the body through the aorta, or main artery. - This powerful pump propels blood into the pulmonary artery, the tube which carries blood to the lungs, where carbon dioxide in the blood is removed and oxygen added.
http://news.bbc.co.uk/hi/english/static/in_depth/health/2000/heart_disease/default.stm	BBC News | Health | Heart Disease The UK has one of the highest rates of death from heart disease in the world - one British adult dies from the disease every three minutes - and stroke is the country's third biggest killer, claiming 70,000 lives each year. Heart attacks occur when blood flow is blocked, often by a blood clot, while strokes are caused either by blocked or burst blood vessels in the brain. A range of other conditions, including heart failure, when blood is not pumped properly around the body, and congenital heart defects can also cause long term problems, and even death, for sufferers. - The blood returns from the lungs to the upper left chamber of the heart where it is again briefly stored until the atrium fills, before flowing on to the left ventricle. - “Impure” or “blue” blood returning from the atrium enters the heart here, where it is held until the atrium - or chamber - fills up. - This is the most powerful chamber of the heart. It pumps the newly oxygenated blood to the rest of the body through the aorta, or main artery. - This powerful pump propels blood into the pulmonary artery, the tube which carries blood to the lungs, where carbon dioxide in the blood is removed and oxygen added.
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/health/6645651.stm	BBC NEWS | Health | Drinking at home 'cuts bingeing' Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 10:14 GMT 11:14 UK E-mail this to a friend Drinking at home 'cuts bingeing' Teenage drinking is a major public health problem Teenagers who drink alcohol with their parents in moderation are less likely to binge drink, research suggests. The study also said that parents who do not want their children to drink behind their backs should limit their pocket money to less than £10 a week. The study, led by Liverpool John Moores University, was based on responses from more than 10,000 15 and 16-year-olds. Almost 90% admitted to drinking alcohol, of which 38% binged, 24% drank frequently and 50% drank in public. Drinking in the home environment, if it is done properly, can teach young people respect for alcohol Liverpool John Moores University The study also found a third of respondents bought their own alcohol, and those that did were six times more likely to drink in public, and twice as likely to binge than those who had alcohol bought for them. Last month the charity Alcohol Concern called for parents who give alcohol to children aged under 15 to be prosecuted following figures suggesting a large increase in alcohol consumption by 11 to 13-year-olds. But the latest study, published in the journal Substance Abuse Treatment, Prevention, and Policy, questions this approach. Lead researcher Dr Mark Bellis said figures suggested that 75% of 14-year-olds had tried alcohol. "The question is: are they learning to drink from their parents in a socially responsible environment, or are they learning behind some bushes in the park, or in a bar where they should not be in the first place? "The chances are if they are in the latter position they are learning to binge drink, they are hiding their drinking, they can't talk to their parents about it. "Drinking in the home environment, if it is done properly, can teach young people respect for alcohol, and how to consume in moderation." Dr Bellis said criminalising a parent for allowing a child to drink was probably not going to help any family. Frank Soodeen, campaigns officer for Alcohol Concern, said the charity had taken its lead from the law, which prohibits under-15s from being served alcohol in public places. He agreed that it was appropriate for parents to allow drinking in the home for older teenagers - but reiterated the charity's view that younger teenagers should not be encouraged to drink. He said: "We agree that parents have a real role to play in raising socially responsible drinkers." The researchers say that increasing the cost of alcohol, and closing down retailers who sell to underage drinkers could help tackle the problem. E-mail this to a friend Call to stop children's drinking 27 Apr 07 | UK Drink campaign 'has wrong focus' 17 Mar 07 | UK Shows 'encourage teen drinking' 10 Mar 07 | Health Call to raise drinking age to 21 15 Apr 07 | Health Liverpool John Moores University Substance Abuse Treatment, Prevention, and Policy The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Healthcare top priority for Brown 'Half' unaware of smoke ban date Surgeons warn on salon treatments MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW A pygmy conference in the rainforest Underground search for 'God particle' Google searches web's dark side Zimbabwe to chair major UN body Hero's return for Knox-Johnston Most popular now, in detail New plea on Madeleine's birthday Thatcher unveils Falklands arch Woman destroyed her unborn baby Eurovision's other 'Terry Wogans' Coalition troops missing in Iraq Most popular now, in detail Estonia's statue row: Hand of Moscow or sure vote-winner? Pygmies hold a conference in Congo's tropical rainforest We meet Eurovision commentators from around the continent Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/health/6645651.stm	BBC NEWS | Health | Drinking at home 'cuts bingeing' Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 10:14 GMT 11:14 UK E-mail this to a friend Drinking at home 'cuts bingeing' Teenage drinking is a major public health problem Teenagers who drink alcohol with their parents in moderation are less likely to binge drink, research suggests. The study also said that parents who do not want their children to drink behind their backs should limit their pocket money to less than £10 a week. The study, led by Liverpool John Moores University, was based on responses from more than 10,000 15 and 16-year-olds. Almost 90% admitted to drinking alcohol, of which 38% binged, 24% drank frequently and 50% drank in public. Drinking in the home environment, if it is done properly, can teach young people respect for alcohol Liverpool John Moores University The study also found a third of respondents bought their own alcohol, and those that did were six times more likely to drink in public, and twice as likely to binge than those who had alcohol bought for them. Last month the charity Alcohol Concern called for parents who give alcohol to children aged under 15 to be prosecuted following figures suggesting a large increase in alcohol consumption by 11 to 13-year-olds. But the latest study, published in the journal Substance Abuse Treatment, Prevention, and Policy, questions this approach. Lead researcher Dr Mark Bellis said figures suggested that 75% of 14-year-olds had tried alcohol. "The question is: are they learning to drink from their parents in a socially responsible environment, or are they learning behind some bushes in the park, or in a bar where they should not be in the first place? "The chances are if they are in the latter position they are learning to binge drink, they are hiding their drinking, they can't talk to their parents about it. "Drinking in the home environment, if it is done properly, can teach young people respect for alcohol, and how to consume in moderation." Dr Bellis said criminalising a parent for allowing a child to drink was probably not going to help any family. Frank Soodeen, campaigns officer for Alcohol Concern, said the charity had taken its lead from the law, which prohibits under-15s from being served alcohol in public places. He agreed that it was appropriate for parents to allow drinking in the home for older teenagers - but reiterated the charity's view that younger teenagers should not be encouraged to drink. He said: "We agree that parents have a real role to play in raising socially responsible drinkers." The researchers say that increasing the cost of alcohol, and closing down retailers who sell to underage drinkers could help tackle the problem. E-mail this to a friend Call to stop children's drinking 27 Apr 07 | UK Drink campaign 'has wrong focus' 17 Mar 07 | UK Shows 'encourage teen drinking' 10 Mar 07 | Health Call to raise drinking age to 21 15 Apr 07 | Health Liverpool John Moores University Substance Abuse Treatment, Prevention, and Policy The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Healthcare top priority for Brown 'Half' unaware of smoke ban date Surgeons warn on salon treatments MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW A pygmy conference in the rainforest Underground search for 'God particle' Google searches web's dark side Zimbabwe to chair major UN body Hero's return for Knox-Johnston Most popular now, in detail New plea on Madeleine's birthday Thatcher unveils Falklands arch Woman destroyed her unborn baby Eurovision's other 'Terry Wogans' Coalition troops missing in Iraq Most popular now, in detail Estonia's statue row: Hand of Moscow or sure vote-winner? Pygmies hold a conference in Congo's tropical rainforest We meet Eurovision commentators from around the continent Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/england/north_yorkshire/6645923.stm	BBC NEWS | England | North Yorkshire | Scientists create 'plastic' blood Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 09:08 GMT 10:08 UK E-mail this to a friend Scientists create 'plastic' blood The researchers said the artificial blood was easier to store Scientists have developed an artificial plastic blood which could act as a substitute in emergencies. Researchers at Sheffield University said their creation could be a huge advantage in war zones. They say that the artificial blood is light to carry, does not need to be kept cool and can be kept for longer. The new blood is made up of plastic molecules that have an iron atom at their core, like haemoglobin, that can carry oxygen through the body. The scientists said the artificial blood could be cheap to produce and they were looking for extra funding to develop a final prototype that would be suitable for biological testing. Dr Lance Twyman, of the university's Department of Chemistry, said: "We are very excited about the potential for this product and about the fact that this could save lives. "Many people die from superficial wounds when they are trapped in an accident or are injured on the battlefield and can't get blood before they get to hospital. "This product can be stored a lot more easily than blood, meaning large quantities could be carried easily by ambulances and the armed forces." A sample of the artificial blood prototype will be on display at the Science Museum in London from 22 May as part of an exhibition about the history of plastics. E-mail this to a friend Sport, travel, leisure and more from the BBC website for South Yorkshire The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites TOP NORTH YORKSHIRE STORIES Policeman jailed over child sex Battlefield homes get green light Allotment produce declared safe MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW A pygmy conference in the rainforest Underground search for 'God particle' Google searches web's dark side Zimbabwe to chair major UN body Hero's return for Knox-Johnston Most popular now, in detail New plea on Madeleine's birthday Thatcher unveils Falklands arch Woman destroyed her unborn baby Eurovision's other 'Terry Wogans' Coalition troops missing in Iraq Most popular now, in detail Estonia's statue row: Hand of Moscow or sure vote-winner? Pygmies hold a conference in Congo's tropical rainforest We meet Eurovision commentators from around the continent Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/england/north_yorkshire/6645923.stm	BBC NEWS | England | North Yorkshire | Scientists create 'plastic' blood Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 09:08 GMT 10:08 UK E-mail this to a friend Scientists create 'plastic' blood The researchers said the artificial blood was easier to store Scientists have developed an artificial plastic blood which could act as a substitute in emergencies. Researchers at Sheffield University said their creation could be a huge advantage in war zones. They say that the artificial blood is light to carry, does not need to be kept cool and can be kept for longer. The new blood is made up of plastic molecules that have an iron atom at their core, like haemoglobin, that can carry oxygen through the body. The scientists said the artificial blood could be cheap to produce and they were looking for extra funding to develop a final prototype that would be suitable for biological testing. Dr Lance Twyman, of the university's Department of Chemistry, said: "We are very excited about the potential for this product and about the fact that this could save lives. "Many people die from superficial wounds when they are trapped in an accident or are injured on the battlefield and can't get blood before they get to hospital. "This product can be stored a lot more easily than blood, meaning large quantities could be carried easily by ambulances and the armed forces." A sample of the artificial blood prototype will be on display at the Science Museum in London from 22 May as part of an exhibition about the history of plastics. E-mail this to a friend Sport, travel, leisure and more from the BBC website for South Yorkshire The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites TOP NORTH YORKSHIRE STORIES Policeman jailed over child sex Battlefield homes get green light Allotment produce declared safe MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW A pygmy conference in the rainforest Underground search for 'God particle' Google searches web's dark side Zimbabwe to chair major UN body Hero's return for Knox-Johnston Most popular now, in detail New plea on Madeleine's birthday Thatcher unveils Falklands arch Woman destroyed her unborn baby Eurovision's other 'Terry Wogans' Coalition troops missing in Iraq Most popular now, in detail Estonia's statue row: Hand of Moscow or sure vote-winner? Pygmies hold a conference in Congo's tropical rainforest We meet Eurovision commentators from around the continent Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/health/6643547.stm	BBC NEWS | Health | Aspirin 'prevents bowel cancer' Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Thursday, 10 May 2007, 23:01 GMT 00:01 UK E-mail this to a friend Aspirin 'prevents bowel cancer' Aspirin could benefit high-risk groups, the study says Taking aspirin each day can prevent bowel cancer developing, a study says. Oxford University researchers said taking a dose of 300mg a day for five years offered the protection. Long-term aspirin use is generally not backed because of the risk of stomach problems, but the team said it could benefit those at high-risk of cancer. Cancer campaigners welcomed the study - published in the Lancet - which examined data from previous research covering more than 7,500 people. These findings are not an indication that the general population should rush out and take what is a high dosage of aspirin on a daily basis. Each year, around 35,000 men and women in the UK are diagnosed with bowel cancer, and more than 16,000 die from the disease. The researchers looked at the results from two large-scale UK trials carried out in the late 1970s and early 1980s covering over 7,500 people which had given some people 300, 500 or 1,200mg per day doses of aspirin or a dummy pill for five to seven years. The people in the study were then followed for up to 20 years, and deaths from bowel cancer were logged. The team say it takes at least 10 years to see an effect, because that is how long it takes for a pre-cancerous growths to develop into cancer. Other studies have examined aspirin's benefits. However, this was the first where people were allocated to take different doses of the drug, or the fake version, rather than looking back at the aspirin use of bowel cancer patients and comparing them with healthy people. High risk group 'benefit' The researchers found that taking 300mg of aspirin - the equivalent of one pill - a day for five years reduced the incidence of bowel cancer by 74% in the subsequent 10 to 15 years. An accompanying review of 30 observational studies suggested taking medium-to-high doses of aspirin for 10 years or more reduced the risk of developing the disease by 50%-70%. The protective effect of aspirin appeared to be consistent regardless of age, sex, race or country of origin. It was also seen in individuals who had a close family relative with bowel cancer, which normally raises the lifetime risk two to four times. Professor Peter Rothwell, who led the research, said: "What we are saying is that for a subgroup of people at high risk of bowel cancer, they probably aren't going to be dramatically harmed by taking aspirin. "They may have some risk of bleeding in the stomach, but they will see potentially significant benefits in the reduction of their colon cancer risk. "In that situation, I think taking aspirin daily would be worthwhile." Dr Andrew Chan, from Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston, writing in the Lancet, said the findings were "convincing evidence" that aspirin can reduce the incidence of bowel cancer. But he added: "With the concerns about the potential risks of long-term aspirin use and the availability of alternative prevention strategies - such as screening - these findings are not sufficient to warrant a recommendation for the general population to use aspirin for cancer prevention." Rob Glynne-Jones, chief medical advisor to the charity Bowel Cancer UK, said: "This is very interesting and it certainly confirms what we already know and believe about the links between aspirin, polyps and the development of bowel cancer. "However, these findings are not an indication that the general population should rush out and take what is a high dosage of aspirin on a daily basis. "Aspirin at this dose over a prolonged period of time could lead to potentially serious side effects in a few people." E-mail this to a friend VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS The study's findings about aspirin and bowel cancer Aspirin 'cuts bowel cancer risk' 23 Aug 05 | Health Aspirin cuts breast cancer risk 26 May 04 | Health Aspirin: A century of good news 26 Jun 02 | Health The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Healthcare top priority for Brown 'Half' unaware of smoke ban date Surgeons warn on salon treatments MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW A pygmy conference in the rainforest Underground search for 'God particle' Google searches web's dark side Zimbabwe to chair major UN body Hero's return for Knox-Johnston Most popular now, in detail New plea on Madeleine's birthday Thatcher unveils Falklands arch Woman destroyed her unborn baby Eurovision's other 'Terry Wogans' Coalition troops missing in Iraq Most popular now, in detail Estonia's statue row: Hand of Moscow or sure vote-winner? Pygmies hold a conference in Congo's tropical rainforest We meet Eurovision commentators from around the continent Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/health/6643547.stm	BBC NEWS | Health | Aspirin 'prevents bowel cancer' Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Thursday, 10 May 2007, 23:01 GMT 00:01 UK E-mail this to a friend Aspirin 'prevents bowel cancer' Aspirin could benefit high-risk groups, the study says Taking aspirin each day can prevent bowel cancer developing, a study says. Oxford University researchers said taking a dose of 300mg a day for five years offered the protection. Long-term aspirin use is generally not backed because of the risk of stomach problems, but the team said it could benefit those at high-risk of cancer. Cancer campaigners welcomed the study - published in the Lancet - which examined data from previous research covering more than 7,500 people. These findings are not an indication that the general population should rush out and take what is a high dosage of aspirin on a daily basis. Each year, around 35,000 men and women in the UK are diagnosed with bowel cancer, and more than 16,000 die from the disease. The researchers looked at the results from two large-scale UK trials carried out in the late 1970s and early 1980s covering over 7,500 people which had given some people 300, 500 or 1,200mg per day doses of aspirin or a dummy pill for five to seven years. The people in the study were then followed for up to 20 years, and deaths from bowel cancer were logged. The team say it takes at least 10 years to see an effect, because that is how long it takes for a pre-cancerous growths to develop into cancer. Other studies have examined aspirin's benefits. However, this was the first where people were allocated to take different doses of the drug, or the fake version, rather than looking back at the aspirin use of bowel cancer patients and comparing them with healthy people. High risk group 'benefit' The researchers found that taking 300mg of aspirin - the equivalent of one pill - a day for five years reduced the incidence of bowel cancer by 74% in the subsequent 10 to 15 years. An accompanying review of 30 observational studies suggested taking medium-to-high doses of aspirin for 10 years or more reduced the risk of developing the disease by 50%-70%. The protective effect of aspirin appeared to be consistent regardless of age, sex, race or country of origin. It was also seen in individuals who had a close family relative with bowel cancer, which normally raises the lifetime risk two to four times. Professor Peter Rothwell, who led the research, said: "What we are saying is that for a subgroup of people at high risk of bowel cancer, they probably aren't going to be dramatically harmed by taking aspirin. "They may have some risk of bleeding in the stomach, but they will see potentially significant benefits in the reduction of their colon cancer risk. "In that situation, I think taking aspirin daily would be worthwhile." Dr Andrew Chan, from Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston, writing in the Lancet, said the findings were "convincing evidence" that aspirin can reduce the incidence of bowel cancer. But he added: "With the concerns about the potential risks of long-term aspirin use and the availability of alternative prevention strategies - such as screening - these findings are not sufficient to warrant a recommendation for the general population to use aspirin for cancer prevention." Rob Glynne-Jones, chief medical advisor to the charity Bowel Cancer UK, said: "This is very interesting and it certainly confirms what we already know and believe about the links between aspirin, polyps and the development of bowel cancer. "However, these findings are not an indication that the general population should rush out and take what is a high dosage of aspirin on a daily basis. "Aspirin at this dose over a prolonged period of time could lead to potentially serious side effects in a few people." E-mail this to a friend VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS The study's findings about aspirin and bowel cancer Aspirin 'cuts bowel cancer risk' 23 Aug 05 | Health Aspirin cuts breast cancer risk 26 May 04 | Health Aspirin: A century of good news 26 Jun 02 | Health The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Healthcare top priority for Brown 'Half' unaware of smoke ban date Surgeons warn on salon treatments MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW A pygmy conference in the rainforest Underground search for 'God particle' Google searches web's dark side Zimbabwe to chair major UN body Hero's return for Knox-Johnston Most popular now, in detail New plea on Madeleine's birthday Thatcher unveils Falklands arch Woman destroyed her unborn baby Eurovision's other 'Terry Wogans' Coalition troops missing in Iraq Most popular now, in detail Estonia's statue row: Hand of Moscow or sure vote-winner? Pygmies hold a conference in Congo's tropical rainforest We meet Eurovision commentators from around the continent Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/uk/6646503.stm	BBC NEWS | UK | Uni may ban exercise ball chairs Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 13:07 GMT 14:07 UK E-mail this to a friend Uni may ban exercise ball chairs The balls are mostly used for exercise but can be used as chairs. University officials are considering whether they should ban physiotherapy lecturers from using large exercise balls as chairs. Physiotherapists at the University of Bath say sitting on the balls while working at a desk encourages good posture and tones core muscles. Their professional body agrees that they are beneficial and carry no risk. But health and safety officials are concerned that the giant inflatables may be dangerous. A spokesman for the university said: "The university's health and safety team are looking into whether the balls meet the university's guidelines on conventional chairs to see if the trial can be allowed to become a permanent situation. We expect the result of this shortly." The balls are often used in gyms and are also known as Swiss balls because they were first used in Switzerland in the 1960s by therapists working with children with cerebral palsy. Physiotherapist Sonya Crowe from the university's Department for Health started a trend when she began using an exercise ball instead of a chair. Ms Crowe, who is the sports physiotherapist for the British beach volleyball team, said: "The balls are firm with a bit of give, so it is not difficult to balance on top of them, but the constant small movements you make whilst sitting at a desk are perfect for strengthening your core muscles. "You also have to sit upright, so they are perfect for improving posture. "In particular, people who suffer from back ache and shoulder pain can really benefit from sitting on an exercise ball instead of a regular office chair." She added: "I have never heard of anyone falling off one of the balls - and the health and safety benefits far outweigh any risks there may be." Ms Crowe's colleague Emily Richards said: "You couldn't miss the fact that Sonya was sat on a big squashy ball instead of an office chair. "A few of us tried it out and could see the benefit immediately. We put in a bulk order and now at least a dozen people around the university have got them." She added: "It seems to have started a real craze, and my husband has now got one at his work to help his bad back." The Chartered Society of Physiotherapy said there was no risk if the balls were used properly. One sports website warns that jewellery and belt buckles could burst the ball but says that most are made to deflate slowly rather than explode. The Health and Safety Executive said it was up to individual employers to decide how to meet their legal obligation to protect their staff. E-mail this to a friend The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Healthcare top priority for Brown Plea on Madeleine's birthday Reid urges human rights shake-up MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW A pygmy conference in the rainforest Underground search for 'God particle' Zimbabwe to chair major UN body Hero's return for Knox-Johnston Google searches web's dark side Most popular now, in detail New plea on Madeleine's birthday Thatcher unveils Falklands arch Woman destroyed her unborn baby Eurovision's other 'Terry Wogans' Coalition troops missing in Iraq Most popular now, in detail Estonia's statue row: Hand of Moscow or sure vote-winner? Pygmies hold a conference in Congo's tropical rainforest We meet Eurovision commentators from around the continent Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/uk/6646503.stm	BBC NEWS | UK | Uni may ban exercise ball chairs Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 13:07 GMT 14:07 UK E-mail this to a friend Uni may ban exercise ball chairs The balls are mostly used for exercise but can be used as chairs. University officials are considering whether they should ban physiotherapy lecturers from using large exercise balls as chairs. Physiotherapists at the University of Bath say sitting on the balls while working at a desk encourages good posture and tones core muscles. Their professional body agrees that they are beneficial and carry no risk. But health and safety officials are concerned that the giant inflatables may be dangerous. A spokesman for the university said: "The university's health and safety team are looking into whether the balls meet the university's guidelines on conventional chairs to see if the trial can be allowed to become a permanent situation. We expect the result of this shortly." The balls are often used in gyms and are also known as Swiss balls because they were first used in Switzerland in the 1960s by therapists working with children with cerebral palsy. Physiotherapist Sonya Crowe from the university's Department for Health started a trend when she began using an exercise ball instead of a chair. Ms Crowe, who is the sports physiotherapist for the British beach volleyball team, said: "The balls are firm with a bit of give, so it is not difficult to balance on top of them, but the constant small movements you make whilst sitting at a desk are perfect for strengthening your core muscles. "You also have to sit upright, so they are perfect for improving posture. "In particular, people who suffer from back ache and shoulder pain can really benefit from sitting on an exercise ball instead of a regular office chair." She added: "I have never heard of anyone falling off one of the balls - and the health and safety benefits far outweigh any risks there may be." Ms Crowe's colleague Emily Richards said: "You couldn't miss the fact that Sonya was sat on a big squashy ball instead of an office chair. "A few of us tried it out and could see the benefit immediately. We put in a bulk order and now at least a dozen people around the university have got them." She added: "It seems to have started a real craze, and my husband has now got one at his work to help his bad back." The Chartered Society of Physiotherapy said there was no risk if the balls were used properly. One sports website warns that jewellery and belt buckles could burst the ball but says that most are made to deflate slowly rather than explode. The Health and Safety Executive said it was up to individual employers to decide how to meet their legal obligation to protect their staff. E-mail this to a friend The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Healthcare top priority for Brown Plea on Madeleine's birthday Reid urges human rights shake-up MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW A pygmy conference in the rainforest Underground search for 'God particle' Zimbabwe to chair major UN body Hero's return for Knox-Johnston Google searches web's dark side Most popular now, in detail New plea on Madeleine's birthday Thatcher unveils Falklands arch Woman destroyed her unborn baby Eurovision's other 'Terry Wogans' Coalition troops missing in Iraq Most popular now, in detail Estonia's statue row: Hand of Moscow or sure vote-winner? Pygmies hold a conference in Congo's tropical rainforest We meet Eurovision commentators from around the continent Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/health/4121411.stm	BBC NEWS | Health | Pregnancy timeline Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Thursday, 23 December, 2004, 13:42 GMT E-mail this to a friend Fertilisation occurs and a ball of quickly multiplying cells embeds itself in the lining of the uterus. In the UK pregnancy is calculated from the first day of the woman's last period so for as much as three weeks of this first month she might not be actually pregnant. When fertilisation does occur the tiny mass of cells called a blastocyst at this stage embeds itself in the lining of the womb which is already thickening to support it. The mass of cells is developing fast and becomes an embryo. For many women the first sign of pregnancy is a missed period. Shopbought tests are considered largely reliable so the mother-to-be does not have to have her pregnancy confirmed by her GP. If a first test is negative a second one a few days later may prove positive as hormone levels in the urine rise. The embryo officially becomes a foetus. It is about the size of a baked bean and its spine and nervous system begin to form. The foetus already has its own blood system and may be a different blood group from its mother. Blood vessels are forming in what will become the umbilical cord and tiny buds which will become limbs appear. The baby&acute;s heart is beginning to develop. Morning sickness and other side effects of early pregnancy may take hold. Around this time many women find they experience the side-effects of early pregnancy including needing to urinate more often nausea and vomiting and feeling a bit weepy and irritable. All medication including supplements need to be carefully checked as the foetus is undergoing vital development in the first 12 weeks. If the woman has not told her GP or community midwife she is pregnant yet now is a good time to do so. It is quite common to have a first scan at this stage if the woman has had a previous miscarriage or bleeding. An early scan is often done through the vagina and is used to check the pregnancy is not ectopic. It should show up the baby&acute;s heartbeat. The nervous system is also developing rapidly especially the brain. The head gets bigger and eyes form under the skin of the face. The foetus' limbs are growing and look more like arms and legs. All internal organs are developing and becoming more complex. The foetus is about 5cm long with its head tucked onto its chest. It has most its major organs and eyes and ears are developing. A scan at 10-13 weeks is recommended to pin down the date of the pregnancy. The umbilical cord is fully formed providing nourishment and removing waste products. The foetus looks fully human now. By this week the threat of miscarriage is much reduced. Many women announce their pregnancy to friends and colleagues. The foetus is growing in length much more quickly by now it is about eight cm long and weighs about 60 grams. The placenta is now wellformed though it's not yet doing its full job it takes over fully in week 14. The mother is likely to have her first scan this week. The womans uterus is becoming larger and is starting to rise out of the pelvis. The foetus can move its head quite easily. Third of the way through. The average pregnancy lasts 266 days or 280 days from the first day of last period. Screening for Downs syndrome is offered about now. A simple blood test is carried out first then further tests may be offered. On the basis of the blood test results the woman may opt for a Chorionic Villus sample or an amniocentesis which would diagnose or other chromosomal abnormalities. However these diagnostic tests have a small risk of subsequent miscarriage. An alternative to blood tests is a nuchal translucency scan a new scan offered by some larger hospitals. But again an amniocentisis would be required for firm diagnosis. The foetus now has toe and finger nails eyebrows and eyelashes. It is also covered with downy hair. The hair that will cover the baby until the last week or so of pregnancy - called lanugo - starts to form. This hair is very fine more like down and it probably serves as some form of insulation and protection for the skin. The foetus can hear noises from the outside world. By this stage the mother is visibly pregnant and the uterus is rising. By this stage the foetus is moving around a lot - probably enough to be felt. The foetus is now about 15-20cm long and weighs about 300g. Milk teeth have formed in the gums. Half way through pregnancy now. Almost all mothers are offered a routine scan. The foetus develops a waxy coating called vernix. The scan can show the foetus in fine detail and often reveal if the baby is a boy or a girl. However not all hospitals offer to tell parents the sex of the child - and not all parents want to know. The mother may feel short of breath as her uterus pushes against her diaphragm leaving less space for the lungs. The mother may be offered another ultrasound scan around this time. The scan can check the baby&acute;s spine internal organs and growth are normal. Senses develop: taste buds have started to form on the tongue and the foetus starts to feel touch. The skeleton continues to develop and bones that form the skull begin to harden - but not fully. Antenatal checkup and scan to check the baby&acute;s position. A baby born this early does sometimes survive. A baby born at 24 weeks may possibly survive but it would have severe breathing difficulties as its lungs would not be strong enough to cope. It would also be very thin lightweight and susceptible to infections. All organs are now in place and the rest of the pregnancy is for growth. Preeclampsia is a risk from here onwards. This potentially fatal condition causes high blood pressure protein in the urine and swelling caused by fluid retention. The causes are unclear but research suggests it may be linked to an immune reaction to the foetus or the placenta. If the condition is serious women may be advised to take drugs to lower their blood pressure and in some cases an early caesarean or induction may be performed. Serious complications of pregnancy The foetus skin is gradually becoming more opaque than transparent. The foetus measures about 34cm and weighs about 800g. Routine checkup to test for preeclampsia. Women with Rhesus negative blood will also be tested for antibodies. If the mother has Rh negative blood but the baby is Rh positive she can develop antibodies to her baby&acute;s blood during labour. This is not a problem in the first birth but can affect subsequent pregnancies and result in stillbirth. Fortunately treatment is simple and effective. BBC Health: Ask the doctor - Rhesus disease Some women develop restless leg syndrome in their third trimester. This is sensations such as crawling tingling or even cramps and burning inside the foot or leg - often in the evening and at night disturbing sleep and making the mother feel she needs to get up and walk around. No-one knows what causes this harmless but irritating condition. Braxton Hicks contractions may begin around now. They are practice contractions which dont usually hurt. These are irregular, painless contractions which feel like a squeezing sensation near the top of the uterus. If contractions become painful or occur four times an hour or more, the woman should call a doctor as she may be in early labour. The foetus can see now and tell light from dark. The mother&acute;s breasts start to produce colostrum about now This high calorie milk is produced by the mother to feed the baby for the first few days after birth before normal milk starts. Another antenatal appointment. The foetus is about 42cm and weighs 2.2kg. A baby born now has a good chance of survival. From now the baby should become settled in a head downwards position. A midwife can help to move it if necessary. The mother may find it more difficult to eat full meals as the expanded uterus presses on her stomach. If the mother has been told she may need a planned caesarean, now is a good time to discuss it further. The baby&acute;s head may engage in the pelvis any time now. The baby&acute;s lungs are practically mature now and it can survive unaided. The final weeks in the womb are to put on weight. Babies born from this week onward are not considered early. Another ante-natal appointment. The mother has reached her full size and weight by now. In theory the baby should be born this week. The mother&acute;s cervix prepares for the birth by softening. First babies are often up to a week late but if there are signs of distress to mother or child the birth will be induced. E-mail this to a friend A week by week guide to what happens to mother and baby during pregnancy Nine months: An overview Healthcare top priority for Brown 'Half' unaware of smoke ban date Surgeons warn on salon treatments Week at a Glance Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/health/4121411.stm	BBC NEWS | Health | Pregnancy timeline Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Thursday, 23 December, 2004, 13:42 GMT E-mail this to a friend Fertilisation occurs and a ball of quickly multiplying cells embeds itself in the lining of the uterus. In the UK pregnancy is calculated from the first day of the woman's last period so for as much as three weeks of this first month she might not be actually pregnant. When fertilisation does occur the tiny mass of cells called a blastocyst at this stage embeds itself in the lining of the womb which is already thickening to support it. The mass of cells is developing fast and becomes an embryo. For many women the first sign of pregnancy is a missed period. Shopbought tests are considered largely reliable so the mother-to-be does not have to have her pregnancy confirmed by her GP. If a first test is negative a second one a few days later may prove positive as hormone levels in the urine rise. The embryo officially becomes a foetus. It is about the size of a baked bean and its spine and nervous system begin to form. The foetus already has its own blood system and may be a different blood group from its mother. Blood vessels are forming in what will become the umbilical cord and tiny buds which will become limbs appear. The baby&acute;s heart is beginning to develop. Morning sickness and other side effects of early pregnancy may take hold. Around this time many women find they experience the side-effects of early pregnancy including needing to urinate more often nausea and vomiting and feeling a bit weepy and irritable. All medication including supplements need to be carefully checked as the foetus is undergoing vital development in the first 12 weeks. If the woman has not told her GP or community midwife she is pregnant yet now is a good time to do so. It is quite common to have a first scan at this stage if the woman has had a previous miscarriage or bleeding. An early scan is often done through the vagina and is used to check the pregnancy is not ectopic. It should show up the baby&acute;s heartbeat. The nervous system is also developing rapidly especially the brain. The head gets bigger and eyes form under the skin of the face. The foetus' limbs are growing and look more like arms and legs. All internal organs are developing and becoming more complex. The foetus is about 5cm long with its head tucked onto its chest. It has most its major organs and eyes and ears are developing. A scan at 10-13 weeks is recommended to pin down the date of the pregnancy. The umbilical cord is fully formed providing nourishment and removing waste products. The foetus looks fully human now. By this week the threat of miscarriage is much reduced. Many women announce their pregnancy to friends and colleagues. The foetus is growing in length much more quickly by now it is about eight cm long and weighs about 60 grams. The placenta is now wellformed though it's not yet doing its full job it takes over fully in week 14. The mother is likely to have her first scan this week. The womans uterus is becoming larger and is starting to rise out of the pelvis. The foetus can move its head quite easily. Third of the way through. The average pregnancy lasts 266 days or 280 days from the first day of last period. Screening for Downs syndrome is offered about now. A simple blood test is carried out first then further tests may be offered. On the basis of the blood test results the woman may opt for a Chorionic Villus sample or an amniocentesis which would diagnose or other chromosomal abnormalities. However these diagnostic tests have a small risk of subsequent miscarriage. An alternative to blood tests is a nuchal translucency scan a new scan offered by some larger hospitals. But again an amniocentisis would be required for firm diagnosis. The foetus now has toe and finger nails eyebrows and eyelashes. It is also covered with downy hair. The hair that will cover the baby until the last week or so of pregnancy - called lanugo - starts to form. This hair is very fine more like down and it probably serves as some form of insulation and protection for the skin. The foetus can hear noises from the outside world. By this stage the mother is visibly pregnant and the uterus is rising. By this stage the foetus is moving around a lot - probably enough to be felt. The foetus is now about 15-20cm long and weighs about 300g. Milk teeth have formed in the gums. Half way through pregnancy now. Almost all mothers are offered a routine scan. The foetus develops a waxy coating called vernix. The scan can show the foetus in fine detail and often reveal if the baby is a boy or a girl. However not all hospitals offer to tell parents the sex of the child - and not all parents want to know. The mother may feel short of breath as her uterus pushes against her diaphragm leaving less space for the lungs. The mother may be offered another ultrasound scan around this time. The scan can check the baby&acute;s spine internal organs and growth are normal. Senses develop: taste buds have started to form on the tongue and the foetus starts to feel touch. The skeleton continues to develop and bones that form the skull begin to harden - but not fully. Antenatal checkup and scan to check the baby&acute;s position. A baby born this early does sometimes survive. A baby born at 24 weeks may possibly survive but it would have severe breathing difficulties as its lungs would not be strong enough to cope. It would also be very thin lightweight and susceptible to infections. All organs are now in place and the rest of the pregnancy is for growth. Preeclampsia is a risk from here onwards. This potentially fatal condition causes high blood pressure protein in the urine and swelling caused by fluid retention. The causes are unclear but research suggests it may be linked to an immune reaction to the foetus or the placenta. If the condition is serious women may be advised to take drugs to lower their blood pressure and in some cases an early caesarean or induction may be performed. Serious complications of pregnancy The foetus skin is gradually becoming more opaque than transparent. The foetus measures about 34cm and weighs about 800g. Routine checkup to test for preeclampsia. Women with Rhesus negative blood will also be tested for antibodies. If the mother has Rh negative blood but the baby is Rh positive she can develop antibodies to her baby&acute;s blood during labour. This is not a problem in the first birth but can affect subsequent pregnancies and result in stillbirth. Fortunately treatment is simple and effective. BBC Health: Ask the doctor - Rhesus disease Some women develop restless leg syndrome in their third trimester. This is sensations such as crawling tingling or even cramps and burning inside the foot or leg - often in the evening and at night disturbing sleep and making the mother feel she needs to get up and walk around. No-one knows what causes this harmless but irritating condition. Braxton Hicks contractions may begin around now. They are practice contractions which dont usually hurt. These are irregular, painless contractions which feel like a squeezing sensation near the top of the uterus. If contractions become painful or occur four times an hour or more, the woman should call a doctor as she may be in early labour. The foetus can see now and tell light from dark. The mother&acute;s breasts start to produce colostrum about now This high calorie milk is produced by the mother to feed the baby for the first few days after birth before normal milk starts. Another antenatal appointment. The foetus is about 42cm and weighs 2.2kg. A baby born now has a good chance of survival. From now the baby should become settled in a head downwards position. A midwife can help to move it if necessary. The mother may find it more difficult to eat full meals as the expanded uterus presses on her stomach. If the mother has been told she may need a planned caesarean, now is a good time to discuss it further. The baby&acute;s head may engage in the pelvis any time now. The baby&acute;s lungs are practically mature now and it can survive unaided. The final weeks in the womb are to put on weight. Babies born from this week onward are not considered early. Another ante-natal appointment. The mother has reached her full size and weight by now. In theory the baby should be born this week. The mother&acute;s cervix prepares for the birth by softening. First babies are often up to a week late but if there are signs of distress to mother or child the birth will be induced. E-mail this to a friend A week by week guide to what happens to mother and baby during pregnancy Nine months: An overview Healthcare top priority for Brown 'Half' unaware of smoke ban date Surgeons warn on salon treatments Week at a Glance Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/uk/6646503.stm	BBC NEWS | UK | Uni may ban exercise ball chairs Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 13:07 GMT 14:07 UK E-mail this to a friend Uni may ban exercise ball chairs The balls are mostly used for exercise but can be used as chairs. University officials are considering whether they should ban physiotherapy lecturers from using large exercise balls as chairs. Physiotherapists at the University of Bath say sitting on the balls while working at a desk encourages good posture and tones core muscles. Their professional body agrees that they are beneficial and carry no risk. But health and safety officials are concerned that the giant inflatables may be dangerous. A spokesman for the university said: "The university's health and safety team are looking into whether the balls meet the university's guidelines on conventional chairs to see if the trial can be allowed to become a permanent situation. We expect the result of this shortly." The balls are often used in gyms and are also known as Swiss balls because they were first used in Switzerland in the 1960s by therapists working with children with cerebral palsy. Physiotherapist Sonya Crowe from the university's Department for Health started a trend when she began using an exercise ball instead of a chair. Ms Crowe, who is the sports physiotherapist for the British beach volleyball team, said: "The balls are firm with a bit of give, so it is not difficult to balance on top of them, but the constant small movements you make whilst sitting at a desk are perfect for strengthening your core muscles. "You also have to sit upright, so they are perfect for improving posture. "In particular, people who suffer from back ache and shoulder pain can really benefit from sitting on an exercise ball instead of a regular office chair." She added: "I have never heard of anyone falling off one of the balls - and the health and safety benefits far outweigh any risks there may be." Ms Crowe's colleague Emily Richards said: "You couldn't miss the fact that Sonya was sat on a big squashy ball instead of an office chair. "A few of us tried it out and could see the benefit immediately. We put in a bulk order and now at least a dozen people around the university have got them." She added: "It seems to have started a real craze, and my husband has now got one at his work to help his bad back." The Chartered Society of Physiotherapy said there was no risk if the balls were used properly. One sports website warns that jewellery and belt buckles could burst the ball but says that most are made to deflate slowly rather than explode. The Health and Safety Executive said it was up to individual employers to decide how to meet their legal obligation to protect their staff. E-mail this to a friend The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Healthcare top priority for Brown Plea on Madeleine's birthday Reid urges human rights shake-up MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW A pygmy conference in the rainforest Underground search for 'God particle' Google searches web's dark side Zimbabwe to chair major UN body Hero's return for Knox-Johnston Most popular now, in detail New plea on Madeleine's birthday Thatcher unveils Falklands arch Woman destroyed her unborn baby Eurovision's other 'Terry Wogans' Coalition troops missing in Iraq Most popular now, in detail Estonia's statue row: Hand of Moscow or sure vote-winner? Pygmies hold a conference in Congo's tropical rainforest We meet Eurovision commentators from around the continent Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/uk/6646503.stm	BBC NEWS | UK | Uni may ban exercise ball chairs Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 13:07 GMT 14:07 UK E-mail this to a friend Uni may ban exercise ball chairs The balls are mostly used for exercise but can be used as chairs. University officials are considering whether they should ban physiotherapy lecturers from using large exercise balls as chairs. Physiotherapists at the University of Bath say sitting on the balls while working at a desk encourages good posture and tones core muscles. Their professional body agrees that they are beneficial and carry no risk. But health and safety officials are concerned that the giant inflatables may be dangerous. A spokesman for the university said: "The university's health and safety team are looking into whether the balls meet the university's guidelines on conventional chairs to see if the trial can be allowed to become a permanent situation. We expect the result of this shortly." The balls are often used in gyms and are also known as Swiss balls because they were first used in Switzerland in the 1960s by therapists working with children with cerebral palsy. Physiotherapist Sonya Crowe from the university's Department for Health started a trend when she began using an exercise ball instead of a chair. Ms Crowe, who is the sports physiotherapist for the British beach volleyball team, said: "The balls are firm with a bit of give, so it is not difficult to balance on top of them, but the constant small movements you make whilst sitting at a desk are perfect for strengthening your core muscles. "You also have to sit upright, so they are perfect for improving posture. "In particular, people who suffer from back ache and shoulder pain can really benefit from sitting on an exercise ball instead of a regular office chair." She added: "I have never heard of anyone falling off one of the balls - and the health and safety benefits far outweigh any risks there may be." Ms Crowe's colleague Emily Richards said: "You couldn't miss the fact that Sonya was sat on a big squashy ball instead of an office chair. "A few of us tried it out and could see the benefit immediately. We put in a bulk order and now at least a dozen people around the university have got them." She added: "It seems to have started a real craze, and my husband has now got one at his work to help his bad back." The Chartered Society of Physiotherapy said there was no risk if the balls were used properly. One sports website warns that jewellery and belt buckles could burst the ball but says that most are made to deflate slowly rather than explode. The Health and Safety Executive said it was up to individual employers to decide how to meet their legal obligation to protect their staff. E-mail this to a friend The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Healthcare top priority for Brown Plea on Madeleine's birthday Reid urges human rights shake-up MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW A pygmy conference in the rainforest Underground search for 'God particle' Google searches web's dark side Zimbabwe to chair major UN body Hero's return for Knox-Johnston Most popular now, in detail New plea on Madeleine's birthday Thatcher unveils Falklands arch Woman destroyed her unborn baby Eurovision's other 'Terry Wogans' Coalition troops missing in Iraq Most popular now, in detail Estonia's statue row: Hand of Moscow or sure vote-winner? Pygmies hold a conference in Congo's tropical rainforest We meet Eurovision commentators from around the continent Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/health/6648059.stm	BBC NEWS | Health | Experts back folic acid in flour Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 17:03 GMT 18:03 UK E-mail this to a friend Experts back folic acid in flour Under the plan, all bread would be made with folic acid-fortified flour The UK's official food watchdog is backing the mandatory fortification of flour with folic acid to reduce birth defects such as spina bifida. The proposal will go before the board of the Food Standards Agency next week for ratification. If passed, ministers will then decide whether to press ahead. Scientific research shows that folic acid significantly cuts the risk of neural tube defects, which affect up to 900 pregnancies a year in the UK. However, there is concern that adding the vitamin to flour could harm some elderly patients, as it could mask a deficiency in the B12 vitamin. Up to 10% of those aged 65 and older have borderline B12 levels and could tip into deficiency. In extreme cases, this can cause irreversible damage to the nervous system. The recommendation to the FSA board suggests that products containing folic acid at nutritionally significant levels should be clearly labelled. It also argues that mandatory fortification should be accompanied by new controls on the voluntary addition of folic acid to other products, such as breakfast cereals and low-fat spreads, and on the use of folic acid supplements. A system for monitoring the health impact of fortification would also be needed. Wholemeal flour would be exempt from fortification in order to give consumers more choice. The FSA already advises women to eat extra folic acid when trying to get pregnant. However, research suggests that only half of such women adhere to this advice. Also, up to half of pregnancies are unplanned, meaning women may miss the opportunity. Each year between 500 and 600 babies in the UK are reported to have neural tube defects. It is thought many of the other affected pregnancies are terminated. Mandatory fortification has already been introduced in the USA, Canada and Chile, where it cut NTD rates by between 27% and 50%. A panel of UK experts, the Scientific Advisory Committee on Nutrition (SACN), last year backed mandatory fortification of flour. SACN found no evidence that vitamin B12 deficiency was masked in older people, provided folic acid doses were 1mg a day or less. An FSA consultation on the issue drew 202 responses from industry, consumer groups and individuals. The baking industry raised "practical concerns" about the fortification of bread. It said bread-making flour couldn't easily be separated from other flours in mills. E-mail this to a friend Folic acid 'should be in flour' 12 Dec 06 | Health Folic acid boosts IVF twin births 05 May 06 | Health Folic acid 'cuts dementia risk' 15 Aug 05 | Health Push to add folic acid to bread 05 Apr 06 | Health Association for Spina Bifida and Hydrocephalus Scientific Advisory Committee of Nutrition The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Healthcare top priority for Brown 'Half' unaware of smoke ban date Surgeons warn on salon treatments MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW A pygmy conference in the rainforest Underground search for 'God particle' Google searches web's dark side Zimbabwe to chair major UN body Hero's return for Knox-Johnston Most popular now, in detail New plea on Madeleine's birthday Thatcher unveils Falklands arch Woman destroyed her unborn baby Eurovision's other 'Terry Wogans' Coalition troops missing in Iraq Most popular now, in detail Estonia's statue row: Hand of Moscow or sure vote-winner? Pygmies hold a conference in Congo's tropical rainforest We meet Eurovision commentators from around the continent Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/health/6648059.stm	BBC NEWS | Health | Experts back folic acid in flour Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 17:03 GMT 18:03 UK E-mail this to a friend Experts back folic acid in flour Under the plan, all bread would be made with folic acid-fortified flour The UK's official food watchdog is backing the mandatory fortification of flour with folic acid to reduce birth defects such as spina bifida. The proposal will go before the board of the Food Standards Agency next week for ratification. If passed, ministers will then decide whether to press ahead. Scientific research shows that folic acid significantly cuts the risk of neural tube defects, which affect up to 900 pregnancies a year in the UK. However, there is concern that adding the vitamin to flour could harm some elderly patients, as it could mask a deficiency in the B12 vitamin. Up to 10% of those aged 65 and older have borderline B12 levels and could tip into deficiency. In extreme cases, this can cause irreversible damage to the nervous system. The recommendation to the FSA board suggests that products containing folic acid at nutritionally significant levels should be clearly labelled. It also argues that mandatory fortification should be accompanied by new controls on the voluntary addition of folic acid to other products, such as breakfast cereals and low-fat spreads, and on the use of folic acid supplements. A system for monitoring the health impact of fortification would also be needed. Wholemeal flour would be exempt from fortification in order to give consumers more choice. The FSA already advises women to eat extra folic acid when trying to get pregnant. However, research suggests that only half of such women adhere to this advice. Also, up to half of pregnancies are unplanned, meaning women may miss the opportunity. Each year between 500 and 600 babies in the UK are reported to have neural tube defects. It is thought many of the other affected pregnancies are terminated. Mandatory fortification has already been introduced in the USA, Canada and Chile, where it cut NTD rates by between 27% and 50%. A panel of UK experts, the Scientific Advisory Committee on Nutrition (SACN), last year backed mandatory fortification of flour. SACN found no evidence that vitamin B12 deficiency was masked in older people, provided folic acid doses were 1mg a day or less. An FSA consultation on the issue drew 202 responses from industry, consumer groups and individuals. The baking industry raised "practical concerns" about the fortification of bread. It said bread-making flour couldn't easily be separated from other flours in mills. E-mail this to a friend Folic acid 'should be in flour' 12 Dec 06 | Health Folic acid boosts IVF twin births 05 May 06 | Health Folic acid 'cuts dementia risk' 15 Aug 05 | Health Push to add folic acid to bread 05 Apr 06 | Health Association for Spina Bifida and Hydrocephalus Scientific Advisory Committee of Nutrition The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Healthcare top priority for Brown 'Half' unaware of smoke ban date Surgeons warn on salon treatments MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW A pygmy conference in the rainforest Underground search for 'God particle' Google searches web's dark side Zimbabwe to chair major UN body Hero's return for Knox-Johnston Most popular now, in detail New plea on Madeleine's birthday Thatcher unveils Falklands arch Woman destroyed her unborn baby Eurovision's other 'Terry Wogans' Coalition troops missing in Iraq Most popular now, in detail Estonia's statue row: Hand of Moscow or sure vote-winner? Pygmies hold a conference in Congo's tropical rainforest We meet Eurovision commentators from around the continent Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/health/3444635.stm	BBC NEWS | Health | Cancer: The facts Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 30 January 2004, 11:57 GMT E-mail this to a friend One in three of us will be diagnosed with cancer during our life. The disease tends to affect older people - but can strike at any time. Excluding certain skin cancers, there were more than 270,000 new cases of the disease in 2001 - and the rate is increasing by about 1% a year. Some cancer, such as breast, are becoming more common, while new cases of lung cancer fall away due to the drop in the number of smokers. However, while the overall number of new cancers is not falling, the good news is that successful treatment rates for many of the most common types are improving rapidly. BBC News Online has produced, in conjunction with Cancer Research UK, a guide to some of the most common forms of cancer and the treatments used to tackle them. To learn more about different types of cancer, and to read the experiences of patients, click on the links to the right. E-mail this to a friend Cancer - the facts Cervical and Uterine Cancers National Cancer Research Institute The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Healthcare top priority for Brown 'Half' unaware of smoke ban date Surgeons warn on salon treatments Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/health/3444635.stm	BBC NEWS | Health | Cancer: The facts Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 30 January 2004, 11:57 GMT E-mail this to a friend One in three of us will be diagnosed with cancer during our life. The disease tends to affect older people - but can strike at any time. Excluding certain skin cancers, there were more than 270,000 new cases of the disease in 2001 - and the rate is increasing by about 1% a year. Some cancer, such as breast, are becoming more common, while new cases of lung cancer fall away due to the drop in the number of smokers. However, while the overall number of new cancers is not falling, the good news is that successful treatment rates for many of the most common types are improving rapidly. BBC News Online has produced, in conjunction with Cancer Research UK, a guide to some of the most common forms of cancer and the treatments used to tackle them. To learn more about different types of cancer, and to read the experiences of patients, click on the links to the right. E-mail this to a friend Cancer - the facts Cervical and Uterine Cancers National Cancer Research Institute The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Healthcare top priority for Brown 'Half' unaware of smoke ban date Surgeons warn on salon treatments Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/england/west_midlands/6646467.stm	BBC NEWS | England | West Midlands | Body parts sale man avoids jail Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 12:51 GMT 13:51 UK E-mail this to a friend Body parts sale man avoids jail Daniel Tuck tried to sell his kidney for £24,000 A debt-ridden salesman who tried to sell one of his own kidneys over the internet has been given a 12-month suspended jail sentence. Daniel Tuck, from Oldbury, West Midlands, is the first person to be successfully prosecuted under a new law preventing the sale of body parts. The 26-year-old tried to sell his kidney for £24,000 on a chatroom used by kidney disease sufferers. The judge suspended his sentence for two years and ordered him to pay £250. He had faced up to three years in jail for contravening the Human Tissue Act. I want to sell my kidney - this is 100% genuine. I am a white male of completely perfect health. Tuck had previous convictions for theft and obtaining property by deception. Judge Challinor said: "There is much public disquiet surrounding the sale of body parts for money and there is an understandable revulsion at such practices. "A sentence incorporating an element of deterrence is required." Helena Miller, prosecuting, said Tuck admitted a charge of offering to supply human material for transplantation last month. He had posted an advert on the internet which read: "I am a healthy 25-year-old male from Birmingham in England. I am blood group O+ and am desperate for funds to rebuild my life. "I want to sell my kidney - this is 100% genuine. I am a white male of completely perfect health. Why risk getting a kidney from a Third World country?" He was questioned by police after meeting a reporter from the Sunday Mercury newspaper in May 2006 and agreeing a price for the kidney, she said. During the meeting Tuck confirmed he knew the sale of organs in the United Kingdom was illegal. When he was arrested in June he told police he had recently split with his girlfriend and was £25,000 in debt. "He said he wasn't thinking straight," Ms Miller said. "He said he put the advert on the site to see what would happen." Jas Mann, defending, said his client had been a broken man at the time of the offence and did not intend to go through with his proposal. He said Tuck was gambling on a regular basis and "pumped" his earnings into fruit machines. A spokesman for the Human Tissue Authority, set up under the new Act to take action against organ trafficking, said: "It is an offence to give or receive a reward for the supply or offer of human material for transplantation." A spokesman for the Crown Prosecution Service said: "Any advertisement to sell human organs is a criminal offence and, where there is sufficient evidence and it is in the public interest, the CPS will prosecute these cases." E-mail this to a friend VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS Daniel Tuck hangs his head outside court Culture, leisure, sport and more from the BBC website for the Black Country The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites TOP WEST MIDLANDS STORIES Pair in court over baby's death Body parts sale man avoids jail Micro artist sells works for £11m MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW A pygmy conference in the rainforest Underground search for 'God particle' Google searches web's dark side Zimbabwe to chair major UN body Hero's return for Knox-Johnston Most popular now, in detail New plea on Madeleine's birthday Thatcher unveils Falklands arch Woman destroyed her unborn baby Eurovision's other 'Terry Wogans' Coalition troops missing in Iraq Most popular now, in detail Estonia's statue row: Hand of Moscow or sure vote-winner? Pygmies hold a conference in Congo's tropical rainforest We meet Eurovision commentators from around the continent Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/england/west_midlands/6646467.stm	BBC NEWS | England | West Midlands | Body parts sale man avoids jail Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 12:51 GMT 13:51 UK E-mail this to a friend Body parts sale man avoids jail Daniel Tuck tried to sell his kidney for £24,000 A debt-ridden salesman who tried to sell one of his own kidneys over the internet has been given a 12-month suspended jail sentence. Daniel Tuck, from Oldbury, West Midlands, is the first person to be successfully prosecuted under a new law preventing the sale of body parts. The 26-year-old tried to sell his kidney for £24,000 on a chatroom used by kidney disease sufferers. The judge suspended his sentence for two years and ordered him to pay £250. He had faced up to three years in jail for contravening the Human Tissue Act. I want to sell my kidney - this is 100% genuine. I am a white male of completely perfect health. Tuck had previous convictions for theft and obtaining property by deception. Judge Challinor said: "There is much public disquiet surrounding the sale of body parts for money and there is an understandable revulsion at such practices. "A sentence incorporating an element of deterrence is required." Helena Miller, prosecuting, said Tuck admitted a charge of offering to supply human material for transplantation last month. He had posted an advert on the internet which read: "I am a healthy 25-year-old male from Birmingham in England. I am blood group O+ and am desperate for funds to rebuild my life. "I want to sell my kidney - this is 100% genuine. I am a white male of completely perfect health. Why risk getting a kidney from a Third World country?" He was questioned by police after meeting a reporter from the Sunday Mercury newspaper in May 2006 and agreeing a price for the kidney, she said. During the meeting Tuck confirmed he knew the sale of organs in the United Kingdom was illegal. When he was arrested in June he told police he had recently split with his girlfriend and was £25,000 in debt. "He said he wasn't thinking straight," Ms Miller said. "He said he put the advert on the site to see what would happen." Jas Mann, defending, said his client had been a broken man at the time of the offence and did not intend to go through with his proposal. He said Tuck was gambling on a regular basis and "pumped" his earnings into fruit machines. A spokesman for the Human Tissue Authority, set up under the new Act to take action against organ trafficking, said: "It is an offence to give or receive a reward for the supply or offer of human material for transplantation." A spokesman for the Crown Prosecution Service said: "Any advertisement to sell human organs is a criminal offence and, where there is sufficient evidence and it is in the public interest, the CPS will prosecute these cases." E-mail this to a friend VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS Daniel Tuck hangs his head outside court Culture, leisure, sport and more from the BBC website for the Black Country The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites TOP WEST MIDLANDS STORIES Pair in court over baby's death Body parts sale man avoids jail Micro artist sells works for £11m MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW A pygmy conference in the rainforest Underground search for 'God particle' Google searches web's dark side Zimbabwe to chair major UN body Hero's return for Knox-Johnston Most popular now, in detail New plea on Madeleine's birthday Thatcher unveils Falklands arch Woman destroyed her unborn baby Eurovision's other 'Terry Wogans' Coalition troops missing in Iraq Most popular now, in detail Estonia's statue row: Hand of Moscow or sure vote-winner? Pygmies hold a conference in Congo's tropical rainforest We meet Eurovision commentators from around the continent Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/health/6642749.stm	BBC NEWS | Health | Drugs adviser raises charity fear Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Thursday, 10 May 2007, 23:01 GMT 00:01 UK E-mail this to a friend Drugs adviser raises charity fear The drugs are reserved for those with moderate Alzheimer's Concerns have been raised about the links between pharmaceutical firms and charity patient groups by the body that advises the NHS on which drugs to use. Sir Michael Rawlins, chairman of the National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence, said charities had to be wary of pharmaceutical donations. And he urged charities to question the cost of drugs more. But patient groups said there were strict guidelines covering such donations by the drugs industry. I have yet ever to hear a patient organisation criticise a price of the drug Sir Michael Rawlins, of NICE Sir Michael said: "Patient organisations need to think very carefully about why pharmaceutical companies are giving them money and they have to make sure they are not beholden to a pharmaceutical company. "I have yet ever to hear a patient organisation criticise a price of the drug. "When they do that they will come into their own." Sir Michael refused to name individual groups The subject of drug firm donations to patients groups and charities is a sensitive issue. Several groups, although not all, accept donations from drug firms. Most of those that do have codes of conduct setting out what those donations can and cannot be used for - most are restricted to funding education purposes than for campaigning. The Alzheimer's Society is involved in legal action along with Eisai and Pfizer against NICE over the decision to restrict the use of Alzheimer's treatments. The group has accepted money from both companies. But a spokeswoman pointed out that drug firm donations account for less than 1% of its income. She said the society's challenge was being done independently of the drug firms and added donations were never used to fund campaign activity. Breast Cancer Care, which pushed for NICE to approve the so-called breast cancer wonder-drug Herceptin, has received money from its maker Roche. A spokeswoman said any drug industry donations were always used for "impartial patient information". She added it was important there was a dialogue between patient groups and drug companies and she agreed cost was something that needed to be debated. "The cost of drug is clearly becoming a major factor in the potential for cancer treatment and must be addressed." And the Association of the British Pharmaceutical Industry denied there was anything wrong with such donations. "Patient groups and companies have a shared interest. When they work together it is in the patients' interests, usually to do with education programmes or disease awareness. "Any involvement has to be declared by the company so it is quite transparent." E-mail this to a friend Drugs watchdog faces legal review 26 Mar 07 | Health Alzheimer's drugs appeal refused 11 Oct 06 | Health Drug 'treats severe Alzheimer's' 23 Mar 06 | Health 'The drug improved both our lives' 10 Oct 06 | Health The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Healthcare top priority for Brown 'Half' unaware of smoke ban date Surgeons warn on salon treatments MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW A pygmy conference in the rainforest Underground search for 'God particle' Google searches web's dark side Zimbabwe to chair major UN body Hero's return for Knox-Johnston Most popular now, in detail New plea on Madeleine's birthday Thatcher unveils Falklands arch Woman destroyed her unborn baby Eurovision's other 'Terry Wogans' Coalition troops missing in Iraq Most popular now, in detail Estonia's statue row: Hand of Moscow or sure vote-winner? Pygmies hold a conference in Congo's tropical rainforest We meet Eurovision commentators from around the continent Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/health/6642749.stm	BBC NEWS | Health | Drugs adviser raises charity fear Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Thursday, 10 May 2007, 23:01 GMT 00:01 UK E-mail this to a friend Drugs adviser raises charity fear The drugs are reserved for those with moderate Alzheimer's Concerns have been raised about the links between pharmaceutical firms and charity patient groups by the body that advises the NHS on which drugs to use. Sir Michael Rawlins, chairman of the National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence, said charities had to be wary of pharmaceutical donations. And he urged charities to question the cost of drugs more. But patient groups said there were strict guidelines covering such donations by the drugs industry. I have yet ever to hear a patient organisation criticise a price of the drug Sir Michael Rawlins, of NICE Sir Michael said: "Patient organisations need to think very carefully about why pharmaceutical companies are giving them money and they have to make sure they are not beholden to a pharmaceutical company. "I have yet ever to hear a patient organisation criticise a price of the drug. "When they do that they will come into their own." Sir Michael refused to name individual groups The subject of drug firm donations to patients groups and charities is a sensitive issue. Several groups, although not all, accept donations from drug firms. Most of those that do have codes of conduct setting out what those donations can and cannot be used for - most are restricted to funding education purposes than for campaigning. The Alzheimer's Society is involved in legal action along with Eisai and Pfizer against NICE over the decision to restrict the use of Alzheimer's treatments. The group has accepted money from both companies. But a spokeswoman pointed out that drug firm donations account for less than 1% of its income. She said the society's challenge was being done independently of the drug firms and added donations were never used to fund campaign activity. Breast Cancer Care, which pushed for NICE to approve the so-called breast cancer wonder-drug Herceptin, has received money from its maker Roche. A spokeswoman said any drug industry donations were always used for "impartial patient information". She added it was important there was a dialogue between patient groups and drug companies and she agreed cost was something that needed to be debated. "The cost of drug is clearly becoming a major factor in the potential for cancer treatment and must be addressed." And the Association of the British Pharmaceutical Industry denied there was anything wrong with such donations. "Patient groups and companies have a shared interest. When they work together it is in the patients' interests, usually to do with education programmes or disease awareness. "Any involvement has to be declared by the company so it is quite transparent." E-mail this to a friend Drugs watchdog faces legal review 26 Mar 07 | Health Alzheimer's drugs appeal refused 11 Oct 06 | Health Drug 'treats severe Alzheimer's' 23 Mar 06 | Health 'The drug improved both our lives' 10 Oct 06 | Health The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Healthcare top priority for Brown 'Half' unaware of smoke ban date Surgeons warn on salon treatments MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW A pygmy conference in the rainforest Underground search for 'God particle' Google searches web's dark side Zimbabwe to chair major UN body Hero's return for Knox-Johnston Most popular now, in detail New plea on Madeleine's birthday Thatcher unveils Falklands arch Woman destroyed her unborn baby Eurovision's other 'Terry Wogans' Coalition troops missing in Iraq Most popular now, in detail Estonia's statue row: Hand of Moscow or sure vote-winner? Pygmies hold a conference in Congo's tropical rainforest We meet Eurovision commentators from around the continent Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/health/default.stm	BBC NEWS | Health Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation From Our Own Correspondent Saturday, 12 May 2007, 12:15 GMT 13:15 UK Healthcare top priority for Brown Gordon Brown is making healthcare a domestic priority as he campaigns to become Labour leader. What will Brown do as PM? Brown on the NHS 'Half' unaware of smoke ban date Almost half of people do not know England's smoking ban will begin on 1 July, a survey suggests. Surgeons warn on salon treatments The public is being warned to avoid "medi-spas" offering procedures such as skin peels and Botox. Experts back folic acid in flour Aspirin 'prevents bowel cancer' Drinking at home 'cuts bingeing' Body parts sale man avoids jail Cancer therapy cuts side effects Scientists create 'plastic' blood ALSO IN THE NEWS How Milo is helping a woman with epilepsy lead a normal life VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS UK- 'worst' cancer drug access 'Why my ethnicity means a very long wait for a kidney' Patients and staff give their opinion on the NHS under Blair Could your daily commute be helped by a spot of meditation? Uni may ban exercise ball chairs Drugs adviser raises charity fear Call for mental heath care push Oral sex linked to throat cancer Gynaecologist lacked op consent Boy's fight to cure rare disease Screening as pupils contract TB Baby unit 'to re-open next week' Heart disease and stroke Aspirin 'prevents bowel cancer' Oral sex linked to throat cancer 'Sumo' offers brain disease hope He promised to save the NHS in 1997, so how has he fared? A comprehensive guide to clinical conditions FROM OTHER BBC SITES Why it's vital to ensure your kids have street sense ELSEWHERE ON THE BBC Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/health/default.stm	BBC NEWS | Health Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation From Our Own Correspondent Saturday, 12 May 2007, 12:15 GMT 13:15 UK Healthcare top priority for Brown Gordon Brown is making healthcare a domestic priority as he campaigns to become Labour leader. What will Brown do as PM? Brown on the NHS 'Half' unaware of smoke ban date Almost half of people do not know England's smoking ban will begin on 1 July, a survey suggests. Surgeons warn on salon treatments The public is being warned to avoid "medi-spas" offering procedures such as skin peels and Botox. Experts back folic acid in flour Aspirin 'prevents bowel cancer' Drinking at home 'cuts bingeing' Body parts sale man avoids jail Cancer therapy cuts side effects Scientists create 'plastic' blood ALSO IN THE NEWS How Milo is helping a woman with epilepsy lead a normal life VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS UK- 'worst' cancer drug access 'Why my ethnicity means a very long wait for a kidney' Patients and staff give their opinion on the NHS under Blair Could your daily commute be helped by a spot of meditation? Uni may ban exercise ball chairs Drugs adviser raises charity fear Call for mental heath care push Oral sex linked to throat cancer Gynaecologist lacked op consent Boy's fight to cure rare disease Screening as pupils contract TB Baby unit 'to re-open next week' Heart disease and stroke Aspirin 'prevents bowel cancer' Oral sex linked to throat cancer 'Sumo' offers brain disease hope He promised to save the NHS in 1997, so how has he fared? A comprehensive guide to clinical conditions FROM OTHER BBC SITES Why it's vital to ensure your kids have street sense ELSEWHERE ON THE BBC Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/england/essex/6644841.stm	BBC NEWS | England | Essex | Gynaecologist lacked op consent Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Thursday, 10 May 2007, 20:02 GMT 21:02 UK E-mail this to a friend Gynaecologist lacked op consent The General Medical Council said the case was "wholly exceptional" A gynaecologist who failed to obtain consent from a woman for an operation which left her unable to have sex has not been struck off. The General Medical Council (GMC) ruled it had been an "exceptional" case that saw Essex-based Dr June Swinhoe fail in her practise. Marian Howland, 52, from Epping, had not been made aware of risks linked to her operation for a prolapse in 2003. The GMC panel ruled Dr Swinhoe posed no risk to patients. In March 2003, Dr Swinhoe was working as a consultant gynaecologist at King George Hospital in Ilford and privately at Holly House Hospital in Buckhurst Hill. I have lost a lot of my life and all unnecessarily Mrs Howland had been married for eight years when she visited Dr Swinhoe with a prolapse and discomfort during sex. She told the panel she was admitted for the prolapse to be repaired but was not informed of all the side effects or of any risks associated with the procedures. Dr Swinhoe had not taken a full medical history from Mrs Howland who had previously had a hysterectomy, her ovaries removed and become blind in one eye. In tears, Mrs Howland told the panel a few weeks after the operation it became clear she had been left unable to have sex, and had been left "shell-shocked". She added: "I have lost my best friend, my husband, my lover. "I have lost a lot of my life and all unnecessarily." The panel told Dr Swinhoe: "The deficiencies in your communication with Mrs Howland and your failure to obtain consent from her were an aberration and amount to an isolated departure from your usual high standards of professional competence and care. "The finding that your fitness is impaired is, in itself, a very significant mark on your record. "You have learned from this distressing experience. "This is a wholly exceptional case and in the circumstances the panel is satisfied that it is fair, proportionate and sufficient to conclude the case without taking any action in respect of your registration." E-mail this to a friend Sport, travel, leisure and more from the BBC website for Essex Fatal crash closes stretch of M25 New lead over Oliver pub robbery Four arrested in drugs house raid MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW A pygmy conference in the rainforest Underground search for 'God particle' Google searches web's dark side Zimbabwe to chair major UN body Hero's return for Knox-Johnston Most popular now, in detail New plea on Madeleine's birthday Thatcher unveils Falklands arch Woman destroyed her unborn baby Eurovision's other 'Terry Wogans' Coalition troops missing in Iraq Most popular now, in detail Estonia's statue row: Hand of Moscow or sure vote-winner? Pygmies hold a conference in Congo's tropical rainforest We meet Eurovision commentators from around the continent Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/england/essex/6644841.stm	BBC NEWS | England | Essex | Gynaecologist lacked op consent Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Thursday, 10 May 2007, 20:02 GMT 21:02 UK E-mail this to a friend Gynaecologist lacked op consent The General Medical Council said the case was "wholly exceptional" A gynaecologist who failed to obtain consent from a woman for an operation which left her unable to have sex has not been struck off. The General Medical Council (GMC) ruled it had been an "exceptional" case that saw Essex-based Dr June Swinhoe fail in her practise. Marian Howland, 52, from Epping, had not been made aware of risks linked to her operation for a prolapse in 2003. The GMC panel ruled Dr Swinhoe posed no risk to patients. In March 2003, Dr Swinhoe was working as a consultant gynaecologist at King George Hospital in Ilford and privately at Holly House Hospital in Buckhurst Hill. I have lost a lot of my life and all unnecessarily Mrs Howland had been married for eight years when she visited Dr Swinhoe with a prolapse and discomfort during sex. She told the panel she was admitted for the prolapse to be repaired but was not informed of all the side effects or of any risks associated with the procedures. Dr Swinhoe had not taken a full medical history from Mrs Howland who had previously had a hysterectomy, her ovaries removed and become blind in one eye. In tears, Mrs Howland told the panel a few weeks after the operation it became clear she had been left unable to have sex, and had been left "shell-shocked". She added: "I have lost my best friend, my husband, my lover. "I have lost a lot of my life and all unnecessarily." The panel told Dr Swinhoe: "The deficiencies in your communication with Mrs Howland and your failure to obtain consent from her were an aberration and amount to an isolated departure from your usual high standards of professional competence and care. "The finding that your fitness is impaired is, in itself, a very significant mark on your record. "You have learned from this distressing experience. "This is a wholly exceptional case and in the circumstances the panel is satisfied that it is fair, proportionate and sufficient to conclude the case without taking any action in respect of your registration." E-mail this to a friend Sport, travel, leisure and more from the BBC website for Essex Fatal crash closes stretch of M25 New lead over Oliver pub robbery Four arrested in drugs house raid MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW A pygmy conference in the rainforest Underground search for 'God particle' Google searches web's dark side Zimbabwe to chair major UN body Hero's return for Knox-Johnston Most popular now, in detail New plea on Madeleine's birthday Thatcher unveils Falklands arch Woman destroyed her unborn baby Eurovision's other 'Terry Wogans' Coalition troops missing in Iraq Most popular now, in detail Estonia's statue row: Hand of Moscow or sure vote-winner? Pygmies hold a conference in Congo's tropical rainforest We meet Eurovision commentators from around the continent Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/england/nottinghamshire/6647431.stm	BBC NEWS | England | Nottinghamshire | Boy's fight to cure rare disease Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 15:18 GMT 16:18 UK E-mail this to a friend Boy's fight to cure rare disease Jack only has half the movement in his right arm A 12-year-old boy from Nottinghamshire is fighting to find a cure for a rare bone disease. Jack Beaumont, from Sutton-in-Ashfield, is believed to be one of just 300 people in the world who have been diagnosed with melorheostosis. The disease, which causes excess bone growth, has left Jack with half the normal movement in his right arm. He was meeting experts at a national conference on melorheostosis in Oxford on Friday. Jack and fellow sufferers shared their stories at the UK Melorheostosis Conference. "I'm hoping for some answers and I'm looking forward to meeting some other people who've got the same disease as me," he said. His mother, Nicola Beaumont, added: "He just shrugs it off because he's so laid back, nothing affects him in that respect but I think as he gets older, he's going to find more restrictions." E-mail this to a friend VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS Jack Beaumont talks about his hopes for a cure Sport, travel, leisure and more from the BBC website for Nottingham The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Man, 80, attacked by city mugger Disabled resident choked on onion Girls hand out Madeleine posters MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW A pygmy conference in the rainforest Underground search for 'God particle' Google searches web's dark side Zimbabwe to chair major UN body Hero's return for Knox-Johnston Most popular now, in detail New plea on Madeleine's birthday Thatcher unveils Falklands arch Woman destroyed her unborn baby Eurovision's other 'Terry Wogans' Coalition troops missing in Iraq Most popular now, in detail Estonia's statue row: Hand of Moscow or sure vote-winner? Pygmies hold a conference in Congo's tropical rainforest We meet Eurovision commentators from around the continent Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/england/nottinghamshire/6647431.stm	BBC NEWS | England | Nottinghamshire | Boy's fight to cure rare disease Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 15:18 GMT 16:18 UK E-mail this to a friend Boy's fight to cure rare disease Jack only has half the movement in his right arm A 12-year-old boy from Nottinghamshire is fighting to find a cure for a rare bone disease. Jack Beaumont, from Sutton-in-Ashfield, is believed to be one of just 300 people in the world who have been diagnosed with melorheostosis. The disease, which causes excess bone growth, has left Jack with half the normal movement in his right arm. He was meeting experts at a national conference on melorheostosis in Oxford on Friday. Jack and fellow sufferers shared their stories at the UK Melorheostosis Conference. "I'm hoping for some answers and I'm looking forward to meeting some other people who've got the same disease as me," he said. His mother, Nicola Beaumont, added: "He just shrugs it off because he's so laid back, nothing affects him in that respect but I think as he gets older, he's going to find more restrictions." E-mail this to a friend VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS Jack Beaumont talks about his hopes for a cure Sport, travel, leisure and more from the BBC website for Nottingham The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Man, 80, attacked by city mugger Disabled resident choked on onion Girls hand out Madeleine posters MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW A pygmy conference in the rainforest Underground search for 'God particle' Google searches web's dark side Zimbabwe to chair major UN body Hero's return for Knox-Johnston Most popular now, in detail New plea on Madeleine's birthday Thatcher unveils Falklands arch Woman destroyed her unborn baby Eurovision's other 'Terry Wogans' Coalition troops missing in Iraq Most popular now, in detail Estonia's statue row: Hand of Moscow or sure vote-winner? Pygmies hold a conference in Congo's tropical rainforest We meet Eurovision commentators from around the continent Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/northern_ireland/6645479.stm	BBC NEWS | Northern Ireland | Baby unit 'to re-open next week' Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 17:42 GMT 18:42 UK E-mail this to a friend Baby unit 'to re-open next week' The neonatal unit treats the sickest babies in Northern Ireland A consultant at the neonatal unit in Belfast where three premature babies picked up an infection said it hopes to resume admissions next week. The Royal Maternity Hospital closed the unit temporarily to new admissions after the babies became seriously ill. The ward has now been chemically decontaminated. Health Minister Michael McGimpsey said eliminating infections in hospitals was a priority. Dr Stanley Craig said the babies were responding well to antibiotics. "Any infection when you're particularly compromised, as a pre-term baby is, is potentially life-threatening," he said. "These babies are responding to the antibiotics that they're on, which is good news for the babies themselves, their parents and the staff involved in their care. The hospital hopes to re-open the unit next week "Being born premature does leave you very vulnerable to infection and it can be a problem, but we're seeing encouraging signs." The babies, who picked up a multi-resistant enterobacter infection, have been isolated and are being closely monitored by specially trained nurses. The health minister said the situation was not acceptable and pointed out there had been much investment in the area of patient safety. "It is one of the issues that we look at ...and it's one of the areas I take very, very seriously," said Mr McGimpsey. "Obviously when people go to hospital they expect not to pick up infection, when they're there. There is an incidence of infections in hospitals and we look to eliminate that because whatever the incidence is, it is ... too high." Iris Robinson of the DUP said she was concerned about the impact on other hospitals. "What I am particularly concerned about is how the other hospitals across the province are going to deal with demand while the Royal's neonatal unit is out of operation," she said. "Usually the most unwell babies from all around Northern Ireland would be transferred to the specialist unit in Belfast. "Obviously this will not be the case for the immediate future, and these cases will have to be managed in their local units." E-mail this to a friend VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS Dot Kirby reports on the units closure Royal Hospitals maternity unit The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites TOP NORTHERN IRELAND STORIES Brown 'has no extra cash' for NI Two die in separate road crashes Couple are rescued from flat fire MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW A pygmy conference in the rainforest Underground search for 'God particle' Google searches web's dark side Zimbabwe to chair major UN body Hero's return for Knox-Johnston Most popular now, in detail New plea on Madeleine's birthday Thatcher unveils Falklands arch Woman destroyed her unborn baby Eurovision's other 'Terry Wogans' Coalition troops missing in Iraq Most popular now, in detail Estonia's statue row: Hand of Moscow or sure vote-winner? Pygmies hold a conference in Congo's tropical rainforest We meet Eurovision commentators from around the continent Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/northern_ireland/6645479.stm	BBC NEWS | Northern Ireland | Baby unit 'to re-open next week' Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 17:42 GMT 18:42 UK E-mail this to a friend Baby unit 'to re-open next week' The neonatal unit treats the sickest babies in Northern Ireland A consultant at the neonatal unit in Belfast where three premature babies picked up an infection said it hopes to resume admissions next week. The Royal Maternity Hospital closed the unit temporarily to new admissions after the babies became seriously ill. The ward has now been chemically decontaminated. Health Minister Michael McGimpsey said eliminating infections in hospitals was a priority. Dr Stanley Craig said the babies were responding well to antibiotics. "Any infection when you're particularly compromised, as a pre-term baby is, is potentially life-threatening," he said. "These babies are responding to the antibiotics that they're on, which is good news for the babies themselves, their parents and the staff involved in their care. The hospital hopes to re-open the unit next week "Being born premature does leave you very vulnerable to infection and it can be a problem, but we're seeing encouraging signs." The babies, who picked up a multi-resistant enterobacter infection, have been isolated and are being closely monitored by specially trained nurses. The health minister said the situation was not acceptable and pointed out there had been much investment in the area of patient safety. "It is one of the issues that we look at ...and it's one of the areas I take very, very seriously," said Mr McGimpsey. "Obviously when people go to hospital they expect not to pick up infection, when they're there. There is an incidence of infections in hospitals and we look to eliminate that because whatever the incidence is, it is ... too high." Iris Robinson of the DUP said she was concerned about the impact on other hospitals. "What I am particularly concerned about is how the other hospitals across the province are going to deal with demand while the Royal's neonatal unit is out of operation," she said. "Usually the most unwell babies from all around Northern Ireland would be transferred to the specialist unit in Belfast. "Obviously this will not be the case for the immediate future, and these cases will have to be managed in their local units." E-mail this to a friend VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS Dot Kirby reports on the units closure Royal Hospitals maternity unit The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites TOP NORTHERN IRELAND STORIES Brown 'has no extra cash' for NI Two die in separate road crashes Couple are rescued from flat fire MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW A pygmy conference in the rainforest Underground search for 'God particle' Google searches web's dark side Zimbabwe to chair major UN body Hero's return for Knox-Johnston Most popular now, in detail New plea on Madeleine's birthday Thatcher unveils Falklands arch Woman destroyed her unborn baby Eurovision's other 'Terry Wogans' Coalition troops missing in Iraq Most popular now, in detail Estonia's statue row: Hand of Moscow or sure vote-winner? Pygmies hold a conference in Congo's tropical rainforest We meet Eurovision commentators from around the continent Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/health/6644293.stm	BBC NEWS | Health | Call for mental heath care push Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 07:27 GMT 08:27 UK E-mail this to a friend Call for mental heath care push Most mental health treatment takes place out of hospitals Mental health services must renew their efforts to improve community care, the mental health tsar says. Professor Louis Appleby has called on NHS trusts to look at new ways of working to help people rebuild lives. He said they should look to work more closely with employment and housing agencies and cut waiting lists for talking therapies in England. Campaigners said there was a lot of work to do to ensure services were good enough for patients. In the last eight years, there has been a big push to move care out of hospitals and into the community. With units and day centres closing and community services cut, the more seriously ill are still being neglected and put at risk Marjorie Wallace, of Sane There are now more than 700 community teams, including nurses, doctors and social workers, providing a range of crisis help and early intervention. However, the Healthcare Commission last year criticised services, pointing to gaps in out-of-hours care, talking therapies and access to information. Nearly half of services were rated as fair or weak. Professor Appleby said the report was about the next phase of reform of mental health care. He told BBC News: "We've had several years of strengthening what community services do, and the report is about breaking down the barriers in the next stage of reforms. "I'm talking about barriers that get in the way of better patients' experience of care "At the moment, for example, there is a barrier between what health services traditionally do, which is clinical care, improving people's illnesses, abolishing their symptoms. "But what patients often tell us they want is help with quality of life. They want opportunities for training, for jobs, and for decent housing, and we have to take on that responsibility." His report called on the 60 mental heath trusts to consult with their local populations about what they needed. The report said mental health trusts should look at ways they could link up with agencies responsible for housing and employment. It also called for community teams to get involved in giving people more advice on how to reduce alcohol and drug use and look after their physical health. He also called for a renewed effort to reduce waiting lists for talking therapies such as cognitive behavioural therapy, which sometimes has waits of over 12 months. The NHS is currently rolling out a programme of providing people with access to computerised CBT and the government has set up 10 pilots to explore ways of speeding up access to talking therapies. Marjorie Wallace, chief executive of the mental health charity Sane, said extra investment was needed. "We are all too aware that with units and day centres closing and community services cut, the more seriously ill are still being neglected and put at risk. "The government goes forward with its policy of reform and choice, but there are thousands who have no choice of where to go in crisis and little chance of rehabilitation or safe, consistent care, both in or out of hospital." E-mail this to a friend Firms urged to help mentally ill Mental health wards 'unpleasant' Mental health services 'failing' Young 'failed' on mental health Fear over health of mentally ill 'My company helped me recover' 'The services were just not there' 'I'm so glad I didn't kill myself' 'I have washed my hands of NHS' 'I learned to live with voices' Kicking depression into touch The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Healthcare top priority for Brown 'Half' unaware of smoke ban date Surgeons warn on salon treatments MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW A pygmy conference in the rainforest Underground search for 'God particle' Google searches web's dark side Zimbabwe to chair major UN body Hero's return for Knox-Johnston Most popular now, in detail New plea on Madeleine's birthday Thatcher unveils Falklands arch Woman destroyed her unborn baby Eurovision's other 'Terry Wogans' Coalition troops missing in Iraq Most popular now, in detail Estonia's statue row: Hand of Moscow or sure vote-winner? Pygmies hold a conference in Congo's tropical rainforest We meet Eurovision commentators from around the continent Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/health/6644293.stm	BBC NEWS | Health | Call for mental heath care push Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 07:27 GMT 08:27 UK E-mail this to a friend Call for mental heath care push Most mental health treatment takes place out of hospitals Mental health services must renew their efforts to improve community care, the mental health tsar says. Professor Louis Appleby has called on NHS trusts to look at new ways of working to help people rebuild lives. He said they should look to work more closely with employment and housing agencies and cut waiting lists for talking therapies in England. Campaigners said there was a lot of work to do to ensure services were good enough for patients. In the last eight years, there has been a big push to move care out of hospitals and into the community. With units and day centres closing and community services cut, the more seriously ill are still being neglected and put at risk Marjorie Wallace, of Sane There are now more than 700 community teams, including nurses, doctors and social workers, providing a range of crisis help and early intervention. However, the Healthcare Commission last year criticised services, pointing to gaps in out-of-hours care, talking therapies and access to information. Nearly half of services were rated as fair or weak. Professor Appleby said the report was about the next phase of reform of mental health care. He told BBC News: "We've had several years of strengthening what community services do, and the report is about breaking down the barriers in the next stage of reforms. "I'm talking about barriers that get in the way of better patients' experience of care "At the moment, for example, there is a barrier between what health services traditionally do, which is clinical care, improving people's illnesses, abolishing their symptoms. "But what patients often tell us they want is help with quality of life. They want opportunities for training, for jobs, and for decent housing, and we have to take on that responsibility." His report called on the 60 mental heath trusts to consult with their local populations about what they needed. The report said mental health trusts should look at ways they could link up with agencies responsible for housing and employment. It also called for community teams to get involved in giving people more advice on how to reduce alcohol and drug use and look after their physical health. He also called for a renewed effort to reduce waiting lists for talking therapies such as cognitive behavioural therapy, which sometimes has waits of over 12 months. The NHS is currently rolling out a programme of providing people with access to computerised CBT and the government has set up 10 pilots to explore ways of speeding up access to talking therapies. Marjorie Wallace, chief executive of the mental health charity Sane, said extra investment was needed. "We are all too aware that with units and day centres closing and community services cut, the more seriously ill are still being neglected and put at risk. "The government goes forward with its policy of reform and choice, but there are thousands who have no choice of where to go in crisis and little chance of rehabilitation or safe, consistent care, both in or out of hospital." E-mail this to a friend Firms urged to help mentally ill Mental health wards 'unpleasant' Mental health services 'failing' Young 'failed' on mental health Fear over health of mentally ill 'My company helped me recover' 'The services were just not there' 'I'm so glad I didn't kill myself' 'I have washed my hands of NHS' 'I learned to live with voices' Kicking depression into touch The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Healthcare top priority for Brown 'Half' unaware of smoke ban date Surgeons warn on salon treatments MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW A pygmy conference in the rainforest Underground search for 'God particle' Google searches web's dark side Zimbabwe to chair major UN body Hero's return for Knox-Johnston Most popular now, in detail New plea on Madeleine's birthday Thatcher unveils Falklands arch Woman destroyed her unborn baby Eurovision's other 'Terry Wogans' Coalition troops missing in Iraq Most popular now, in detail Estonia's statue row: Hand of Moscow or sure vote-winner? Pygmies hold a conference in Congo's tropical rainforest We meet Eurovision commentators from around the continent Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
