http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/P/PAKISTAN_JUDICIAL_CRISIS?SITE=WWL&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	May 11, 12:29 PM EDT 15,000 Police Set for Pakistan Protests Buy AP Photo Reprints Associated Press Pop-up Link
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/I/IRAQ?SITE=WWL&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	May 11, 6:20 PM EDT Car Bombings Kill 23 at Baghdad Bridges The Toll: Coalition Casualties Since March 2003 U.S. Allows Mahdi Army a Security Role Iraqis Struggle in Police Training Four Years: AP Journalists Look Back Iraq and Vietnam: Contrasting Protests Land Mines From Iran-Iraq War Sold on Black Market Iraqi Outpost Tests War Strategy Iraq's Toll Felt Across U.S. Soldier Diagnosed Before Attack end soldier diagnosis --> end interactive icon section --> Latest photos from Iraq War Tensions Follow Bush to Commencement Iraqi Officials Discourage U.S. Pullout Car Bombings Kill 23 at Baghdad Bridges Radical Iraqi Cleric Said to Be in Iran White House Takes Hard Line on Spending Executive Summary: DOD Inspector General on Pre-Iraq War Intelligence Activities(2/9/2007) Unclassified National Intelligence Estimate Summary on Iraq (2/2/2007) Inspector General Report on Iraq Reconstruction (1/31/2007) Buy AP Photo Reprints BAGHDAD (AP) -- Twin suicide car bombers struck police checkpoints at bridges in a predominantly Shiite area of Baghdad on Friday, killing at least 23 people just hours after a series of U.S. raids on car bomb networks around the capital killed four suspected insurgents. The blasts underscored the difficulty U.S.-led forces were having in destroying the presumably Sunni insurgent cells that have stepped up car bombings in the capital since the U.S. began its security crackdown 12 weeks ago. "They have actually pushed back," U.S. spokesman Lt. Col. Christopher Garver said, referring to the insurgents. "We've been saying this all along, the enemy is determined." In a sign of that determination, the top U.S. commander in northern Iraq said he doesn't have enough troops to crush al-Qaida-led insurgents in Diyala, a province northeast of Baghdad and scene of recent sharp fighting. Maj. Gen. Benjamin R. Mixon had already received extra troops for Diyala and has increased attacks on militants. But he told Pentagon reporters in a video conference that he has asked Lt. Gen. Raymond Odierno, the No. 2 commander in Iraq, for more. "I laid out a plan for Gen. Odierno on the numbers of forces that I would need," Mixon said. "We have made progress ... we have taken terrain back from the enemy. Gen. Odierno intends to give me additional forces as they become available." Also Friday, the military announced that two U.S. soldiers were killed in separate bombings the day before. One soldier died in Diyala and the other in Baghdad, the military said. In all, at least 52 Iraqis were killed or found dead Friday in politically related violence. The suicide car bombers struck about 6 p.m. The driver of a sedan waiting in a line of cars at a police checkpoint near the old Diyala Bridge blew up his vehicle, partially collapsing the span, police said. About two minutes later the driver of a large fuel truck barreled toward a second checkpoint at the nearby new Diyala Bridge and set off his explosives, police said. The bridge was also damaged, and firefighters struggled to extinguish burning police and civilian cars that had been driving across during the attack. The blasts sent smoke billowing over the Shiite Zafaraniyah area of southeastern Baghdad. "Suddenly I heard a big explosion, and a huge fire rose from the checkpoint," said Abdullah Khalaf, who was selling sheep by the side of the road when the fuel truck raced past. He ran with his son to the checkpoint and saw the truck and three cars on fire, he said. "I saw one wounded woman asking for help while she was trapped inside a damaged car and three wounded policemen on the ground," he said. "There were pools of blood and pieces of flesh." The bombings at the bridges, which cross the Diyala River, a Tigris tributary, killed 23 people, including 11 police officers, and wounded 57 others, 26 of them police, police said. Baghdad's bridges repeatedly have been targeted by bombers. The most serious had been the April 12 truck bombing that collapsed the steel-girder Sarafiyah bridge, plunging cars into the water and killing 11 people. Two days later, a suicide car bombing killed 10 people at the Jadriyah bridge. Officials say al-Qaida-linked Sunni insurgents are using the bombings to try to provoke retaliatory violence from mainly Shiite militias that had agreed to lay low to avoid confrontations with Americans during the security crackdown. The blasts Friday came despite a series of measures aimed at reducing violence in the capital. U.S. and Iraqi forces have increased checkpoints and, in a bid to prevent bridge attacks, banned trucks capable of carrying more than one ton from crossing without strict searches. They also have long imposed a four-hour weekly driving ban during Friday prayers in Baghdad, but that ban ended on schedule three hours before the attacks. U.S. forces have also tried to break up the insurgent cells behind the bombings. "We have been focusing very heavily on the car bomb factories," Garver said. "We've been targeting the networks and the people that move the bombs and make the bombs as well." In one raid early Friday, troops came under fire as they approached a building near Taji, an air base 12 miles north of Baghdad, suspected of housing a cell responsible for car bomb attacks on civilians and security forces, the military said. The troops returned fire, killing four armed men, including one suspected of being a cell leader with ties to al-Qaida in Iraq's chiefs, the military said. Forces also carried out a series of raids in Baghdad and the northern city of Mosul on Thursday and Friday, detaining nine people suspected of producing bombs and smuggling foreign fighters into the country to carry out attacks against U.S. troops, the military said. In Washington, David Satterfield, Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice's top adviser for Iraq, said the United States knows for certain that radical Shiite cleric Muqtada al-Sadr is living next door in Iran. "We know he's out of the country, we don't (merely) think" so, Satterfield told The Associated Press, disputing aides to the anti-American religious and political leader. "He's in Iran, which is where he has been since mid-January." &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint.
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/A/AFGHAN_VIOLENCE?SITE=WWL&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	May 11, 2:03 PM EDT 10 Taliban Killed in New Afghan Fighting Landmine Education Becoming a Priority in Afghanistan A Children's Oasis in Kabul Rebirth of Afghan Art Kabul: Five Years After the Taliban's Fall 10 Taliban Killed in New Afghan Fighting Abducted Aid Worker Freed by Taliban Pakistan Fences Part of Afghan Border Afghan Bill Calls for Talks With Taliban Report: Afghan Who Shot Soldiers Was Ill Buy AP Photo Reprints KABUL, Afghanistan (AP) -- New airstrikes in a volatile southern Afghan region killed up to 10 Taliban fighters near where villagers say about 40 civilians died in a battle earlier this week, and the U.S.-led coalition said Friday that local Afghans feared more militant attacks. Taliban fighters ambushed a patrol of coalition and Afghan forces near Sangin in Helmand province Thursday evening, and gunfire and airstrikes killed 10 militants, said Eizatullah Khan, the Sangin district chief. A coalition spokesman, Sgt. 1st Class Dean Welch, put the toll at six Taliban killed. Two villagers from Sangin said they knew of no civilian casualties in the fight. Airstrikes called in by U.S. Special Forces fighting 200 Taliban militants north of Sangin on Tuesday killed 21 civilians, government officials said, while villagers said nearly 40 civilians were killed. The coalition confirmed that the battle caused civilian casualties, killing at least one child, and that a joint Afghan-U.S. team would investigate. Gen. Dan McNeill, the top NATO commander in Afghanistan, told NPR's "Morning Edition" that "it does appear there were civilian casualties" but that it wasn't clear what caused them. He said it was likely the Taliban militants had been firing on coalition forces from civilian homes. Elsewhere, the Taliban released French aid worker Eric Damfreville of Terre d'Enfance after five weeks in captivity, and the militant group credited the release to comments by France's President-elect Nicholas Sarkozy that his country's troops would eventually leave Afghanistan. Damfreville was kidnapped with a female colleague and three Afghans on April 3. The female worker was released last month. There was no word on the fate of the Afghans. The coalition said villagers around Sangin reported detaining 15 Taliban fighters Friday. The coalition said villagers "have become angered with Taliban enemy fighters due to the aftermath of the battle" on Tuesday and that they fear retaliation from the Taliban. Haji Pir Mohammad, a villager from Soro, said 37 people were killed and 21 wounded after aircraft bombed four civilian homes Tuesday. He said 12 family members were killed in one home. Another villager, Mohammad Asif, said earlier this week that 38 civilians died in the airstrikes. Khan, the Sangin district chief, said he did not think the death toll was that high. "There are always people who will say that 40 or 60 people were killed, but the civilian toll appears to be around 20," said Khan. Death tolls in remote battle sites in Afghanistan are nearly impossible to verify. The battle in Sangin was the third incident involving U.S. Special Forces that resulted in civilian deaths since March, sparking outrage among Afghans and a warning from President Hamid Karzai that such incidents can no longer be tolerated. NATO's International Security Assistance Force, which is tasked with counterinsurgency operations, has stressed that its forces were not involved in the incidents. The coalition, which commands U.S. Special Forces units, is tasked with counterterrorism. "We have different missions, different mandates," said Lt. Col. Maria Carl, a spokeswoman for NATO's ISAF. "Many of the ISAF troop-contributing countries are not part of the counterterrorism mission." The counterinsurgency fight involves separating fighters from the general population and helping to improve security and strengthen the Afghan government. The counterterrorism mission involves taking out al-Qaida or Taliban leaders and advanced cells of skilled fighters. Many counterterrorism missions target specific top-level leaders. In March, U.S. Marines Special Forces fired on civilians after a suicide attack in eastern Afghanistan, killing 19 civilians and wounding 50. Fighting late last month killed 50 civilians in the western province of Herat, Afghan and U.N. officials say. The upper house of parliament this week passed a resolution calling for a halt to military action by international troops unless coordinated with the Afghan government, and for negotiations with Taliban fighters. NATO spokesman Nicholas Lunt this week said negotiations should be encouraged if armed groups are prepared to follow Afghanistan's laws and constitution. McNeill told NPR that a cease-fire agreed to in the village of Musa Qala in Helmand province last year "in its best case it might have been a tactical error, in its worst case, might have been a strategic blunder." He said future agreements or negotiations were possible, but that "you'd have to have the right conditions." Elsewhere in southern Afghanistan, Taliban militants attacked two police checkpoints on the main Kabul-Kandahar highway in Zabul province, and 17 police were missing, said Ghulam Rabani, the deputy provincial police chief. Qari Yousef Ahmadi, a purported Taliban spokesman, said the fighters had kidnapped four police. In the east, a suicide or roadside bomb wounded two U.S. troops and damaged two vehicles, said Ghamia Khan, a spokesman for Paktika province's governor. Welch said the injuries were minor. Associated Press writer Noor Khan in Kandahar contributed to this report. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint.
http://hosted.ap.org/	News from The Associated Press
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/U/UN_ZIMBABWE?SITE=WWL&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	May 11, 2:10 PM EDT Zimbabwe Likely to Head Key U.N. Body By EDITH M. LEDERER Zimbabwe Likely to Head Key U.N. Body Zimbabwe Lawyer Decries Intimidation Police Assault Attorneys in Zimbabwe Correction: Corn Prices in Zimbabwe Zimbabwe's Mugabe Warns Catholic Bishops Buy AP Photo Reprints UNITED NATIONS (AP) -- Zimbabwe is likely to win approval to head a key U.N. body charged with promoting economic progress and environmental protection despite protests from some Western countries and human rights organizations. The 53-member Commission on Sustainable Development is scheduled to vote Friday on its new chair, U.N. officials said. The chair traditionally rotates among regions of the world, and it is Africa's choice this year. The continent has chosen Zimbabwe as its candidate, and the government has nominated Francis Nhema, the minister of environment and tourism for the post. "For Zimbabwe to lead any U.N. body is preposterous," said Jennifer Windsor, executive director of Freedom House, an independent nongovernmental organization that has monitored political rights and civil liberties in Zimbabwe since 1980. She said President Robert Mugabe's government "clearly has nothing but scorn for the U.N.'s founding principles of human rights, security and international law." Freedom House called on other members of the commission to block Zimbabwe's selection, but that appeared unlikely because of widespread support for the rotation system. Several European nations have called Zimbabwe's candidacy inappropriate, and the United States said Zimbabwe would not be an effective leader of the commission. "Zimbabwe is hardly a model of good governance or sustainable development or even responsible leadership," said Benjamin Chang, deputy spokesman for the U.S. Mission to the United Nations. "Our concern is that it's potential chairmanship would undermine the commission's credibility," he said. "The commission is to address themes such as sustainable agriculture and rural development at a time when Zimbabwe's government has turned the country from the breadbasket of southern African to the country with the highest rate of inflation and a decimated agriculture sector." The commission was established by the General Assembly in December 1992 to ensure effective follow-up of the Earth Summit held in Rio de Janeiro in June that year and implementation of key environmental and development agreements. The commission meets annually in New York, and its current session that opened Wednesday is focusing on energy for sustainable development, industrial development, air pollution and climate change. Mugabe, an 83-year-old former anti-colonial rebel who has ruled Zimbabwe since it gained independence from Britain in 1980, has acknowledged that police used violent methods against opposition supporters and killed at least one activist. He has warned alleged perpetrators of unrest that they would be "bashed" again if violence continued. Zimbabwe's ruling party has endorsed Mugabe as its candidate in next year's presidential election. Victory would allow him to stay in power until 2013, when he would be nearly 90. On Friday, the Pan African Parliament, a body of the African Union, voted to send a mission to Zimbabwe to investigate alleged human rights abuses "relating to the arrests and detention, assault and murder of political activists and members of the media." (This version corrects vote is in the Commission on Sustainable Development, not the General Assembly; UPDATES with U.S. comment, African parliament to send investigators to Zimbabwe.) &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint.
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/B/BRITAIN_BLAIR_BROWN?SITE=WWL&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	May 11, 3:09 PM EDT Brown Vows to Learn From Iraq Mistakes Latest News from Britain Iraqi President: U.S. Troops Should Stay Brown Vows to Learn From Iraq Mistakes No Disciplinary Action for London Police Blair Formally Endorses Brown to Be PM Britain to Hand Over Aboriginal Remains Blair Legacy: Reform, Peace, War Buy AP Photo Reprints LONDON (AP) -- Gordon Brown signaled a shift in policy in Iraq and a new vision for Britain as he launched his campaign Friday to become the country's next prime minister. Appearing before a standing ovation of hand-picked supporters only hours after Prime Minister Tony Blair formally endorsed his candidacy, Brown, who has waited more than a decade for his chance to lead the country, strode to the podium and confidently laid out a platform that promised to be both compassionate and tough. "I will listen, and I will learn. I will strive to meet people's aspirations," Brown said, pledging to win back disenchanted voters. "I want to lead a government humble enough to know its place." Brown signaled that as prime minister, he would abandon Blair's presidential style of leadership by restoring Parliament's authority in decisions such as when to go to war. Government must be accountable, he said. "I accept that mistakes have been made," Brown said, without offering specifics. "We will keep our obligations to the Iraqi people. These are obligations that are part of U.N. resolution, they are in support of a democracy. I do think that over the next few months the emphasis will shift." The question is how much Brown will shift Britain's role in the Iraq war, which has divided the country. He indicated he wants to devote more time and resources toward the creation of jobs and basic services for the Iraqi people. "There are too many people in Iraq who don't have a stake in the economic future of the country, too many people unemployed, too many people who are not seeing services developed ... and therefore too many people who don't feel loyalty to the regime," he said. Brown did not outline specifics on his Iraq policy. He said he will make his first trip to Iraq in the coming weeks to inspect the situation. Blair announced in February that his government - the top U.S. ally in the Iraq war - will reduce its troop level by 1,600 to about 5,500 by spring, but will retain a presence in southern Iraq until at least 2008. A total of 148 British soldiers have died since the 2003 invasion. Brown also promised to be strong on defense and security. "And obviously we've got to do more to win the battle of hearts and minds against al-Qaida terrorism," he said. Brown's speech at a converted Edwardian-era school in central London was the first act in his campaign to become Labour Party chief - and as a result, British leader. It also marked Brown's first effort to emerge from the shadow of the telegenic Blair - a challenge for the wonkish Brown, who must show he can connect with voters. The campaign to revamp the Treasury chief's rumpled image hit an immediate snag when the teleprompters he was using obscured his face for the live television audience. He seemed more relaxed shaking hands of the party faithful in later televised appearances. Brown took the London subway, known as the Tube, to the event, impressing at least one Londoner, 20-year-old student Rohini Simbodyal. "We got on the Tube and people were looking at Gordon Brown," Simbodyal said. "People were amazed, saying, 'It's Gordon.' But everyone was very British, they looked and then looked away. A few people came up and shook his hand and said, 'Good luck.'" "He was just like a normal guy," she said. President Bush also praised Brown's forthrightness, describing him as "easy to talk to." But it remains to be seen how close the two men might become. Brown has been more reserved in his comments about Bush, whose alliance with Blair cost the Labour Party votes. Bush and Blair have had a close relationship, speaking regularly by phone and videoconference and getting together for talks at least twice a year since 2003. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice said Brown was aware of the dangers surrounding failure in Iraq, and she didn't expect U.S.-British relations to change dramatically. "Britain and America will always be friends and I know that we will work very, very well with Gordon Brown when he becomes prime minister," Rice told the British Broadcasting Corp. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint.
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/I/IRAN_NORTH_KOREA?SITE=WWL&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	May 11, 12:39 PM EDT Iran Seeks Improved Ties With N. Korea Iran Seeks Improved Ties With N. Korea Iran, U.S. Court Gulf Arab Allies Denmark: Iran Would Compensate Attack Iranian-American Being Held in Prison Iranian Fighter Jet Crash Kills 1 Ahmadinejad's Letter to President Bush Buy AP Photo Reprints TEHRAN, Iran (AP) -- Iran's foreign minister said North Korea's debts stand in the way of improving ties between the two countries - both U.S. foes under international pressure over their nuclear programs. It was the first time an official of either country referred to their dealings, which go back to at least the 1980s but are not publicly known. The extent of North Korea's debts to Iran remain unknown. North Korea's "debts to Tehran are among the obstacles in the way of cooperation," the official IRNA news agency quoted Foreign Minister Manouchehr Mottaki as saying Friday. "The two countries can find a formula to remove this obstacle." Mottaki met late Thursday with North Korean acting Foreign Minister Kim Yong Il. He added that Iran was still interested in improving ties with North Korea "in the fields of politics, economics and culture" with North Korea. Kim said his country was ready to cooperate with Iran "in various economic fields" and support the country on the international level. On Friday, Vice President Dick Cheney issued a warning to Iran while aboard an aircraft carrier in the Persian Gulf, saying the United States would join allies "to prevent Iran from gaining nuclear weapons and dominating this region." The U.N. Security Council has imposed two sets of sanctions against Iran for its refusal to suspend uranium enrichment, a process that can produce fuel for nuclear reactors or the material for atomic bombs. Iran, which denies it is secretly trying to develop nuclear weapons, has another deadline later this month to freeze enrichment or face tighter sanctions. The Security Council imposed sanctions on North Korea last year for conducting its first nuclear weapons test. North Korea has since refused to act on a February pledge to start dismantling its nuclear program in exchange for economic aid and political concessions. The North Korean government is believed to have cooperated with Iran militarily since early 1980s, when Saddam Hussein waged an eight-year war against Iran. Officials of the two countries regularly meet. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint.
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/P/POPE_BRAZIL?SITE=WWL&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	May 11, 6:37 PM EDT Pope Canonizes First Brazilian Saint By VICTOR L. SIMPSON Pope Canonizes First Brazilian Saint Pope News Conference Causes Stir Pope to Canonize First Brazilian Saint Pope Visits Brazil, Church Loses Ground Official Says Amazon Dams on Fast Track Pope Canonizes First Brazilian Saint Pope News Conference Causes Stir Wartime Pope Edges Closer to Sainthood Pope Says He Suppports Excommunication Pope to Canonize First Brazilian Saint Pope Benedict's trip to Latin America Buy AP Photo Reprints Justice Delayed: Latin America's Dirty Wars Leaning Left: Political Changes in Latin America 2 Men Leave Russia Embassy in Costa Rica Pope Canonizes First Brazilian Saint Haiti Immigrants Angry With Boat Sinking Man Storms Russia's Costa Rica Embassy Cuba Accuses U.S. of Violating Treaties SAO PAULO, Brazil (AP) -- Pope Benedict XVI castigated popular culture for promoting sexual immorality Friday as he canonized Brazil's first native-born saint before hundreds of thousands of faithful and a sea of flags in the world's largest Roman Catholic nation. Holding up Friar Antonio de Sant'Anna Galvao as a model of rectitude and humility "in an age so full of hedonism," Benedict said the world needs clear souls and pure minds, adding: "It is necessary to oppose those elements of the media that ridicule the sanctity of marriage and virginity before marriage." Benedict didn't elaborate, but his message for Brazilian Catholics reflected his uneasiness with the impact of popular culture on young people. Earlier this year, Benedict declared that "any trend to produce programs and products - including animated films and video games - which in the name of entertainment exalt violence and portray anti-social behavior or the trivialization of human sexuality is a perversion." Later, meeting with the country's 430 bishop's in Sao Paulo's cathedral, Benedict lamented that Brazil is in the midst of "difficult times for the church" amid "aggressive proselytizing" by born-again Protestant congregations. The census says the percentage of Brazilians characterizing themselves as Catholics dropped from 89 percent in 1980 to 74 percent in 2000, while those calling themselves evangelical Protestants rose from 7 percent to 15 percent. Benedict's message on immorality could be a tough sell in hedonistic Brazil. Sex before marriage is common. Scantily clad actresses are the norm on hugely popular TV soap operas, and most women on Brazil's famed beaches wear bikinis that leave so little to the imagination. "Nothing could be more countercultural than his message in Brazil, the land of the thong," said David Gibson, author of "The Rule of Benedict: Pope Benedict XVI and His Battle with the Modern World." Brazilian news media said the crowd reached about 1 million - as church officials had hoped for - although there were large empty spaces on the airfield in South America's largest city. Benedict pronounced the sainthood of Galvao, a Franciscan monk credited by the church with 5,000 miracle cures, while he sat on a throne of Brazilian hardwood, surrounded by Latin American bishops and choirs of hundreds. Galvao is the first native-born saint from Brazil, home to more than 120 million of the planet's 1.1 billion Catholics, and the 10th to be canonized by Benedict. His canonization continues a push for saints in Latin America and elsewhere in the developing world that began under John Paul II, who sought role models as part of the church's worldwide reach. John Paul canonized more saints than all of his predecessors combined. "Do you realize how big this is?" asked Herminia Fernandes, who joined the multitude at the airfield for the open-air Mass. "It's huge, this pope is visiting Brazil for the first time and at the same time he is giving us a saint. It's a blessing." Galvao, who died in 1822, began a tradition among Brazilian Catholics of handing out tiny rice-paper pills, inscribed with a Latin prayer, to people seeking cures for everything from cancer to kidney stones. Although doctors and even some Catholic clergy dismiss the pills as placebos or superstitious fakery, cloistered nuns still toil in the Sao Paulo monastery where Galvao is buried, preparing thousands of the pills for free daily distribution. Each one carries these words: "After birth, the Virgin remained intact. Mother of God, intercede on our behalf." After canonizing Galvao, the pope hugged Sandra Grossi de Almeida, 37, and her son Enzo, 7. She is one of two Brazilian women certified by the Vatican as divinely inspired miracles justifying the sainthood. She had a uterine malformation that should have made it impossible for her to carry a child for more than four months, but after taking the pills, she gave birth to Enzo. "I have faith," Grossi recently told The Associated Press. "I believe in God, and the proof is right here." Benedict's trip has so far focused on reinforcing church doctrine on abortion, sexual morality and euthanasia. At a rally Thursday night, he instructed young Catholics to avoid premarital sex, remain faithful once they are married and to promote life from "its beginning to natural end." The latter was - at least in part - a reference to abortion, the issue that has dominated Benedict's first papal visit to Latin America. The pope also warned against drug use, violence, corruption and the temptations of wealth and power - themes sure to resonate across the region. Benedict, now 80, a pianist and lover of Mozart, showed his suspicions about popular culture in the 1990s when he acknowledged publicly he was opposed to a performance by Bob Dylan for John Paul II in Bologna, Italy. He said Dylan and other rock performers at the event were committed to a different message than John Paul's and he saw no reason for such so-called "prophets" to intervene. The pope heads Friday evening to the shrine city of Aparecida, about 100 miles from Sao Paulo, where he will visit a drug treatment center Saturday and open a conference of Latin American and Caribbean bishops on Sunday. Aparecida is the most important Catholic religious site in Brazil, home to the mammoth Basilica of Aparecida and the 3-foot statue of a black Virgin Mary called "Our Lady Who Appeared," the patron saint of Brazil. The statue was pulled from a river in the 18th century by poor fishermen who were not catching any fish, and then caught loads in their nets. Miracles were subsequently attributed to the statue, and so many pilgrims flocked to Aparecida that the church built the basilica and inaugurated it as a shrine in 1955. Associated Press writers Tales Azzoni and Alan Clendenning contributed to this report. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint.
http://apdigitalnews.com/privacy.html	AP Digital | Terms of Use
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/J/JAPAN_BREAST_FEEDING?SITE=WWL&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	May 11, 2:07 PM EDT Japan Scraps Plan to Urge Breast-Feeding Japan Scraps Plan to Urge Breast-Feeding Japan Has Drop Box for Unwanted Babies Report: Japan Moves Toward Resuming Aid Offices of Cult Splinter Group Raided Japan Rules Against War Claims Buy AP Photo Reprints TOKYO (AP) -- A Japanese proposal to urge mothers to breast-feed their babies and sing lullabies to children was scrapped after critics warned it was too intrusive, a news report said. The proposal, which would also have recommended parents limit their children's television viewing and promote age-appropriate morals, was to have been announced Friday by an education reform panel named by the government. But experts and some government officials said the measure was "beyond intrusive," and interfered in people's private lives, Kyodo News agency said Thursday, citing unnamed individuals close to the panel. Japanese breastfeeding rates are much lower than those in other developed countries, according to various studies cited in a 2006 article in the International Breastfeeding Journal. The comparitive studies said in 2000 the full breastfeeding rate in Japan for infants aged 1 to 2 months was 44.8 percent compared to the U.S. rate of 54.7 percent at 1 month and and Sweden at 80.2 percent at 2 months. Another study of infants aged 3 to 6 months in Nishinomiya City, Japan, found that 43.8 percent of infants were fed breast milk only. These breast-feeding rates still remain lower than the U.S with 47 percent breastfed at 3 months. Education reform has been a key party of conservative Prime Minister Shinzo Abe's agenda since he took office in September. In December, Parliament passed a reform measure that called on schools to "to cultivate an attitude that respects tradition and culture, that loves the nation and home country." The legislation reflected concerns voiced by Abe that Japan's long stretch of economic prosperity has eroded the morals and cooperative spirit of prewar Japanese. Concerns have also been rife about Japan's falling birth rate. Earlier this month, the government said that Japan's child population has fallen to a record low since the end of World War II. To encourage more couples to have children, Abe's government has adopted plans for increasing child care, promoting gender equality and encouraging companies to allow staff more time for family responsibilities. But many opt to have few or no children because of the high cost of raising them and the persisting social expectations for women to quit their jobs after giving birth. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint.
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/K/KOREAS_TALKS?SITE=WWL&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	May 11, 8:10 AM EDT Koreas Adopt Military Agreement Buy AP Photo Reprints North Korea's Missile Arsenal The Last Stalinist State Iran Seeks Improved Ties With N. Korea Chances Slim for Return of USS Pueblo N. Korea Wants U.S. Bank to Handle Funds SEOUL, South Korea (AP) -- North and South Korea adopted a military agreement Friday enabling the first train crossing of their heavily armed border in more than half a century, the South's Defense Ministry said. The rail test, planned for Thursday, would be the first time trains have crossed the tightly sealed border since inter-Korean rail links were severed in the middle of the 1950-53 Korean War. Two tracks have been reconnected as part of a series of reconciliation projects launched since the two sides held the first-ever summit of their leaders in 2000. The test would be just a single run of trains along the restored tracks on each side of the peninsula, with regular train service between the two sides unlikely to begin anytime soon. The two Koreas had agreed in principle on security for the rail test earlier this week, but the adoption of a formal agreement came only after more than 30 hours of extended talks that stretched into Friday due to unspecified sticking points. South Korea hopes the inter-Korean railways could ultimately be linked to Russia's Trans-Siberian railroad, and could allow an overland route connecting the peninsula to Europe - significantly cutting delivery times for freight that now requires sea transport. Economic officials from both sides agreed last month to conduct the train run, but North Korea's military had the final say on whether it goes forward because such a border crossing requires security arrangements. The security accord sets out protocols for the train crossings next week, including what areas of the border should open and for how long, as well as pledges from each side to guarantee travelers' safety. South Korea had hoped to expand the agreement to cover similar future border crossings, but the North refused. The two sides also agreed in principle to set up a joint fishing area around their disputed western sea border and continue talks on that issue and other measures aimed at preventing accidental clashes in the area, according to a joint statement summarizing the negotiations' outcome. North Korea doesn't recognize the current sea border demarcated by the United Nations at the end of the 1950-53 Korean War, and has long claimed it should be further south. The waters around the border are rich fishing grounds and boats from the two Koreas routinely jostle for position during the May-June crab-catching season. In 1999 and 2002, their navies fought deadly skirmishes, killing several sailors and sinking six ships. The two sides agreed to hold the next general-level talks in July and continue discussions to set up a defense ministers' meeting, the joint statement said. This week's talks were the first high-level military contacts between the two sides in a year. The two Koreas remain technically at war because the Korean War ended in a cease-fire that has never been replaced with a peace treaty. Ties between the two sides have warmed significantly since the 2000 summit, although they suffered during the international standoff over North Korea's nuclear ambitions. Pyongyang conducted its first-ever nuclear test in October, chilling relations with the South. But the South began reaching out again to the North after Pyongyang agreed in February to shut down its nuclear reactor under an agreement with the United States and four other neighboring countries. Still, the communist regime missed an April deadline to close the reactor because of a separate financial dispute with the United States, and it is unclear when it will close down the facility. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint.
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/G/GERMANY_SEPT_11_TRIAL?SITE=WWL&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	May 11, 2:35 PM EDT Sept. 11 Suspect Loses Appeal in Germany Sept. 11 Suspect Loses Appeal in Germany Protests in Germany Over Raids Shredded East German Files Reassembled Museum Created for Germans Who Hid Jews Clemency Plea by German Terrorist Fails Buy AP Photo Reprints BERLIN (AP) -- A Moroccan convicted of helping three of the Sept. 11 suicide pilots in their plot lost his final chance to appeal in Germany when the country's top criminal court announced Friday that it had refused to hear his case. Mounir el Motassadeq, 33, was convicted in November of being an accessory to the murder of the 246 passengers and crew on the four jetliners used in the 2001 terrorist attacks in the U.S. He was sentenced to 15 years in prison, the maximum penalty possible under German law. Germany's Federal Court of Justice said in a short statement Friday that it had decided on May 2 that el Motassadeq's appeal was "unfounded." "Therefore the verdict against the defendant el Motassadeq is legally binding," the court said. It did not provide further details. The decision was the final step in what has been a long trip through the German legal system that began when el Motassadeq was arrested two months after the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks. He has gone through two full trials. Even though all appeals are now exhausted, el Motassadeq's attorney Udo Jacob said he would petition the original Hamburg court to reopen the case, which it is highly unlikely to do. He also said he would take the case to the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, France, arguing that el Motassadeq did not receive a fair trial because of the lack of evidence from al-Qaida suspects in U.S. custody. "He knew nothing of the attack plans, but how can one prove that one didn't know something?" Jacob said. A spokeswoman for the Court of Human Rights, Stephanie Klein, refused to speculate on whether it would hear the case, but said it has taken up cases in the past concerning witness issues. Dominic Puopolo Jr., whose mother died aboard one of the hijacked airliners, said he was pleased with the German court's decision. "It's been a long journey and it's good to know we're getting close to the end," he said, adding he was now moving ahead with a civil suit against the Moroccan. "We're not going to walk away from this - ever," Puopolo said in a telephone interview from Miami Beach, Fla., where he lives. "My mother's dead and she's never coming back and this person's actions changed the lives of thousands of families. It's unacceptable." El Motassadeq was first convicted and sentenced to the maximum 15 years in prison in 2003, but that verdict was overturned by a federal court the following year, largely because of the lack of testimony from witnesses in U.S. custody. At a retrial in 2005, the U.S. provided limited summaries from the interrogation of, among others, Ramzi Binalshibh, a suspected liaison between the Hamburg hijackers and al-Qaida. The Hamburg court acquitted el Motassadeq of direct involvement in the attacks, but sentenced him to seven years for belonging to a terrorist group. Prosecutors appealed the decision, and in November the Federal Court of Justice ruled that evidence showed el Motassadeq was aware Hamburg-based hijackers Mohamed Atta, Marwan al-Shehhi and Ziad Jarrah planned to hijack and crash planes, even though he might not have known the specifics of the plot. It convicted him of 246 counts of accessory to murder in addition to the membership in a terrorist organization charge. Judge Klaus Tolksdorf ruled then that el Motassadeq had helped "watch the attackers' backs and conceal them" by helping them keep up the appearance of being regular university students - paying tuition and rent fees, and transferring money. Tolksdorf said it was irrelevant to el Motassadeq's guilt whether he knew of the planned timing, dimension or targets of the attacks. In January, Germany's constitutional court refused to hear a separate appeal in which el Motassadeq's attorneys claimed that evidence from other terrorism suspects was not properly considered at his trial. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint.
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/P/PALESTINIANS_GAZA?SITE=CAACS&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	Auburn Journal : AP Stories Place a Class Ad Search past 14 days Search for older articles Letters to the Editor Looking Behind the Scenes May 11, 6:03 PM EDT Hamas-Fatah Fighting Worst in 2 Months Hamas-Fatah Fighting Worst in 2 Months Olmert Wants to Appear Before War Panel Jerusalem Plans New Settlements in East Israel and Egypt Discuss Arab Peace Plan Palestinian Fetus Killed in Crossfire Hints of al-Qaida Role in BBC Kidnapping Bank: Obstacles for Palestinian Economy Hamas 'Mickey Mouse' Wants Islam Takeover Conflict in the Middle East Buy AP Photo Reprints GAZA CITY, Gaza Strip (AP) -- Hamas gunmen opened fire Friday on forces of the rival Fatah and injured at least six people throughout the Gaza Strip in another setback to a new security plan aimed at halting the wave of violence plaguing the chaotic coastal area. With 10 Palestinians wounded over a two-day period, it was the worst factional fighting since the formation of the Hamas-Fatah unity government nearly two months ago. Despite the growing tensions, it was unlikely the coalition would break apart soon because neither party can govern alone or is eager to go to elections. Later Friday, six members of Hamas' militia were wounded in a family feud that appeared unrelated to its rivalry with Fatah, Palestinian security officials said. The factional tensions flared Thursday after Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas ordered the deployment of about 3,000 police in Gaza City. The troops took up positions at main intersections and government buildings. Hamas was upset that Abbas, the Fatah leader, has not coordinated the new deployment with them. On Friday, Prime Minister Ismail Haniyeh canceled a scheduled meeting with senior security commanders in an apparent show of displeasure. Despite the renewed tensions, Abbas was to leave Gaza for the West Bank on Saturday. After many months of clashes between the sides, some Gazans are skeptical that the new police deployment would stem the unrest. "They look good. But can they do anything? I doubt that very much," Badar Salim, 45, a Gaza City merchant said. "I hope this is something real, not just a show for the media." The plan includes a joint operations room to be staffed by members of various security forces as well a joint security unit, said Ghazi Hamad, Haniyeh's spokesman. Hamad also said security commanders would hold meetings with leaders of Gaza's political parties and militant groups to maintain calm. "Lawlessness and chaos have become very dangerous in Gaza, and all the participants are determined to end the chaos and restore security," he said. Friday's clashes began before dawn when a minibus filled with Hamas gunmen opened fire at a Fatah security force manning a new roadblock. Palestinian medical officials said at least four people were wounded in the exchange. In another attack, gunmen opened fire at the national security building in central Gaza and in the northern Gaza Strip two men were wounded when Hamas gunmen opened fire at their car. Since Israel withdrew from Gaza in 2005, the area has experienced a wave of infighting, armed robberies, deadly family feuds and kidnappings. Attempts to halt the violence have failed, and the interior minister in the new Palestinian coalition government, Hani Kawasmeh, has threatened to resign because his plan for restoring security has not been carried out. Hamas and Fatah formed a unity government in March with the aim of restoring calm. The alliance has brought a lull in factional fighting, but crime and violence remain rampant in Gaza. Despite their power-sharing deal, Hamas and Fatah remain at odds over control over security forces. Hamas has its own force, and it was unclear how it would fit into the security plan. Fatah has long demanded that the Hamas force be dismantled, but Hamas has refused. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. Contents of this site are all Gold Country Media. All rights reserved.
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/C/CHINA_TRADE_SURPLUS?SITE=CAACS&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	Auburn Journal : AP Stories Place a Class Ad Search past 14 days Search for older articles Letters to the Editor Looking Behind the Scenes May 11, 4:11 PM EDT China's April Trade Surplus Nearly $17B China's April Trade Surplus Nearly $17B Hu Expresses Hope for U.S. Trade Talks China Begins U.S. 'Buying Mission' Shanghai Stock Index Surges Past 4.000 Review of U.S.-China Trade China's April Trade Surplus Nearly $17B Hu Expresses Hope for U.S. Trade Talks China Begins U.S. 'Buying Mission' South Korea, EU Launch Trade Talks ASEAN, EU Agree to Launch Trade Talks China Names Special Envoy for Darfur China to Start Mobile Food Testing Japan Rules Against War Claims China: Pig Disease Could Spread China Zeroes in on Food and Drug Safety Buy AP Photo Reprints BEIJING (AP) -- China's monthly trade surplus more than doubled in April to nearly $17 billion, the government said Friday, adding to pressure on Beijing ahead of closely watched talks with Washington on its swollen trade gap. The April trade gap of $16.88 billion was below February's $23.7 billion - the second-highest level on record - but in line with steady increases in monthly trade surpluses over the past year. Chinese and U.S. trade envoys are due to meet May 23-24 in Washington for talks on Beijing's surpluses, currency controls, product piracy and other contentious issues. Some U.S. lawmakers are pushing for punitive tariffs on imports of Chinese goods if Beijing fails to ease currency controls that critics say keep its currency undervalued, giving exporters an unfair price advantage and adding to China's trade surpluses. Washington is hoping the "strategic economic dialogue," led by Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson and Chinese Vice Premier Wu Yi, helps to mollify critics and avert disruption in trade ties. Chinese President Hu Jintao made an unusual personal lobbying effort for the talks this week, expressing hopes for "positive progress" in a phone call with President Bush. The Chinese government say it is not actively pursuing such large surpluses and has taken steps to rein in exports. Beijing also is trying to reduce reliance on exports by encouraging more domestic consumer spending, which could boost imports and narrow the trade gap. But an official campaign under way to cool off an economic boom has cut imports of factory equipment and other goods while foreign demand for low-cost Chinese products has surged ahead. Exports in April rose 26.8 percent, while imports rose 21.3 percent, the General Administration of Customs said on its Web site. The government reported a monthly trade surplus of just $6.9 billion in March. Economists had projected a sharp jump in the trade surplus from March to April. They said the February surge was caused by exporters shipping more goods early to beat an expected change in taxes, leaving less to ship in March. The April figure raised the country's accumulated trade surplus so far this year to $63 billion, the customs agency said. China reported a global trade surplus in 2006 of $177.5 billion. The Asian Development Bank said in a report in March that figure could balloon to more than $250 billion next year. Last year, the United States reported a record $232.5 billion trade deficit with China. China's gap with the United States is bigger than its global surplus because it runs deficits with other countries. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. Contents of this site are all Gold Country Media. All rights reserved.
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/S/SERBIA_GOVERNMENT?SITE=CAACS&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	Auburn Journal : AP Stories Place a Class Ad Search past 14 days Search for older articles Letters to the Editor Looking Behind the Scenes May 11, 3:48 PM EDT Pro-Democracy Parties to Lead in Serbia War crimes tribunal sentences Serb leader in Croatia Pro-Democracy Parties to Lead in Serbia Doubts About Serbia's European Role Milosevic Ally Gains Key Serbian Post Buy AP Photo Reprints BELGRADE, Serbia (AP) -- Serbia's pro-democracy parties agreed Friday to form a new power-sharing government, excluding ultranationalists who supported late President Slobodan Milosevic and threatened to turn the troubled Balkan nation away from the West. The United States and European Union were alarmed this week by the election of a Milosevic admirer to the position of parliamentary speaker - the No. 2 post in the country - fearing a resurgence of the ultranationalists who led Serbia to four bloody wars in the 1990s. The Radicals are staunchly anti-Western and used to back Milosevic's aggressive policies in the Balkans, while their own boss, Vojislav Seselj, is awaiting trial at the U.N. war crimes tribunal in The Hague, Netherlands. The Radicals also oppose the Western-backed U.N. plan for the Serbian province of Kosovo, which envisages internationally supervised self-rule. But President Boris Tadic said in a statement late Friday that three pro-Western parties had signed the power-sharing agreement, ensuring the Radicals would not have a place in the government. He named current caretaker Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica as the premier designate, and said a parliament session to approve the new government will be held Sunday, state TV said. Dusan Petrovic, a Democratic Party negotiator, said the agreement was reached during an overnight meeting between Tadic and Kostunica, and it includes an initiative to replace Tomislav Nikolic as parliament speaker during Sunday's assembly session. Kostunica's conservatives had supported Nikolic's election to the post on Tuesday. Earlier Friday, Nikolic told The Associated Press that he would resign rather than be replaced. He also said he believed the power-sharing deal would not last long and the nationalists would triumph in the next general election in the country. "The only thing keeping them together is pressure and blackmail (from abroad)," Nikolic said. "They do not share the same ideology. ... We will have another crisis soon." If the government is not formed by Tuesday, new general elections would have to be called, which would benefit the Radicals who are already the biggest group in the parliament. A Jan. 21 parliamentary vote was inconclusive; no party achieved a majority to rule alone. U.S. Undersecretary of State Nicholas Burns, attending a Balkan summit in Croatia, welcomed the power-sharing agreement, saying Washington supports "any democratic government that doesn't include the Radicals." "I think it's very clear that if the Radicals come back to power, that would seriously harm relations of Serbia with the United States and with all of the European countries," he said. The European Union Enlargement Commissioner, Olli Rehn, said that once the pro-democratic government is in place, the EU would "immediately" restart its pre-membership talks with Serbia. "I trust the leaders of Serbia's democratic forces now realize their responsibility and choose a European future for Serbia, instead of letting the country fall back to its nationalist past," he said in a statement. The talks were suspended a year ago due to Belgrade's failure to extradite Gen. Ratko Mladic, a wartime commander sought by the U.N. tribunal in The Hague for atrocities during the 1992-95 war in Bosnia. Rehn said the EU still insists on Mladic's arrest, adding that talks would not be completed without his extradition. Nikolic said he believed the Tadic-Kostunica government would split over the fate of Kosovo - Serbia's historic heartland that would be granted supervised independence according to a Western-backed resolution to be voted on at the U.N. Security Council in the coming weeks. Western nations support independence for Kosovo, rejecting Serbia's offer of a broad autonomy for the ethnic Albanian-dominated region. Russia, however, has sided with Serbia in the dispute, leading to fears of a standoff in the Security Council. But Nikolic ruled out going to a war over Kosovo, saying "Serbia, of course, cannot start wars nor does it want to." "But we have to tell the world that we will never accept independence for Kosovo and that we will forever consider it part of Serbia's territory," he added. Serbia also took over the six-month Council of Europe chairmanship Friday. But questions prevailed over Serbia's suitability to run the continent's premier human rights watchdog because it has failed to meet its main obligation to the council - the arrest of Mladic. Council of Europe chief Terry Davis defended Serbia's chairmanship, saying that traditionally every member state in turn gets to run the organization. Associated Press reporters Jovana Gec in Belgrade, Snjezana Vukic in Zagreb, Croatia, and Jan Sliva in Strasbourg, France, contributed to this story. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. Contents of this site are all Gold Country Media. All rights reserved.
http://hosted.ap.org/	News from The Associated Press
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/C/CAMEROON_CRASH_PROBE?SITE=CAACS&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	Auburn Journal : AP Stories Place a Class Ad Search past 14 days Search for older articles Letters to the Editor Looking Behind the Scenes May 11, 6:36 PM EDT Doomed Jet Took Off While Others Waited AP Photo/SCHALK VAN ZUYDAM Buy AP Photo Reprints DOUALA, Cameroon (AP) -- Three jetliners sat ready for takeoff at Douala International Airport, their crews waiting for a massive thunderstorm to move away. Just a few minutes past midnight, all three radioed air traffic control to check the weather report. They were told the storm would take another hour to dissipate, and the Cameroon Airlines and Royal Air Maroc crews opted to wait it out. But Capt. Francis Mbatia Wamwea of Kenya Airways Flight 507, already delayed for an hour and carrying scores of passengers with onward connections to catch, judged the weather had improved sufficiently to permit departure for Nairobi, Kenya. Less than a minute after takeoff early on May 5, the Boeing 737-900 slammed into a jungle swamp during a raging storm, killing all 105 passengers and the nine-member crew. The dead included Dr. Albert Henn, an AIDS expert who worked at Harvard University and had a home in Barnstable, Mass.; businesspeople from China, India and South Africa; Cameroonian merchants; a Tanzanian returning from peacekeeping duties in Ivory Coast; a U.N. refugee worker from Togo; and Anthony Mitchell, a Nairobi-based correspondent for The Associated Press. The six-month-old plane was of the newest generation of the world's most popular airliner, which has an excellent safety record. It was only the second time a 737-800 has crashed with the loss of all on board. In September, a plane belonging to Brazil's Gol Airlines collided with an executive jet over the Amazon jungle, killing 154. After Wamwea gave the go-ahead, the Kenyan Airways crew radioed the tower, pulled away from the gate, and taxied toward Runway 12, heading roughly southeast from the airport. The Douala tower cleared the flight for takeoff a few minutes later, instructing it to report on reaching 5,000 feet. The pilot acknowledged the clearance from the tower. It's unclear what time that final voice transmission was received from the jet, but the plane nose-dived into a swamp on the outskirts of Cameroon's commercial hub only 30 seconds after becoming airborne. Wamwea's decision to depart into one of the violent tropical storms that regularly ravage equatorial Africa during the rainy season was most likely the pivotal factor in a sequence of events that led to the crash, said a Cameroonian investigator and a government pilot assisting the probe of Flight 507, both speaking on condition of anonymity because the inquiry was still under way. Kenya Airways chief executive Titus Naikuni said investigators would have to make the final assessment. The probe was likely to take months. "We don't want to start speculating here," he said Friday in Kenya. "So whether the pilot did the wrong thing or the right thing, I cannot answer that." Investigators said they cannot yet discount other factors, including mechanical failure, pilot disorientation or even sabotage. But no sign of a blast or fire has been found so far by the search teams, which include seven experts from the U.S. National Transportation Safety Board and two Boeing representatives. Flight crews are responsible for the decision whether to take off or land in bad weather, usually depending on guidelines from their airline. And while air traffic control can take measures to halt flights, including closing down airports, such drastic actions are highly unusual outside the northern hemisphere, where heavy winter snows can block runways and bring traffic to a standstill. The Douala airport is not equipped with weather radar, but the 737-800 is. Pilots routinely take off into stormy weather and then rely on radar to guide them around the towering thunderheads that can cause structural damage to aircraft. Controllers had told the jet to turn slightly to the left after leaving the runway, a Kenyan official said. The location of the wreckage indicated the jet turned to the right, a sign that the pilot may have changed course because of the weather the plane encountered. Wamwea, 53, was an experienced flier with about 8,500 hours on jets. He had joined Kenya Airways 20 years ago and enjoyed the reputation of a diligent and professional pilot. The co-pilot, Andrew Kiuru, was only 23 and had joined the airline a year ago after completing flight school in South Africa. The cockpit voice recorder has not been found, so no details of the final exchanges between Wamwea and Kiuru are available. It remains unclear who was flying the plane at the time, but Wamwea would have had the ultimate authority. The flight data recorder has been recovered. Two minutes after Flight 507 would have been expected to reach 5,000 feet, the point at which it had been instructed to check in, Douala Area Control Center issued a distress message. This is normal practice by air traffic control when unable to establish immediate contact with an aircraft, a frequent occurrence. But controllers, who had lost sight of the plane fairly quickly because of the storm, were not unduly worried because the plane had fuel for six hours of flying time. A search was launched at 2:44 a.m. when a French radar station sent in a message that an airplane distress signal had been picked up. A Cameroonian air force plane and two helicopters first flew over a region far to the south, basing their search on the distress signal that was in fact hundreds of miles away from the actual crash. It is unclear why the signal was so far off the mark, but it appears the plane's emergency locator beacon's final signal was garbled - indicating a false position. The wreckage was found 40 hours after takeoff by a hunter who chanced upon it in a mangrove swamp. The site is less than 3 1/2 miles from Runway 12. Experts calculate that the plane was in the air for only 30 seconds and had never climbed over 3,000 feet. Commercial jets regularly fly over the area, one of several standard departure routes from Runway 12. Villagers living nearby said they heard planes passing overhead during the night - and a particularly loud boom that sounded like a thunderclap. Since there were no witnesses to the crash, investigators have pieced together the known facts and formulated several theories on what could have happened. The wreckage indicated the plane flew nose-first into the ground at a nearly 90-degree angle. It was found buried deep in a crater of reddish-brown muck with only tiny bits of the rear fuselage and wings left above ground. Trees nearby were smashed, but otherwise the jungle canopy was intact, making the site almost invisible from the air. Investigators said the nose dive indicated that a violent gust of wind may have flipped the airliner over, throwing it into a fatal fall. Although modern jets can usually fly through storm clouds, storms in Africa are particularly violent at this time of the year, investigators said. The location of the wreckage also indicates the pilot was banking sharply to the right. This would have exposed the raised left wing to the gust, investigators said. The low altitude would have made it impossible to recover from the resulting dive. (This version CORRECTS Corrects that plane departed to the southeast, not the southwest; adds detail on course plane took after takeoff.) &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. Contents of this site are all Gold Country Media. All rights reserved.
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/I/IRAN_NUCLEAR?SITE=CAACS&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	Auburn Journal : AP Stories Place a Class Ad Search past 14 days Search for older articles Letters to the Editor Looking Behind the Scenes May 11, 4:58 PM EDT Iran: U.S. Is True Nuclear Proliferator Iran Seeks Improved Ties With N. Korea Iran, U.S. Court Gulf Arab Allies Denmark: Iran Would Compensate Attack Iranian-American Being Held in Prison Iranian Fighter Jet Crash Kills 1 Ahmadinejad's Letter to President Bush Buy AP Photo Reprints VIENNA, Austria (AP) -- Iran on Friday accused the United States of being the true violator of the Nonproliferation Treaty as a global conference ended without managing to bridge conflicting priorities on how to tighten the pact meant to prevent the spread of nuclear arms. The United States and the European Union, in turn criticized Tehran for hamstringing the 106-nation meeting for a week by blocking consensus adoption of its agenda because of a phrase calling for the "need for full compliance" with the treaty. Diplomats accredited to the conference said Iran felt that wording would allow it to be targeted for its defiance of the U.N. Security Council. Differences were reflected to the last minutes of the meeting by the failure of delegates Friday to adopt the Japanese "chairman's factual summary" - Yukiya Amano's review of the debates initiated and documents submitted at the 130-nation meeting since its opening April 30. The document was to have been annexed to the meeting's concluding report. But opposition from nonaligned nations, which felt it did not reflect their priorities and from Tehran, which opposed mention of "serious concern ... expressed over Iran's nuclear program," led it to be listed only as one of dozens of documents submitted at the meeting. Since the outset of the meeting, Iran has been a major issue, with Tehran defending its nuclear record and the United States and its allies accusing it of breaching the treaty. The summary dedicated only one of its 59 paragraphs to Iran, noting that Tehran was urged to comply with U.N. Security Council resolutions calling for a halt of its uranium enrichment program. Still, that was too much for Iran. And while nonaligned delegates did not specify their opposition, several said the summary was "not factual enough." That indicated they did not share the priorities of nuclear weapons states, whose main nonproliferation focus is tightening the rules on nuclear technology in an attempt to prevent non-weapons states from acquiring the capacity to make such arms. Chief U.S. delegate Christopher A. Ford said the "summary inadequately reflects ... the well-merited criticism that Iran has faced" at the conference - an allusion to Tehran's obstruction to adoption of the agenda. A European Union statement also targeted Iran for "unjustifiable objections" to the agenda, while France was also critical. The Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty calls on nations to pledge not to pursue nuclear weapons in exchange for a commitment by five nuclear powers - the U.S., Russia, Britain, France and China - to move toward nuclear disarmament. Turning the tables on the United States, whose delegation had accused Tehran of violating the treaty by nuclear activities that point to a desire to develop an arms program, chief Iranian representative Ali Ashgar Soltanieh said Washington and its allies "are in violation" of the treaty. "The message at this conference is deploring the capabilities of weapons states and noncompliance of their obligations" to disarm," he told reporters. Iran argues it is entitled to enrich uranium under the treaty provision giving all pact members the right to develop peaceful programs. But suspicions bred by nearly two decades of clandestine nuclear activities, including questionable black-market acquisitions of equipment and blueprints that appear linked to weapons plans, have led to U.N. sanctions over its refusal to freeze enrichment. Tehran's ultimate goal is to have 50,000 enriching centrifuges at the underground Natanz facility. That would be enough to supply fuel for what Iran says is a planned network of atomic reactors to generate electricity. Or it could produce material for a full-scale nuclear weapons program. Iran denies it has any plans to make weapons, asserting it wants to enrich uranium - which can produce the fissile material for nuclear warheads - purely to generate nuclear power, and describes its other activities as also serving solely peaceful aims. In Tehran, top nuclear negotiator Ali Larijani warned that Iran would not suspend enrichment as a precondition to talks meant to reach a compromise over its nuclear program. Senior diplomats from the five permanent members of the U.N. Security Council and Germany held talks in Berlin on Thursday. German officials said the meeting was preparation for another round of talks between European Union foreign policy chief Javier Solana and Larijani. After meeting late last month, Solana and Larijani spoke of some progress and agreed to meet again within weeks in hopes of finding enough common ground to serve as the basis of renewed talks between Tehran and the six countries. Also on Friday, Vice President Dick Cheney issued a warning to Iran while aboard an aircraft carrier in the Persian Gulf, saying the United States would join allies to keep Iran from getting nuclear weapons "and dominating the region." &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. Contents of this site are all Gold Country Media. All rights reserved.
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/H/HAMAS_MICKEY_MOUSE?SITE=CAACS&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	Auburn Journal : AP Stories Place a Class Ad Search past 14 days Search for older articles Letters to the Editor Looking Behind the Scenes May 11, 5:03 PM EDT Mickey Mouse Lookalike Back on Hamas TV By SARAH EL DEEB Mickey Mouse-like Figure Preaches Islamic Fight Buy AP Photo Reprints Hamas-Fatah Fighting Worst in 2 Months Olmert Wants to Appear Before War Panel Jerusalem Plans New Settlements in East Israel and Egypt Discuss Arab Peace Plan Palestinian Fetus Killed in Crossfire Hints of al-Qaida Role in BBC Kidnapping Bank: Obstacles for Palestinian Economy Hamas 'Mickey Mouse' Wants Islam Takeover Conflict in the Middle East JERUSALEM (AP) -- A weekly children's show on a Hamas-run TV station featuring a Mickey Mouse lookalike preaching Islamic domination was broadcast as usual Friday, two days after the Palestinian information minister said it would be suspended immediately. The show, featuring a giant black-and-white rodent with a high-pitched voice, made headlines worldwide because the character has preached against Israel and the U.S. and urged Palestinian children to fight Israel. It is broadcast on Hamas-affiliated Al Aqsa TV. Hamas, which is sworn to Israel's destruction, shares power in the Palestinian government with the moderate Fatah movement of Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas. Palestinian Information Minister Mustafa Barghouti, an independent, said Wednesday that the show reflects a "mistaken approach" to the Palestinian struggle for independence and would be suspended immediately to allow for a review. But the station's manager, Hazem al-Sharawi, said on Friday the show called "Tomorrow's Pioneers" has an educational message and will not be canceled. Barghouti would only say Friday that the station had promised to correct any problems. He said he has no control over private stations, but has asked the station to review the content. If there are still violations, "we will continue to work with them," he added. Israeli officials have denounced the program as incendiary and outrageous. The program was also opposed by the Palestinian Broadcasting Corp., which is controlled by Fatah. The lead character is called "farfour" or butterfly in Arabic, but is an unmistakable copy of the Disney character. On Friday, the character said he cheated on his exams because "the Jews destroyed my house," and he lost his books under the rubble. Children called in telling him his behavior was un-Islamic. On previous episodes, the character said: "You and I are laying the foundation for a world led by Islamists. We will return the Islamic community to its former greatness, and liberate Jerusalem, God willing, liberate Iraq, God willing, and liberate all the countries of the Muslims invaded by the murderers." During Friday's show, the adult presenter and the station manager, al-Sharawi, told viewers that once Islam rules, its message of "good and peace" will also rule. "We don't incite. We present facts," said al-Sharawi. "We can't cut off our children from the reality they live everyday." He said he repeated the words love and peace six times during the show. "We have an educational and entertainment message. It carries knowledge, a sense of humor and morality. There is no shame in this, and we will not go back on it," he said. Hamas loyalists launched the Al Aqsa satellite channel last year. Bearded young men read the news and Islamic music is layered over footage of masked militants firing rockets into Israel. The channel also broadcasts talk shows, programs about the disabled and cartoons. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. Contents of this site are all Gold Country Media. All rights reserved.
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/I/ITALY_UNMARRIED_COUPLES?SITE=CAACS&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	Auburn Journal : AP Stories Place a Class Ad Search past 14 days Search for older articles Letters to the Editor Looking Behind the Scenes May 11, 3:32 PM EDT Rally to Protest Unmarried Couples Bill Rally to Protest Unmarried Couples Bill U.S. Soldier on Trial in Death in Iraq Mexico Extradites Italian in 1996 Fire Italy Probes 8 Deaths at Coronary Unit Conviction Upheld in Child Slaying Case Buy AP Photo Reprints ROME (AP) -- Tens of thousands of people plan to rally Saturday to protest a bill that would give legal rights to unmarried couples, including gays and lesbians, fueling a debate that has split Italy amid calls by Pope Benedict XVI to defend the traditional family. The legislation, which awaits parliamentary approval, has underscored long-standing tensions in this largely Roman Catholic country between a desire to hold on to church-sanctioned traditions and a push toward greater secularization. Organizers of Saturday's "Family Day" include lay Catholic groups and family associations. While the demonstration has been endorsed by Italian bishops, neither the Vatican nor the Italian bishops' conference is formally behind it. "Family belongs to believers and nonbelievers alike," said Gaetano Quagliariello, a center-right senator who helped organize the rally at Rome's St. John Lateran piazza. "Family has to do with culture and civilization." The bill at the heart of the controversy was passed by Premier Romano Prodi's center-left Cabinet in February, spurring tensions in a coalition that includes both hard-line leftists and Christian Democrats. The proposed legislation stops short of legalizing gay marriage - as was done in Spain and other European countries. Rather, it would entitle unmarried couples who live together to hospital visiting rights, inheritance rights and other legal protections. "This bill is modest and it's just a partial solution," said Franco Grillini, president of the main Italian gay rights group Arcigay. "I think that the problem is that the country is scared of diversity. We need to defend the dignity of our unions, and we want the government to recognize them." He welcomed the rally, however, saying it was a "triumph" for gay rights. "It will be a big protest against us, and that is the best advertisement we could ever have." Critics say the bill would dismantle what they consider to be the centerpiece of society: the traditional family based on marriage between a man and a woman. Supporters argue the bill does not create an alternative family model and say recognizing the basic rights of people who live outside marriage would make Italy a more civilized country. The bill's fate is anything but certain. Prodi has left lawmakers in his divided coalition free to vote according to their consciences when parliament finally takes it up. The bill has irked the Vatican, which under Benedict has been conducting a fierce campaign to protect traditional families. "Family deserves a priority attention, as it is showing signs of collapse under pressure from lobbies that are capable of negatively affecting the legislative processes," the pope said recently. "Only on the rock of marital love between a man and a woman, solid and faithful, can we build a community worthy of a human being." Benedict is visiting Brazil, where he assailed popular culture for promoting sexual immorality and destroying the sanctity of marriage in an address to hundreds of thousands of people Friday. "It is necessary to oppose those elements of the media that ridicule the sanctity of marriage and virginity before marriage," he said. The number of official marriages celebrated annually in Italy has declined steadily since the early 1970s, from 404,464 registered in 1972, to 264,026 in 2001 and just over 250,000 in 2005, according to the national statistics bureau, Istat. In their place are an ever increasing number of de-facto unions, which the agency estimated at about 592,000 in 2005, or about 4.1 percent of all heterosexual couples. The agency doesn't keep statistics on the number of gay couples. Tensions over the proposed legislation were heightened last month when graffiti threatening the head of the Italian bishops, Archbishop Angelo Bagnasco of Genoa, were scrawled on buildings in the northern city and a bullet was sent to his office. Bagnasco has spoken out strongly against the proposed legislation. Organizers say the rally should not be colored with political overtones or be seen as an anti-government protest. But it has already proven embarrassing for Prodi's coalition, with at least one minister saying he would take part. Center-left lawmakers have said they would attend a counter-demonstration in Rome's Piazza Navona. Demonstration Web site is at &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. Contents of this site are all Gold Country Media. All rights reserved.
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/C/CHENEY?SITE=CAACS&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	Auburn Journal : AP Stories Place a Class Ad Search past 14 days Search for older articles Letters to the Editor Looking Behind the Scenes May 11, 6:21 PM EDT Cheney Warns Iran to Keep Sea Lanes Open Cheney: U.S. Is Taking Fight to Enemy Buy AP Photo Reprints Latest Photos of Dick Cheney Cheney Warns Iran to Keep Sea Lanes Open Transcript: Cheney's Fox News Interview Texas Parks and Wildlife Accident Report ABOARD USS JOHN C. STENNIS (AP) -- From an aircraft carrier in the Persian Gulf, Vice President Dick Cheney warned Iran on Friday the U.S. and its allies will keep it from restricting sea traffic as well as from developing nuclear weapons. "We'll keep the sea lanes open," Cheney said from the hangar deck of the USS John C. Stennis as it steamed about 150 miles from the Iranian coast. Cheney is touring the Middle East asking Arab allies to do more to help Iraq and to curb Iran's growing power in the region. With Iraq in turmoil, both Iran and Saudi Arabia are maneuvering to see who can help fill the leadership vacuum. The vice president made clear the United States' intentions on the rivalry. "We'll stand with others to prevent Iran from gaining nuclear weapons and dominating this region," he said. On Saturday, Cheney will make a fence-mending visit to Saudi Arabia. The oil-rich kingdom, long a key American ally in the Middle East, recently has been shunning the U.S.-supported government of Iraqi Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki, suggesting he is too close to Iran. Roughly a quarter of the world's oil supplies pass through the narrow Straits of Hormuz connecting the Persian Gulf with the open waters of the Arabian Sea. Iran controls the eastern side of the straits. With two U.S. carrier groups now in the region, the vice president declared, "We're sending clear messages to friends and adversaries alike. We'll keep the sea lanes open." The carrier was in the Gulf about 20 miles off Abu Dhabi in the United Arab Emirates. Cheney is spending time there after a two-day tour of Iraq. Standing in front of five F18 Super Hornet fighters and a huge American flag in the cavernous hangar deck - one flight below the carrier's flight deck - Cheney sounded a hard line both on holding firm in Iraq and confronting Iran if necessary. Just over four years after President Bush stood on another aircraft carrier beneath a "Mission Accomplished" banner and declared an end to major combat, Cheney had a far more subdued message. "We want to complete the mission, get it done right, and return with honor," he told Stennis crew members. Officials said that between 3,500 and 4,000 of the carrier's 5,000 sailors and Marines stood in sweltering heat - hovering over 100 degrees - to hear Cheney speak. "It's not easy to serve in this part of the world. It's a place of tension and many conflicts," said Cheney. "We'll stand with our friends in opposing extremism and strategic threats. We'll disrupt attacks on our own forces," he added. U.S. officials have said that some of the sophisticated roadside bombs used against U.S. troops in Iraq have come from Iran. After returning from the carrier, Cheney had dinner with Emirates Crown Prince Sheik Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan. On Saturday, before leaving for Saudi Arabia, Cheney is expected to press Emirates President Sheik Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan to support U.S. efforts in Iraq and to shut down Iranian companies in his country that U.S. officials believe are backing Iran's nuclear development. Some 500,000 Iranians live in the Emirates. Cheney's visit comes just two days before Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad is to visit Abu Dhabi. Ahmadinejad wants the Emirates and other Gulf Arab countries to drop their military alliances with Washington and join Iran in regional efforts. The United States has about 40,000 troops on land bases in Gulf countries outside Iraq and about 20,000 sailors and Marines in the region. No Gulf state has yet backed Iran's offer of an alliance. Iran's top nuclear negotiator said Friday that a compromise over its nuclear program was impossible if the West continued to demand Tehran suspend uranium enrichment, Iran's state broadcasting company reported on its Web site. Ali Larijani's comments came a day after the U.S. and France took Iran to task during a conference on nuclear proliferation for defying a U.N. Security Council demand that it freeze enrichment. "If the West again applies the past wordings about Iran's nuclear case, this issue will not conclude," the Web site quoted Larijani as saying. "They should abandon this idea that they can change conditions of Iran's nuclear case by applying harsh word policy." When he goes to Saudi Arabia on Saturday, Cheney faces a difficult diplomatic mission - trying to ease concerns of King Abdullah about the direction of al-Maliki's Shiite-dominated government in Iraq. Abdullah has increasingly sent signals that he doubts the U.S. troop buildup to help secure Baghdad will work. The king refused to see al-Maliki as the Iraqi prime minister was making a tour of Arab countries late last month. And during a regional conference in the Egyptian resort of Sharm el-Sheik in early May, Saudi Arabia's foreign minister was one of the few Arab diplomats al-Maliki did not meet in face-to-face talks. Abdullah's snub to al-Maliki appeared aimed at showing Saudi Arabia's concern that the Iraqi government is too close to Iran and is not doing enough to reconcile with Iraq's Sunni Arab minority, a Saudi official said at the time. Iran, like Iraq, is heavily Shiite. Saudi Arabia has a predominantly Sunni Muslim population. The visit to the Stennis was a return trip for Cheney, who came to the carrier - then in the Arabian Sea - in March 2002 as he was trying to build support in the area for invading Iraq. Cheney flew to and from the carrier Friday by helicopter. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. Contents of this site are all Gold Country Media. All rights reserved.
http://apdigitalnews.com/privacy.html	AP Digital | Terms of Use
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/B/BRITAIN_BLAIR_BROWN?SITE=CAACS&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	Auburn Journal : AP Stories Place a Class Ad Search past 14 days Search for older articles Letters to the Editor Looking Behind the Scenes May 11, 3:09 PM EDT Brown Vows to Learn From Iraq Mistakes Latest News from Britain Iraqi President: U.S. Troops Should Stay Brown Vows to Learn From Iraq Mistakes No Disciplinary Action for London Police Blair Formally Endorses Brown to Be PM Britain to Hand Over Aboriginal Remains Blair Legacy: Reform, Peace, War Buy AP Photo Reprints LONDON (AP) -- Gordon Brown signaled a shift in policy in Iraq and a new vision for Britain as he launched his campaign Friday to become the country's next prime minister. Appearing before a standing ovation of hand-picked supporters only hours after Prime Minister Tony Blair formally endorsed his candidacy, Brown, who has waited more than a decade for his chance to lead the country, strode to the podium and confidently laid out a platform that promised to be both compassionate and tough. "I will listen, and I will learn. I will strive to meet people's aspirations," Brown said, pledging to win back disenchanted voters. "I want to lead a government humble enough to know its place." Brown signaled that as prime minister, he would abandon Blair's presidential style of leadership by restoring Parliament's authority in decisions such as when to go to war. Government must be accountable, he said. "I accept that mistakes have been made," Brown said, without offering specifics. "We will keep our obligations to the Iraqi people. These are obligations that are part of U.N. resolution, they are in support of a democracy. I do think that over the next few months the emphasis will shift." The question is how much Brown will shift Britain's role in the Iraq war, which has divided the country. He indicated he wants to devote more time and resources toward the creation of jobs and basic services for the Iraqi people. "There are too many people in Iraq who don't have a stake in the economic future of the country, too many people unemployed, too many people who are not seeing services developed ... and therefore too many people who don't feel loyalty to the regime," he said. Brown did not outline specifics on his Iraq policy. He said he will make his first trip to Iraq in the coming weeks to inspect the situation. Blair announced in February that his government - the top U.S. ally in the Iraq war - will reduce its troop level by 1,600 to about 5,500 by spring, but will retain a presence in southern Iraq until at least 2008. A total of 148 British soldiers have died since the 2003 invasion. Brown also promised to be strong on defense and security. "And obviously we've got to do more to win the battle of hearts and minds against al-Qaida terrorism," he said. Brown's speech at a converted Edwardian-era school in central London was the first act in his campaign to become Labour Party chief - and as a result, British leader. It also marked Brown's first effort to emerge from the shadow of the telegenic Blair - a challenge for the wonkish Brown, who must show he can connect with voters. The campaign to revamp the Treasury chief's rumpled image hit an immediate snag when the teleprompters he was using obscured his face for the live television audience. He seemed more relaxed shaking hands of the party faithful in later televised appearances. Brown took the London subway, known as the Tube, to the event, impressing at least one Londoner, 20-year-old student Rohini Simbodyal. "We got on the Tube and people were looking at Gordon Brown," Simbodyal said. "People were amazed, saying, 'It's Gordon.' But everyone was very British, they looked and then looked away. A few people came up and shook his hand and said, 'Good luck.'" "He was just like a normal guy," she said. President Bush also praised Brown's forthrightness, describing him as "easy to talk to." But it remains to be seen how close the two men might become. Brown has been more reserved in his comments about Bush, whose alliance with Blair cost the Labour Party votes. Bush and Blair have had a close relationship, speaking regularly by phone and videoconference and getting together for talks at least twice a year since 2003. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice said Brown was aware of the dangers surrounding failure in Iraq, and she didn't expect U.S.-British relations to change dramatically. "Britain and America will always be friends and I know that we will work very, very well with Gordon Brown when he becomes prime minister," Rice told the British Broadcasting Corp. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. Contents of this site are all Gold Country Media. All rights reserved.
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/G/GERMANY_SEPT_11_TRIAL?SITE=CAACS&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	Auburn Journal : AP Stories Place a Class Ad Search past 14 days Search for older articles Letters to the Editor Looking Behind the Scenes May 11, 2:35 PM EDT Sept. 11 Suspect Loses Appeal in Germany Sept. 11 Suspect Loses Appeal in Germany Protests in Germany Over Raids Shredded East German Files Reassembled Museum Created for Germans Who Hid Jews Clemency Plea by German Terrorist Fails Buy AP Photo Reprints BERLIN (AP) -- A Moroccan convicted of helping three of the Sept. 11 suicide pilots in their plot lost his final chance to appeal in Germany when the country's top criminal court announced Friday that it had refused to hear his case. Mounir el Motassadeq, 33, was convicted in November of being an accessory to the murder of the 246 passengers and crew on the four jetliners used in the 2001 terrorist attacks in the U.S. He was sentenced to 15 years in prison, the maximum penalty possible under German law. Germany's Federal Court of Justice said in a short statement Friday that it had decided on May 2 that el Motassadeq's appeal was "unfounded." "Therefore the verdict against the defendant el Motassadeq is legally binding," the court said. It did not provide further details. The decision was the final step in what has been a long trip through the German legal system that began when el Motassadeq was arrested two months after the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks. He has gone through two full trials. Even though all appeals are now exhausted, el Motassadeq's attorney Udo Jacob said he would petition the original Hamburg court to reopen the case, which it is highly unlikely to do. He also said he would take the case to the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, France, arguing that el Motassadeq did not receive a fair trial because of the lack of evidence from al-Qaida suspects in U.S. custody. "He knew nothing of the attack plans, but how can one prove that one didn't know something?" Jacob said. A spokeswoman for the Court of Human Rights, Stephanie Klein, refused to speculate on whether it would hear the case, but said it has taken up cases in the past concerning witness issues. Dominic Puopolo Jr., whose mother died aboard one of the hijacked airliners, said he was pleased with the German court's decision. "It's been a long journey and it's good to know we're getting close to the end," he said, adding he was now moving ahead with a civil suit against the Moroccan. "We're not going to walk away from this - ever," Puopolo said in a telephone interview from Miami Beach, Fla., where he lives. "My mother's dead and she's never coming back and this person's actions changed the lives of thousands of families. It's unacceptable." El Motassadeq was first convicted and sentenced to the maximum 15 years in prison in 2003, but that verdict was overturned by a federal court the following year, largely because of the lack of testimony from witnesses in U.S. custody. At a retrial in 2005, the U.S. provided limited summaries from the interrogation of, among others, Ramzi Binalshibh, a suspected liaison between the Hamburg hijackers and al-Qaida. The Hamburg court acquitted el Motassadeq of direct involvement in the attacks, but sentenced him to seven years for belonging to a terrorist group. Prosecutors appealed the decision, and in November the Federal Court of Justice ruled that evidence showed el Motassadeq was aware Hamburg-based hijackers Mohamed Atta, Marwan al-Shehhi and Ziad Jarrah planned to hijack and crash planes, even though he might not have known the specifics of the plot. It convicted him of 246 counts of accessory to murder in addition to the membership in a terrorist organization charge. Judge Klaus Tolksdorf ruled then that el Motassadeq had helped "watch the attackers' backs and conceal them" by helping them keep up the appearance of being regular university students - paying tuition and rent fees, and transferring money. Tolksdorf said it was irrelevant to el Motassadeq's guilt whether he knew of the planned timing, dimension or targets of the attacks. In January, Germany's constitutional court refused to hear a separate appeal in which el Motassadeq's attorneys claimed that evidence from other terrorism suspects was not properly considered at his trial. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. Contents of this site are all Gold Country Media. All rights reserved.
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/F/FRENCH_KIDNAPPED?SITE=OHALL2&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	May 12, 9:05 AM EDT Kidnapped Aid Worker Returns to France Buy AP Photo Reprints PARIS (AP) -- Looking thin and frail as he stepped from a French military plane, an aid worker released by the Taliban after five weeks in captivity in Afghanistan pleaded Saturday for his captors to free three Afghans seized with him. Eric Damfreville, who had one eye covered by a bandage, was wearing a traditional Afghan outfit and wrapped in a gold emergency blanket as he arrived in his native France. "I feel a great joy to be here this morning," said Damfreville, who works for the humanitarian aid group Terre d'Enfance. "But my joy will be even greater once Azrat, Rasul, Hashim, three Afghans, are also freed." The head of Terre d'Enfance, Antoine Vuillaume, said Damfreville had spent most of his captivity bound and gagged and described his health as "quite deteriorated." He said Damfreville was suffering from dehydration and a stomach ailment, as well as a problem with his left eye. Damfreville said he was treated well by his captors and that his weakened health was a result of the length of his detention and the sparse conditions of the area where he was held. "There was no bad treatment from our captors, who did everything so that the conditions of detention were good," he said. After speaking briefly to reporters, he was put on a stretcher and taken by ambulance to a hospital in the Paris region. "His release is a relief for all of us," said French Foreign Minister Philippe Douste-Blazy said. "He is now going to rest because he needs it." The aid worker was released Friday after 38 days in captivity. He had been abducted along with a female colleague and the three Afghans in the country's southwestern Nimroz province on April 3. The Taliban released the woman, Celine Cordelier, on April 28. There was no word on the fate of the three Afghans. After taking the group captive, the Taliban demanded the withdrawal of all remaining French troops from Afghanistan. France pulled 200 French special forces out of Afghanistan late last year and still has about 1,000 troops stationed in the country. The French aid workers were kidnapped two weeks after Afghan authorities released five Taliban prisoners in exchange for an Italian newspaper reporter who was abducted along with his two Afghan colleagues in southern Helmand province on March 5. The two Afghans were killed. The deal was heavily criticized by the United States and some European nations. Afghan lawmakers and foreigners working in the country said it gave the Taliban incentive to stage more kidnappings, and Afghans were angry that the Italian was released but that the two Afghans were not. The Afghan government has said the prisoner swap was a one-time deal for the Italian journalist, and has ruled out future exchanges. The Taliban credited Damfreville's release to comments by France's President-elect Nicholas Sarkozy that French troops would eventually leave Afghanistan, but French authorities refused to provide any details about the circumstances of his release. Asked whether the former hostage was carrying a message from the Taliban for French officials, Douste-Blazy insisted on the need for strict confidentiality. Le Monde daily, however, said the French government "must have paid" the captors a "hefty sum" for the release of Damfreville and Cordelier. In a televised interview before his election last week, Sarkozy suggested he might withdraw French troops from Afghanistan. "The long-term presence of French troops in that part of the world does not look definitive to me," Sarkozy told France-2 television. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. Copyright Alliance Publishing Co, LLC. 1995-2006. All Rights Reserved. Content may not be republished without the expressed written consent of the publisher.
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/F/FRENCH_KIDNAPPED?SITE=OHALL2&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	May 12, 9:05 AM EDT Kidnapped Aid Worker Returns to France Buy AP Photo Reprints PARIS (AP) -- Looking thin and frail as he stepped from a French military plane, an aid worker released by the Taliban after five weeks in captivity in Afghanistan pleaded Saturday for his captors to free three Afghans seized with him. Eric Damfreville, who had one eye covered by a bandage, was wearing a traditional Afghan outfit and wrapped in a gold emergency blanket as he arrived in his native France. "I feel a great joy to be here this morning," said Damfreville, who works for the humanitarian aid group Terre d'Enfance. "But my joy will be even greater once Azrat, Rasul, Hashim, three Afghans, are also freed." The head of Terre d'Enfance, Antoine Vuillaume, said Damfreville had spent most of his captivity bound and gagged and described his health as "quite deteriorated." He said Damfreville was suffering from dehydration and a stomach ailment, as well as a problem with his left eye. Damfreville said he was treated well by his captors and that his weakened health was a result of the length of his detention and the sparse conditions of the area where he was held. "There was no bad treatment from our captors, who did everything so that the conditions of detention were good," he said. After speaking briefly to reporters, he was put on a stretcher and taken by ambulance to a hospital in the Paris region. "His release is a relief for all of us," said French Foreign Minister Philippe Douste-Blazy said. "He is now going to rest because he needs it." The aid worker was released Friday after 38 days in captivity. He had been abducted along with a female colleague and the three Afghans in the country's southwestern Nimroz province on April 3. The Taliban released the woman, Celine Cordelier, on April 28. There was no word on the fate of the three Afghans. After taking the group captive, the Taliban demanded the withdrawal of all remaining French troops from Afghanistan. France pulled 200 French special forces out of Afghanistan late last year and still has about 1,000 troops stationed in the country. The French aid workers were kidnapped two weeks after Afghan authorities released five Taliban prisoners in exchange for an Italian newspaper reporter who was abducted along with his two Afghan colleagues in southern Helmand province on March 5. The two Afghans were killed. The deal was heavily criticized by the United States and some European nations. Afghan lawmakers and foreigners working in the country said it gave the Taliban incentive to stage more kidnappings, and Afghans were angry that the Italian was released but that the two Afghans were not. The Afghan government has said the prisoner swap was a one-time deal for the Italian journalist, and has ruled out future exchanges. The Taliban credited Damfreville's release to comments by France's President-elect Nicholas Sarkozy that French troops would eventually leave Afghanistan, but French authorities refused to provide any details about the circumstances of his release. Asked whether the former hostage was carrying a message from the Taliban for French officials, Douste-Blazy insisted on the need for strict confidentiality. Le Monde daily, however, said the French government "must have paid" the captors a "hefty sum" for the release of Damfreville and Cordelier. In a televised interview before his election last week, Sarkozy suggested he might withdraw French troops from Afghanistan. "The long-term presence of French troops in that part of the world does not look definitive to me," Sarkozy told France-2 television. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. Copyright Alliance Publishing Co, LLC. 1995-2006. All Rights Reserved. Content may not be republished without the expressed written consent of the publisher.
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/P/POPE_BRAZIL?SITE=OHALL2&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	May 12, 3:15 AM EDT Pope Heads to Brazilian Shrine City Pope Heads to Brazilian Shrine City Pope News Conference Causes Stir Pope to Canonize First Brazilian Saint Pope Visits Brazil, Church Loses Ground Official Says Amazon Dams on Fast Track Pope Heads to Brazilian Shrine City Pope News Conference Causes Stir Wartime Pope Edges Closer to Sainthood Pope Says He Suppports Excommunication Pope to Canonize First Brazilian Saint Pope Benedict's trip to Latin America Buy AP Photo Reprints Justice Delayed: Latin America's Dirty Wars Leaning Left: Political Changes in Latin America Pope Heads to Brazilian Shrine City Surrender Ends Standoff in Costa Rica Haiti Immigrants Angry With Boat Sinking Man Storms Russia's Costa Rica Embassy Cuba Accuses U.S. of Violating Treaties APARECIDA, Brazil (AP) -- Pope Benedict XVI turned his attention to strategies for reversing the Catholic Church's declining influence in Latin America, traveling to Brazil's most important shrine to open a regional bishops' conference. Benedict lamented "difficult times for the church" in Brazil amid "aggressive proselytizing" by born-again Protestant congregations before flying by helicopter from Sao Paulo, the nation's largest city, to Aparecida, a hallowed Catholic religious site. On Saturday, he plans to visit a rural drug treatment center founded by a Franciscan Friar that claims an 80 percent success rate. Addicts receive spiritual guidance while working as beekeepers, milking cows and tending apple orchards. He then will open Sunday's conference of Latin American and Caribbean bishops - aimed at finding ways to reverse the erosion of the church in the region and Brazil. Brazil's census shows the percentage of citizens characterizing themselves as Catholics plunged to 74 percent in 2000 from 89 percent in 1980, while those calling themselves evangelical Protestants rose to 15 percent from 7 percent. The backdrop to the conference is Aparecida, 100 miles east of Sao Paulo, which is home to the mammoth Basilica of Aparecida as well as the 3-foot-tall statue of a black Virgin Mary called "Our Lady Who Appeared," the patron saint of Brazil. The statue was pulled from a river in the 18th century by poor fishermen who were not catching any fish, and then caught loads in their nets. Miracles were subsequently attributed to the statue, and so many pilgrims flocked to Aparecida that the church built the basilica and inaugurated it as a shrine in 1955. On Friday, the pope canonized Brazil's first native-born saint in a Mass before about a million people. He held up 18th century Friar Antonio de Sant'Anna Galvao as a model of rectitude and humility "in an age so full of hedonism." Benedict was cheered by flag-waving crowds in the world's largest Catholic nation as he canonized the new saint, continuing a push for saints in the developing world that began under John Paul II, who sought role models as part of the church's worldwide reach. John Paul canonized more saints than all of his predecessors combined. Benedict also called on Catholics to "oppose those elements of the media that ridicule the sanctity of marriage and virginity before marriage," picking a tough crowd to confront about hedonism and permissiveness. More than 70 percent of Brazil's 190 million citizens may be Catholics, but sex before marriage is common. Scantily clad actresses are the norm on hugely popular TV soap operas, and women on the beaches wear bikinis that leave little to the imagination. The pope may be popular among Brazilian Catholics but most probably will not heed his call when it comes to sex, said David Gibson, author of "The Rule of Benedict: Pope Benedict XVI and His Battle with the Modern World." "This is enormously frustrating to Benedict or any pope; they want to have more impact," Gibson said. But "how do you go against a culture like that? It's tough." While polls show Brazilians oppose expanding access to abortion, they overwhelmingly support using condoms to prevent pregnancy and sexually transmitted diseases - in firm opposition to church doctrine. The government, in fact, hands out millions of condoms for free every year, especially ahead of the debauchery that is an integral part of Brazil's pre-lent carnival. "Nothing could be more countercultural than his message in Brazil, the land of the thong," said Gibson, a former Vatican Radio reporter. The drug treatment center that Benedict will visit near Aparecida, "Fazenda de Esperanca," or "Farm of Hope," was founded by Franciscan friar Hanz Stapel in 1983. Addicts are given a mixture of spiritual guidance and discipline with hard farm work to help them kick the habit, develop a work ethic and learn to help others with troubled lives. There are now 31 similar farm-treatment centers in Brazil and 10 more in countries such as Russia, Mexico and Mozambique. Associated Press writers Alan Clendenning and Victor Simpson in Sao Paulo contributed to this report. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. Copyright Alliance Publishing Co, LLC. 1995-2006. All Rights Reserved. Content may not be republished without the expressed written consent of the publisher.
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/P/POPE_BRAZIL?SITE=OHALL2&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	May 12, 3:15 AM EDT Pope Heads to Brazilian Shrine City Pope Heads to Brazilian Shrine City Pope News Conference Causes Stir Pope to Canonize First Brazilian Saint Pope Visits Brazil, Church Loses Ground Official Says Amazon Dams on Fast Track Pope Heads to Brazilian Shrine City Pope News Conference Causes Stir Wartime Pope Edges Closer to Sainthood Pope Says He Suppports Excommunication Pope to Canonize First Brazilian Saint Pope Benedict's trip to Latin America Buy AP Photo Reprints Justice Delayed: Latin America's Dirty Wars Leaning Left: Political Changes in Latin America Pope Heads to Brazilian Shrine City Surrender Ends Standoff in Costa Rica Haiti Immigrants Angry With Boat Sinking Man Storms Russia's Costa Rica Embassy Cuba Accuses U.S. of Violating Treaties APARECIDA, Brazil (AP) -- Pope Benedict XVI turned his attention to strategies for reversing the Catholic Church's declining influence in Latin America, traveling to Brazil's most important shrine to open a regional bishops' conference. Benedict lamented "difficult times for the church" in Brazil amid "aggressive proselytizing" by born-again Protestant congregations before flying by helicopter from Sao Paulo, the nation's largest city, to Aparecida, a hallowed Catholic religious site. On Saturday, he plans to visit a rural drug treatment center founded by a Franciscan Friar that claims an 80 percent success rate. Addicts receive spiritual guidance while working as beekeepers, milking cows and tending apple orchards. He then will open Sunday's conference of Latin American and Caribbean bishops - aimed at finding ways to reverse the erosion of the church in the region and Brazil. Brazil's census shows the percentage of citizens characterizing themselves as Catholics plunged to 74 percent in 2000 from 89 percent in 1980, while those calling themselves evangelical Protestants rose to 15 percent from 7 percent. The backdrop to the conference is Aparecida, 100 miles east of Sao Paulo, which is home to the mammoth Basilica of Aparecida as well as the 3-foot-tall statue of a black Virgin Mary called "Our Lady Who Appeared," the patron saint of Brazil. The statue was pulled from a river in the 18th century by poor fishermen who were not catching any fish, and then caught loads in their nets. Miracles were subsequently attributed to the statue, and so many pilgrims flocked to Aparecida that the church built the basilica and inaugurated it as a shrine in 1955. On Friday, the pope canonized Brazil's first native-born saint in a Mass before about a million people. He held up 18th century Friar Antonio de Sant'Anna Galvao as a model of rectitude and humility "in an age so full of hedonism." Benedict was cheered by flag-waving crowds in the world's largest Catholic nation as he canonized the new saint, continuing a push for saints in the developing world that began under John Paul II, who sought role models as part of the church's worldwide reach. John Paul canonized more saints than all of his predecessors combined. Benedict also called on Catholics to "oppose those elements of the media that ridicule the sanctity of marriage and virginity before marriage," picking a tough crowd to confront about hedonism and permissiveness. More than 70 percent of Brazil's 190 million citizens may be Catholics, but sex before marriage is common. Scantily clad actresses are the norm on hugely popular TV soap operas, and women on the beaches wear bikinis that leave little to the imagination. The pope may be popular among Brazilian Catholics but most probably will not heed his call when it comes to sex, said David Gibson, author of "The Rule of Benedict: Pope Benedict XVI and His Battle with the Modern World." "This is enormously frustrating to Benedict or any pope; they want to have more impact," Gibson said. But "how do you go against a culture like that? It's tough." While polls show Brazilians oppose expanding access to abortion, they overwhelmingly support using condoms to prevent pregnancy and sexually transmitted diseases - in firm opposition to church doctrine. The government, in fact, hands out millions of condoms for free every year, especially ahead of the debauchery that is an integral part of Brazil's pre-lent carnival. "Nothing could be more countercultural than his message in Brazil, the land of the thong," said Gibson, a former Vatican Radio reporter. The drug treatment center that Benedict will visit near Aparecida, "Fazenda de Esperanca," or "Farm of Hope," was founded by Franciscan friar Hanz Stapel in 1983. Addicts are given a mixture of spiritual guidance and discipline with hard farm work to help them kick the habit, develop a work ethic and learn to help others with troubled lives. There are now 31 similar farm-treatment centers in Brazil and 10 more in countries such as Russia, Mexico and Mozambique. Associated Press writers Alan Clendenning and Victor Simpson in Sao Paulo contributed to this report. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. Copyright Alliance Publishing Co, LLC. 1995-2006. All Rights Reserved. Content may not be republished without the expressed written consent of the publisher.
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/T/TAIWAN_PREMIER?SITE=OHALL2&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	May 12, 5:44 AM EDT Taiwan's Premier Resigns After Defeat Taiwan's Premier Resigns After Defeat U.S. Commander Meets China's Top General Taiwan Makes Plea for WHO Membership China Names Special Envoy for Darfur China to Start Mobile Food Testing Buy AP Photo Reprints Taiwan's Festival of Prosperity TAIPEI, Taiwan (AP) -- Taiwanese Premier Su Tseng-chang resigned Saturday, days after he was defeated in the ruling party's presidential primary. President Chen Shui-bian said he had accepted Su's resignation and would name a new premier in a few days. "Premier Su offered to resign ... to help foster internal unity of the Democratic Progressive Party," Chen told a news conference. "I cannot but approve it reluctantly." The premier heads the Cabinet and is responsible for winning legislative support of key government policies. Chen said Su's replacement would form a new Cabinet. "This will be (Chen's) last year in office and he may want to make changes to cope with the new situation," Su said earlier Saturday. "I'm willing to cooperate, and have reported this to him." Last weekend, former Premier Frank Hsieh won the DPP's internal primary for its presidential candidate in the 2008 race. Su conceded defeat and promised to rally support for his rival. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. Copyright Alliance Publishing Co, LLC. 1995-2006. All Rights Reserved. Content may not be republished without the expressed written consent of the publisher.
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/T/TAIWAN_PREMIER?SITE=OHALL2&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	May 12, 5:44 AM EDT Taiwan's Premier Resigns After Defeat Taiwan's Premier Resigns After Defeat U.S. Commander Meets China's Top General Taiwan Makes Plea for WHO Membership China Names Special Envoy for Darfur China to Start Mobile Food Testing Buy AP Photo Reprints Taiwan's Festival of Prosperity TAIPEI, Taiwan (AP) -- Taiwanese Premier Su Tseng-chang resigned Saturday, days after he was defeated in the ruling party's presidential primary. President Chen Shui-bian said he had accepted Su's resignation and would name a new premier in a few days. "Premier Su offered to resign ... to help foster internal unity of the Democratic Progressive Party," Chen told a news conference. "I cannot but approve it reluctantly." The premier heads the Cabinet and is responsible for winning legislative support of key government policies. Chen said Su's replacement would form a new Cabinet. "This will be (Chen's) last year in office and he may want to make changes to cope with the new situation," Su said earlier Saturday. "I'm willing to cooperate, and have reported this to him." Last weekend, former Premier Frank Hsieh won the DPP's internal primary for its presidential candidate in the 2008 race. Su conceded defeat and promised to rally support for his rival. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. Copyright Alliance Publishing Co, LLC. 1995-2006. All Rights Reserved. Content may not be republished without the expressed written consent of the publisher.
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/S/SOMALIA?SITE=OHALL2&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	May 12, 8:33 AM EDT U.N. Official Asks Somalia to Allow Aid By ELIZABETH A. KENNEDY Buy AP Photo Reprints MOGADHISHU, Somalia (AP) -- The United Nations' top humanitarian official made a landmark visit to this battle-scarred capital Saturday, but the trip was disrupted by an explosion that killed four people near the U.N. compound in south Mogadishu. John Holmes, the U.N. undersecretary-general for humanitarian affairs, is the highest ranking U.N. official to visit Mogadishu in more than a decade. His tour of the city and his meeting with President Abdullahi Yusuf was delayed briefly by the blast near the compound. Holmes said he had come to push the government to allow humanitarian aid to reach its people while it tried to build on the fragile peace in a country ravaged by continuous fighting. "It is their responsibility to look after civilians, to protect civilians and at the very least not to obstruct aid," Holmes said. The trip comes about two weeks after Somalia's government declared victory over a ferocious Islamic insurgency with the crucial help of troops and helicopter gunships from neighboring Ethiopia and U.S. special forces. Aid groups say the fighting killed 1,670 people between March 12 and April 26 and sent up to 400,000 of the city's 2 million residents fleeing, many into squalid camps or makeshift shelters in the bush. When Holmes arrived Saturday morning at the freshly painted blue and white terminal building at Mogadishu airport, armed African Union troops lined the road. As his 10-vehicle convoy of armored land cruisers and pickup trucks drove to the U.N. compound over crumbling roads, women and children waved and yelled from the doorways of buildings battered by fighting and pockmarked with bullet holes. He said it was not likely that they could bring in more African Union peacekeeping troops until the government improved security. After the explosion Saturday morning, Mohamed Dheere, a former warlord who is now mayor of Mogadishu, arrived at the U.N. compound and said he had come to assess the security situation. "Security is a big challenge," said Dheere. "There is no economy, no finances, police don't have a salary, there is no equipment for police, we are starting from scratch. We are very much sorry about what happened (the explosion), but there is no groundwork for peace." The capital has been mostly calm recently and many of those who fled the violence are starting to return. The government, however, has declared victory before only to have the insurgents reappear weeks later. The insurgents are linked to the Council of Islamic Courts, which had ruled Mogadishu and much of southern Somalia for six quiet months last year. The U.S. has accused the group of links to al-Qaida, which it has consistently denied. Holmes, who was appointed in January to replace Jan Egeland, is the highest-ranking U.N. official to visit Mogadishu since the undersecretary-general went in 1993. Associated Press Writer Mohammed Olad Hassan in Mogadishu contributed to this report. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. Copyright Alliance Publishing Co, LLC. 1995-2006. All Rights Reserved. Content may not be republished without the expressed written consent of the publisher.
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/S/SOMALIA?SITE=OHALL2&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	May 12, 8:33 AM EDT U.N. Official Asks Somalia to Allow Aid By ELIZABETH A. KENNEDY Buy AP Photo Reprints MOGADHISHU, Somalia (AP) -- The United Nations' top humanitarian official made a landmark visit to this battle-scarred capital Saturday, but the trip was disrupted by an explosion that killed four people near the U.N. compound in south Mogadishu. John Holmes, the U.N. undersecretary-general for humanitarian affairs, is the highest ranking U.N. official to visit Mogadishu in more than a decade. His tour of the city and his meeting with President Abdullahi Yusuf was delayed briefly by the blast near the compound. Holmes said he had come to push the government to allow humanitarian aid to reach its people while it tried to build on the fragile peace in a country ravaged by continuous fighting. "It is their responsibility to look after civilians, to protect civilians and at the very least not to obstruct aid," Holmes said. The trip comes about two weeks after Somalia's government declared victory over a ferocious Islamic insurgency with the crucial help of troops and helicopter gunships from neighboring Ethiopia and U.S. special forces. Aid groups say the fighting killed 1,670 people between March 12 and April 26 and sent up to 400,000 of the city's 2 million residents fleeing, many into squalid camps or makeshift shelters in the bush. When Holmes arrived Saturday morning at the freshly painted blue and white terminal building at Mogadishu airport, armed African Union troops lined the road. As his 10-vehicle convoy of armored land cruisers and pickup trucks drove to the U.N. compound over crumbling roads, women and children waved and yelled from the doorways of buildings battered by fighting and pockmarked with bullet holes. He said it was not likely that they could bring in more African Union peacekeeping troops until the government improved security. After the explosion Saturday morning, Mohamed Dheere, a former warlord who is now mayor of Mogadishu, arrived at the U.N. compound and said he had come to assess the security situation. "Security is a big challenge," said Dheere. "There is no economy, no finances, police don't have a salary, there is no equipment for police, we are starting from scratch. We are very much sorry about what happened (the explosion), but there is no groundwork for peace." The capital has been mostly calm recently and many of those who fled the violence are starting to return. The government, however, has declared victory before only to have the insurgents reappear weeks later. The insurgents are linked to the Council of Islamic Courts, which had ruled Mogadishu and much of southern Somalia for six quiet months last year. The U.S. has accused the group of links to al-Qaida, which it has consistently denied. Holmes, who was appointed in January to replace Jan Egeland, is the highest-ranking U.N. official to visit Mogadishu since the undersecretary-general went in 1993. Associated Press Writer Mohammed Olad Hassan in Mogadishu contributed to this report. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. Copyright Alliance Publishing Co, LLC. 1995-2006. All Rights Reserved. Content may not be republished without the expressed written consent of the publisher.
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/I/ITALY_US_TERRORISM?SITE=OHALL2&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	May 12, 6:55 AM EDT U.S., Europe Seek Passenger Data Deal U.S., Europe Seek Passenger Data Deal Rally to Protest Unmarried Couples Bill U.S. Soldier on Trial in Death in Iraq Mexico Extradites Italian in 1996 Fire Italy Probes 8 Deaths at Coronary Unit Criminal complaint against Eljvir Duka in Fort Dix plot case Hearing Transcript: Waleed Mohammed bin Attash Hearing Transcript: Khalid Sheikh Mohammed Hearing Transcript Abu Faraj al-Libi Hearing Transcript: Ramzi Binalshibh Declassified Report: Iraq 'Cause Celebre' for Extremists U.S., Europe Seek Passenger Data Deal Terror Suspect Testifies, It Goes Badly U.S. Pushing Europe for Flight Data Deal Bush's Privacy Board Not Doing Its Job? British Police Make 4 Terror Arrests Buy AP Photo Reprints VENICE, Italy (AP) -- The U.S. Homeland Security secretary met with top European security officials Saturday to work out the details of a new agreement to share airline passenger data for terrorism investigations. Secretary Michael Chertoff also was expected to discuss changes to the U.S. visa-waiver program during the meeting with security officials from Britain, France, Germany, Italy, Spain and Poland. A deal on the airline data must be reached by July to avoid problems for both airlines and U.S.-bound passengers. European governments are worried about protecting their strict privacy laws, a legacy of the continent's history with totalitarian and authoritarian regimes. The two sides disagree on how long U.S. authorities can use data, when it should be destroyed and which agencies should have access to the information. The United States also wants the authority to pull data directly from airline computers, but European countries insist airlines must transmit the information. Chertoff travels to Brussels, Belgium, on Monday where he will address the EU Parliament. Citizens from 15 of the 27 EU nations can enter the United States without applying for a travel visa. U.S. officials say Greece and most of the newer EU members still fail to meet criteria for joining the visa-waiver program. The EU allows Americans to travel to all its member countries without visas and has long insisted on full reciprocity. Poland is especially adamant, arguing that it should be admitted in recognition of its contributions to U.S. operations in Iraq and Afghanistan. The United States rejects 22 percent of Polish visa applicants - a rate that far exceeds the 3 percent benchmark required for entry into the waiver program. Legislation pending in the Congress would allow the program to admit new countries, while requiring all participating countries to impose closer scrutiny of their passports to ensure they are not lost, stolen or easily counterfeited. President Bush has said he favors adding countries to the visa-waiver list. All but four countries now on the list are European. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. Copyright Alliance Publishing Co, LLC. 1995-2006. All Rights Reserved. Content may not be republished without the expressed written consent of the publisher.
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/I/ITALY_US_TERRORISM?SITE=OHALL2&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	May 12, 6:55 AM EDT U.S., Europe Seek Passenger Data Deal U.S., Europe Seek Passenger Data Deal Rally to Protest Unmarried Couples Bill U.S. Soldier on Trial in Death in Iraq Mexico Extradites Italian in 1996 Fire Italy Probes 8 Deaths at Coronary Unit Criminal complaint against Eljvir Duka in Fort Dix plot case Hearing Transcript: Waleed Mohammed bin Attash Hearing Transcript: Khalid Sheikh Mohammed Hearing Transcript Abu Faraj al-Libi Hearing Transcript: Ramzi Binalshibh Declassified Report: Iraq 'Cause Celebre' for Extremists U.S., Europe Seek Passenger Data Deal Terror Suspect Testifies, It Goes Badly U.S. Pushing Europe for Flight Data Deal Bush's Privacy Board Not Doing Its Job? British Police Make 4 Terror Arrests Buy AP Photo Reprints VENICE, Italy (AP) -- The U.S. Homeland Security secretary met with top European security officials Saturday to work out the details of a new agreement to share airline passenger data for terrorism investigations. Secretary Michael Chertoff also was expected to discuss changes to the U.S. visa-waiver program during the meeting with security officials from Britain, France, Germany, Italy, Spain and Poland. A deal on the airline data must be reached by July to avoid problems for both airlines and U.S.-bound passengers. European governments are worried about protecting their strict privacy laws, a legacy of the continent's history with totalitarian and authoritarian regimes. The two sides disagree on how long U.S. authorities can use data, when it should be destroyed and which agencies should have access to the information. The United States also wants the authority to pull data directly from airline computers, but European countries insist airlines must transmit the information. Chertoff travels to Brussels, Belgium, on Monday where he will address the EU Parliament. Citizens from 15 of the 27 EU nations can enter the United States without applying for a travel visa. U.S. officials say Greece and most of the newer EU members still fail to meet criteria for joining the visa-waiver program. The EU allows Americans to travel to all its member countries without visas and has long insisted on full reciprocity. Poland is especially adamant, arguing that it should be admitted in recognition of its contributions to U.S. operations in Iraq and Afghanistan. The United States rejects 22 percent of Polish visa applicants - a rate that far exceeds the 3 percent benchmark required for entry into the waiver program. Legislation pending in the Congress would allow the program to admit new countries, while requiring all participating countries to impose closer scrutiny of their passports to ensure they are not lost, stolen or easily counterfeited. President Bush has said he favors adding countries to the visa-waiver list. All but four countries now on the list are European. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. Copyright Alliance Publishing Co, LLC. 1995-2006. All Rights Reserved. Content may not be republished without the expressed written consent of the publisher.
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/P/PAKISTAN_JUDICIAL_CRISIS?SITE=OHALL2&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	May 12, 8:38 AM EDT 18 Killed in Pakistan Political Violence Buy AP Photo Reprints Associated Press Pop-up Link Copyright Alliance Publishing Co, LLC. 1995-2006. All Rights Reserved. Content may not be republished without the expressed written consent of the publisher.
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/P/PAKISTAN_JUDICIAL_CRISIS?SITE=OHALL2&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	May 12, 8:38 AM EDT 18 Killed in Pakistan Political Violence Buy AP Photo Reprints Associated Press Pop-up Link Copyright Alliance Publishing Co, LLC. 1995-2006. All Rights Reserved. Content may not be republished without the expressed written consent of the publisher.
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/I/IRAQ?SITE=OHALL2&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	May 12, 9:10 AM EDT Iraq Attack Leaves 5 GIs Dead; 3 Missing The Toll: Coalition Casualties Since March 2003 U.S. Allows Mahdi Army a Security Role Iraqis Struggle in Police Training Four Years: AP Journalists Look Back Iraq and Vietnam: Contrasting Protests Land Mines From Iran-Iraq War Sold on Black Market Iraqi Outpost Tests War Strategy Iraq's Toll Felt Across U.S. Soldier Diagnosed Before Attack end soldier diagnosis --> end interactive icon section --> Latest photos from Iraq Iraq Attack Leaves 5 GIs Dead; 3 Missing Al-Hakim Calls for 'Security Agreement' Iraqi Officials Discourage U.S. Pullout War Tensions Follow Bush to Commencement U.S. Military Deaths in Iraq at 3,386 Executive Summary: DOD Inspector General on Pre-Iraq War Intelligence Activities(2/9/2007) Unclassified National Intelligence Estimate Summary on Iraq (2/2/2007) Inspector General Report on Iraq Reconstruction (1/31/2007) Buy AP Photo Reprints BAGHDAD (AP) -- Seven U.S. soldiers and an Iraqi army interpreter came under attack Saturday morning during a patrol of a Sunni insurgent stronghold south of Baghdad, leaving five dead and three missing, the military said. Troops were searching for the three missing, using drone planes, jets and checkpoints throughout the area, according to the statement. Soldiers were also asking local leaders for information. After the pre-dawn attack near Mahmoudiya, a Sunni stronghold about 20 miles south of Baghdad, nearby units heard explosions and a drone plane later observed two burning vehicles, the statement said. Troops who arrived later found five of the soldiers dead. The other three members of the patrol were gone, according to the statement, from Maj. Gen. William Caldwell, the chief U.S. military spokesman in Iraq. The military refused to specify whether the Iraqi interpreter was among those killed or among the missing, citing security. "Make no mistake: We will never stop looking for our soldiers until their status is definitively determined, and we continue to pray for their safe return," Caldwell said. The attack occurred nearly a year after two American soldiers went missing following a June 16 attack in the same area, prompting a massive search. Their bodies were found tied together with a bomb between one victim's legs several days later. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. Copyright Alliance Publishing Co, LLC. 1995-2006. All Rights Reserved. Content may not be republished without the expressed written consent of the publisher.
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/I/IRAQ?SITE=OHALL2&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	May 12, 9:10 AM EDT Iraq Attack Leaves 5 GIs Dead; 3 Missing The Toll: Coalition Casualties Since March 2003 U.S. Allows Mahdi Army a Security Role Iraqis Struggle in Police Training Four Years: AP Journalists Look Back Iraq and Vietnam: Contrasting Protests Land Mines From Iran-Iraq War Sold on Black Market Iraqi Outpost Tests War Strategy Iraq's Toll Felt Across U.S. Soldier Diagnosed Before Attack end soldier diagnosis --> end interactive icon section --> Latest photos from Iraq Iraq Attack Leaves 5 GIs Dead; 3 Missing Al-Hakim Calls for 'Security Agreement' Iraqi Officials Discourage U.S. Pullout War Tensions Follow Bush to Commencement U.S. Military Deaths in Iraq at 3,386 Executive Summary: DOD Inspector General on Pre-Iraq War Intelligence Activities(2/9/2007) Unclassified National Intelligence Estimate Summary on Iraq (2/2/2007) Inspector General Report on Iraq Reconstruction (1/31/2007) Buy AP Photo Reprints BAGHDAD (AP) -- Seven U.S. soldiers and an Iraqi army interpreter came under attack Saturday morning during a patrol of a Sunni insurgent stronghold south of Baghdad, leaving five dead and three missing, the military said. Troops were searching for the three missing, using drone planes, jets and checkpoints throughout the area, according to the statement. Soldiers were also asking local leaders for information. After the pre-dawn attack near Mahmoudiya, a Sunni stronghold about 20 miles south of Baghdad, nearby units heard explosions and a drone plane later observed two burning vehicles, the statement said. Troops who arrived later found five of the soldiers dead. The other three members of the patrol were gone, according to the statement, from Maj. Gen. William Caldwell, the chief U.S. military spokesman in Iraq. The military refused to specify whether the Iraqi interpreter was among those killed or among the missing, citing security. "Make no mistake: We will never stop looking for our soldiers until their status is definitively determined, and we continue to pray for their safe return," Caldwell said. The attack occurred nearly a year after two American soldiers went missing following a June 16 attack in the same area, prompting a massive search. Their bodies were found tied together with a bomb between one victim's legs several days later. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. Copyright Alliance Publishing Co, LLC. 1995-2006. All Rights Reserved. Content may not be republished without the expressed written consent of the publisher.
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/C/CHINA_US_MILITARY?SITE=OHALL2&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	May 12, 5:31 AM EDT U.S. Commander Meets China's Top General AP Photo/Ng Han Guan U.S. Commander Meets China's Top General China Names Special Envoy for Darfur China to Start Mobile Food Testing Japan Rules Against War Claims China: Pig Disease Could Spread Buy AP Photo Reprints BEIJING (AP) -- The new commander of U.S. forces in the Pacific said he aims to build friendships in China, but added Saturday that the Communist power's recent anti-satellite missile test appears to contradict its claim of a peaceful military rise. Adm. Timothy Keating said he met with Gen. Guo Boxiong, China's top general, and Assistant Foreign Minister He Yafei in discussions aimed at "developing and reinforcing" friendships. Keating said he and Guo exchanged views on Beijing's anti-satellite test in January, when a missile was used to destroy one of its own old weather satellites in low-Earth polar orbit. It was the first time China had successfully tested an anti-satellite system. "An anti-satellite test is not necessarily a clear indication of a desire for peaceful utilization of space," Keating told reporters at a briefing. "It is a confusing signal shall we say for a country who desires, in China's words, a peaceful rise." He said Guo characterized the test as "scientific in nature" and hailed it a success. Keating said the U.S. was watching as China developed its capabilities across the spectrum of military operations, which have significantly improved over the past 20 years. "They're getting better," he said. "That is of obvious interest to us and to everyone in the world." China's People's Liberation Army, the world's largest, has been spending heavily on adding submarines, jet fighters and other high-tech weapons to its arsenal, causing unease among its neighbors. Its reported 2006 budget is $35.3 billion, but analysts believe the true figure is several times higher. One of the apparent goals is building up China's ability to back up threats to attack Taiwan, the self-ruled neighboring island that the Communist Beijing government claims as its own territory. The two sides split during civil war in 1949 and China has threatened war if Taiwan takes steps toward formal independence. Keating said he reiterated Washington's adherence to the Taiwan Relations Act of 1979 to Chinese officials. The act requires the United States to maintain sufficient force in the Pacific as a deterrent but does not require the defense of Taiwan by U.S. force if it comes under attack from China. The power to declare war rests with Congress. Keating, who took up his position in March, said there were no immediate plans for joint exercises this year but that he hopes to continue to expand cooperation in that field. Visits between the Chinese and American militaries dropped off after the collision of a U.S. spy plane with a Chinese fighter jet off China's coast in 2001. But relations have improved recently. Last September, two Chinese navy ships stopped in Pearl Harbor in Hawaii - the first visits to a U.S. state in six years. After Pearl Harbor, the ships went to San Diego for the first part of a search-and-rescue exercise that ended in November off the Chinese island province of Hainan. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. Copyright Alliance Publishing Co, LLC. 1995-2006. All Rights Reserved. Content may not be republished without the expressed written consent of the publisher.
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/C/CHINA_US_MILITARY?SITE=OHALL2&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	May 12, 5:31 AM EDT U.S. Commander Meets China's Top General AP Photo/Ng Han Guan U.S. Commander Meets China's Top General China Names Special Envoy for Darfur China to Start Mobile Food Testing Japan Rules Against War Claims China: Pig Disease Could Spread Buy AP Photo Reprints BEIJING (AP) -- The new commander of U.S. forces in the Pacific said he aims to build friendships in China, but added Saturday that the Communist power's recent anti-satellite missile test appears to contradict its claim of a peaceful military rise. Adm. Timothy Keating said he met with Gen. Guo Boxiong, China's top general, and Assistant Foreign Minister He Yafei in discussions aimed at "developing and reinforcing" friendships. Keating said he and Guo exchanged views on Beijing's anti-satellite test in January, when a missile was used to destroy one of its own old weather satellites in low-Earth polar orbit. It was the first time China had successfully tested an anti-satellite system. "An anti-satellite test is not necessarily a clear indication of a desire for peaceful utilization of space," Keating told reporters at a briefing. "It is a confusing signal shall we say for a country who desires, in China's words, a peaceful rise." He said Guo characterized the test as "scientific in nature" and hailed it a success. Keating said the U.S. was watching as China developed its capabilities across the spectrum of military operations, which have significantly improved over the past 20 years. "They're getting better," he said. "That is of obvious interest to us and to everyone in the world." China's People's Liberation Army, the world's largest, has been spending heavily on adding submarines, jet fighters and other high-tech weapons to its arsenal, causing unease among its neighbors. Its reported 2006 budget is $35.3 billion, but analysts believe the true figure is several times higher. One of the apparent goals is building up China's ability to back up threats to attack Taiwan, the self-ruled neighboring island that the Communist Beijing government claims as its own territory. The two sides split during civil war in 1949 and China has threatened war if Taiwan takes steps toward formal independence. Keating said he reiterated Washington's adherence to the Taiwan Relations Act of 1979 to Chinese officials. The act requires the United States to maintain sufficient force in the Pacific as a deterrent but does not require the defense of Taiwan by U.S. force if it comes under attack from China. The power to declare war rests with Congress. Keating, who took up his position in March, said there were no immediate plans for joint exercises this year but that he hopes to continue to expand cooperation in that field. Visits between the Chinese and American militaries dropped off after the collision of a U.S. spy plane with a Chinese fighter jet off China's coast in 2001. But relations have improved recently. Last September, two Chinese navy ships stopped in Pearl Harbor in Hawaii - the first visits to a U.S. state in six years. After Pearl Harbor, the ships went to San Diego for the first part of a search-and-rescue exercise that ended in November off the Chinese island province of Hainan. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. Copyright Alliance Publishing Co, LLC. 1995-2006. All Rights Reserved. Content may not be republished without the expressed written consent of the publisher.
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/U/UN_ZIMBABWE?SITE=OHALL2&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	May 12, 3:36 AM EDT Zimbabwe to Head Key U.N. Commission Zimbabwe to Head Key U.N. Commission Zimbabwe Lawyer Decries Intimidation Police Assault Attorneys in Zimbabwe Correction: Corn Prices in Zimbabwe Zimbabwe's Mugabe Warns Catholic Bishops Buy AP Photo Reprints UNITED NATIONS (AP) -- Zimbabwe, a country suffering from acute food shortages and rampant inflation, won approval to lead the important U.N. Commission on Sustainable Development despite protests from the U.S., European nations and human rights organizations. Africa nominated Francis Nhema, Zimbabwe's minister of environment and tourism, for the post, and the 53-member commission approved that recommendation Friday in a vote of 26-21 with three abstentions, said Luiz Alberto Figueiredo Machado, the commission's vice chair. The post rotates every year among regions of the world and it was Africa's turn to sit in the chair. "We're very disappointed in the election of Zimbabwe as chair," said the U.S. representative to the commission Dan Reifsnyder, deputy assistant secretary for environment and science at the State Department. "We really think it calls into question the credibility of this organization to have a representative from a country that has decimated its agriculture, that used to be the breadbasket of Africa and can't now feed itself," Reifsnyder said. Zimbabwe is suffering its worst economic crisis since independence in 1980, with acute shortages of food, hard currency, gasoline, medicines and most other basic goods. Official inflation is running at about 2,200 percent annually, the highest in the world. President Robert Mugabe, an 83-year-old who has ruled Zimbabwe since it gained independence from Britain in 1980, has been widely criticized for mismanaging the economy. In 2000, Mugabe's government began violently seizing thousands of white-owned commercial farms as part of a program to redistribute land to poor blacks. The chaotic way the seizures were carried out disrupted the agriculture-based economy in Zimbabwe, a former regional breadbasket. Drought, government corruption and repressive policies have compounded the problems. The newly elected chairman dismissed questions Friday night about his country's international standing and the appropriateness of Zimbabwe holding such a position in a global body. "I think it's not time to point fingers," Nhema said. "There is never a perfect method, it's always a method which is appropriate to each country. So it's important not only to look at Zimbabwe but to look at each other and see what we can learn." Several European nations have also called Zimbabwe's candidacy inappropriate. On Friday, the Pan African Parliament, a body of the African Union, voted to send a mission to Zimbabwe to investigate alleged human rights abuses "relating to the arrests and detention, assault and murder of political activists and members of the media." "Zimbabwe is hardly a model of good governance or sustainable development or even responsible leadership," said Benjamin Chang, deputy spokesman for the U.S. Mission to the United Nations, said before the vote. "Our concern is that it's potential chairmanship would undermine the commission's credibility." Jennifer Windsor, executive director of the human rights group Freedom House, said before the vote that it was "preposterous" for Zimbabwe to lead any U.N. body. Freedom House is independent non-governmental organization that has monitored political rights and civil liberties in Zimbabwe since 1980. She said Mugabe's government "clearly has nothing but scorn for the U.N.'s founding principles of human rights, security and international law." The Commission on Sustainable Development was established by the General Assembly in December 1992 to ensure effective follow-up of the Earth Summit held in Rio de Janeiro in June that year, and implementation of key environmental and development agreements. The commission meets annually in New York, and its current session that opened Wednesday is focusing on energy for sustainable development, industrial development, air pollution and climate change. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. Copyright Alliance Publishing Co, LLC. 1995-2006. All Rights Reserved. Content may not be republished without the expressed written consent of the publisher.
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/U/UN_ZIMBABWE?SITE=OHALL2&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	May 12, 3:36 AM EDT Zimbabwe to Head Key U.N. Commission Zimbabwe to Head Key U.N. Commission Zimbabwe Lawyer Decries Intimidation Police Assault Attorneys in Zimbabwe Correction: Corn Prices in Zimbabwe Zimbabwe's Mugabe Warns Catholic Bishops Buy AP Photo Reprints UNITED NATIONS (AP) -- Zimbabwe, a country suffering from acute food shortages and rampant inflation, won approval to lead the important U.N. Commission on Sustainable Development despite protests from the U.S., European nations and human rights organizations. Africa nominated Francis Nhema, Zimbabwe's minister of environment and tourism, for the post, and the 53-member commission approved that recommendation Friday in a vote of 26-21 with three abstentions, said Luiz Alberto Figueiredo Machado, the commission's vice chair. The post rotates every year among regions of the world and it was Africa's turn to sit in the chair. "We're very disappointed in the election of Zimbabwe as chair," said the U.S. representative to the commission Dan Reifsnyder, deputy assistant secretary for environment and science at the State Department. "We really think it calls into question the credibility of this organization to have a representative from a country that has decimated its agriculture, that used to be the breadbasket of Africa and can't now feed itself," Reifsnyder said. Zimbabwe is suffering its worst economic crisis since independence in 1980, with acute shortages of food, hard currency, gasoline, medicines and most other basic goods. Official inflation is running at about 2,200 percent annually, the highest in the world. President Robert Mugabe, an 83-year-old who has ruled Zimbabwe since it gained independence from Britain in 1980, has been widely criticized for mismanaging the economy. In 2000, Mugabe's government began violently seizing thousands of white-owned commercial farms as part of a program to redistribute land to poor blacks. The chaotic way the seizures were carried out disrupted the agriculture-based economy in Zimbabwe, a former regional breadbasket. Drought, government corruption and repressive policies have compounded the problems. The newly elected chairman dismissed questions Friday night about his country's international standing and the appropriateness of Zimbabwe holding such a position in a global body. "I think it's not time to point fingers," Nhema said. "There is never a perfect method, it's always a method which is appropriate to each country. So it's important not only to look at Zimbabwe but to look at each other and see what we can learn." Several European nations have also called Zimbabwe's candidacy inappropriate. On Friday, the Pan African Parliament, a body of the African Union, voted to send a mission to Zimbabwe to investigate alleged human rights abuses "relating to the arrests and detention, assault and murder of political activists and members of the media." "Zimbabwe is hardly a model of good governance or sustainable development or even responsible leadership," said Benjamin Chang, deputy spokesman for the U.S. Mission to the United Nations, said before the vote. "Our concern is that it's potential chairmanship would undermine the commission's credibility." Jennifer Windsor, executive director of the human rights group Freedom House, said before the vote that it was "preposterous" for Zimbabwe to lead any U.N. body. Freedom House is independent non-governmental organization that has monitored political rights and civil liberties in Zimbabwe since 1980. She said Mugabe's government "clearly has nothing but scorn for the U.N.'s founding principles of human rights, security and international law." The Commission on Sustainable Development was established by the General Assembly in December 1992 to ensure effective follow-up of the Earth Summit held in Rio de Janeiro in June that year, and implementation of key environmental and development agreements. The commission meets annually in New York, and its current session that opened Wednesday is focusing on energy for sustainable development, industrial development, air pollution and climate change. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. Copyright Alliance Publishing Co, LLC. 1995-2006. All Rights Reserved. Content may not be republished without the expressed written consent of the publisher.
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/I/IRAQ_SHIITE_PARTY?SITE=OHALL2&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	May 12, 5:31 AM EDT Al-Hakim Calls for 'Security Agreement' The Toll: Coalition Casualties Since March 2003 U.S. Allows Mahdi Army a Security Role Iraqis Struggle in Police Training Four Years: AP Journalists Look Back Iraq and Vietnam: Contrasting Protests Land Mines From Iran-Iraq War Sold on Black Market Iraqi Outpost Tests War Strategy Iraq's Toll Felt Across U.S. Soldier Diagnosed Before Attack end soldier diagnosis --> end interactive icon section --> Latest photos from Iraq Iraq Attack Leaves 5 GIs Dead; 3 Missing Al-Hakim Calls for 'Security Agreement' Iraqi Officials Discourage U.S. Pullout War Tensions Follow Bush to Commencement U.S. Military Deaths in Iraq at 3,386 Executive Summary: DOD Inspector General on Pre-Iraq War Intelligence Activities(2/9/2007) Unclassified National Intelligence Estimate Summary on Iraq (2/2/2007) Inspector General Report on Iraq Reconstruction (1/31/2007) Buy AP Photo Reprints Shiite Power: A Look at Populations in the Mideast BAGHDAD (AP) -- The leader of Iraq's largest Shiite political party on Saturday called for a "security agreement" to be negotiated between Iraq and U.S.-led forces to outline the authorities of each side in a further indication of growing frustration over America's role in Iraq. Abdul-Aziz al-Hakim did not give more details of the proposed pact. In the past he has repeatedly complained that the U.S. military's lead in the fight against Sunni insurgents hampered the work of Iraq's Shiite-dominated security forces, which he contended were better qualified to fight the insurgents given their knowledge of the terrain and language. "We are working toward reaching a security agreement to define the authority of each side," al-Hakim told a news conference after a two-day meeting of his party, the Supreme Council for the Islamic Revolution in Iraq. Al-Hakim also announced the party's name will be changed to the "Supreme Islamic Council of Iraq" - dropping the word "revolution" to reflect the new political realities in the country. Al-Hakim's comments coincided with an ongoing campaign by lawmakers loyal to anti-American Shiite cleric Muqtada al-Sadr to get parliament to adopt legislation demanding a timetable for the withdrawal of the U.S.-led troops in Iraq and a freeze on the number of foreign forces already in the country. Officials said this week the proposed legislation has been signed by 144 members of the 275-member house, but it is not likely to retain the support of all of them if it is put to a vote. However, that more than half the house signed on the draft is a reflection of the growing impatience of many Iraqis with the continued presence of foreign troops in their country and the failure to end a four-year-old Sunni insurgency and an enduring campaign of terror by al-Qaida. Addressing the same news conference, senior al-Hakim aide Hummam Hamoudi sought to play down the significance of a timetable for the withdrawal of foreign forces, saying it was more important to reach a timetable for the training and equipping of Iraqi troops. Al-Hakim's party - a senior partner in the coalition government of Shiite Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki that has been in office since May last year - was founded in Iran in 1982 with the assistance of Tehran's ruling clergy to fight Saddam Hussein's regime, toppled by the 2003 U.S.-led invasion. In theory, the party's Badr Brigade militia has been disbanded and turned into a political organization, but its former militiamen are known to have infiltrated the security forces. Al-Hakim said his party remained committed to the creation of a semiautonomous region in Iraq's mainly Shiite south, but stressed that such a move hinged on popular support. A federal Iraq is a key plank of the party's ideology, but politicians from the once-dominant Sunni Arab minority insist that federalism would eventually lead to the breakup of the country. Federalism was enshrined in a new constitution adopted in 2005. "We are working for the creation of a region in the center and south ... under the mechanisms provided by in the constitution and with the approval of the people," he said. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. Copyright Alliance Publishing Co, LLC. 1995-2006. All Rights Reserved. Content may not be republished without the expressed written consent of the publisher.
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/I/IRAQ_SHIITE_PARTY?SITE=OHALL2&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	May 12, 5:31 AM EDT Al-Hakim Calls for 'Security Agreement' The Toll: Coalition Casualties Since March 2003 U.S. Allows Mahdi Army a Security Role Iraqis Struggle in Police Training Four Years: AP Journalists Look Back Iraq and Vietnam: Contrasting Protests Land Mines From Iran-Iraq War Sold on Black Market Iraqi Outpost Tests War Strategy Iraq's Toll Felt Across U.S. Soldier Diagnosed Before Attack end soldier diagnosis --> end interactive icon section --> Latest photos from Iraq Iraq Attack Leaves 5 GIs Dead; 3 Missing Al-Hakim Calls for 'Security Agreement' Iraqi Officials Discourage U.S. Pullout War Tensions Follow Bush to Commencement U.S. Military Deaths in Iraq at 3,386 Executive Summary: DOD Inspector General on Pre-Iraq War Intelligence Activities(2/9/2007) Unclassified National Intelligence Estimate Summary on Iraq (2/2/2007) Inspector General Report on Iraq Reconstruction (1/31/2007) Buy AP Photo Reprints Shiite Power: A Look at Populations in the Mideast BAGHDAD (AP) -- The leader of Iraq's largest Shiite political party on Saturday called for a "security agreement" to be negotiated between Iraq and U.S.-led forces to outline the authorities of each side in a further indication of growing frustration over America's role in Iraq. Abdul-Aziz al-Hakim did not give more details of the proposed pact. In the past he has repeatedly complained that the U.S. military's lead in the fight against Sunni insurgents hampered the work of Iraq's Shiite-dominated security forces, which he contended were better qualified to fight the insurgents given their knowledge of the terrain and language. "We are working toward reaching a security agreement to define the authority of each side," al-Hakim told a news conference after a two-day meeting of his party, the Supreme Council for the Islamic Revolution in Iraq. Al-Hakim also announced the party's name will be changed to the "Supreme Islamic Council of Iraq" - dropping the word "revolution" to reflect the new political realities in the country. Al-Hakim's comments coincided with an ongoing campaign by lawmakers loyal to anti-American Shiite cleric Muqtada al-Sadr to get parliament to adopt legislation demanding a timetable for the withdrawal of the U.S.-led troops in Iraq and a freeze on the number of foreign forces already in the country. Officials said this week the proposed legislation has been signed by 144 members of the 275-member house, but it is not likely to retain the support of all of them if it is put to a vote. However, that more than half the house signed on the draft is a reflection of the growing impatience of many Iraqis with the continued presence of foreign troops in their country and the failure to end a four-year-old Sunni insurgency and an enduring campaign of terror by al-Qaida. Addressing the same news conference, senior al-Hakim aide Hummam Hamoudi sought to play down the significance of a timetable for the withdrawal of foreign forces, saying it was more important to reach a timetable for the training and equipping of Iraqi troops. Al-Hakim's party - a senior partner in the coalition government of Shiite Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki that has been in office since May last year - was founded in Iran in 1982 with the assistance of Tehran's ruling clergy to fight Saddam Hussein's regime, toppled by the 2003 U.S.-led invasion. In theory, the party's Badr Brigade militia has been disbanded and turned into a political organization, but its former militiamen are known to have infiltrated the security forces. Al-Hakim said his party remained committed to the creation of a semiautonomous region in Iraq's mainly Shiite south, but stressed that such a move hinged on popular support. A federal Iraq is a key plank of the party's ideology, but politicians from the once-dominant Sunni Arab minority insist that federalism would eventually lead to the breakup of the country. Federalism was enshrined in a new constitution adopted in 2005. "We are working for the creation of a region in the center and south ... under the mechanisms provided by in the constitution and with the approval of the people," he said. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. Copyright Alliance Publishing Co, LLC. 1995-2006. All Rights Reserved. Content may not be republished without the expressed written consent of the publisher.
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/K/KOREAS_NUCLEAR?SITE=KPUA&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	KPUA.net - Hilo, Hawaii News, Sports, and Information May 15, 3:05 PM EDT North Korea: Funds Dispute Nearly Solved Buy AP Photo Reprints North Korea's Missile Arsenal The Last Stalinist State Iran Seeks Improved Ties With N. Korea Chances Slim for Return of USS Pueblo N. Korea Wants U.S. Bank to Handle Funds SEOUL, South Korea (AP) -- North Korea said Tuesday that steps were being taken to resolve a financial dispute that has blocked international efforts to halt its production of nuclear weapons in an indication of possible progress after weeks of delay. North Korea has refused to start implementing a February agreement to shut down its nuclear reactor - missing a deadline that passed a month ago - until it receives funds from a bank in the Chinese territory of Macau that had been frozen after the bank was blacklisted by the United States in 2005. North Korea's Foreign Ministry said it wanted to be able to "freely transfer funds." "For this, works are under way so that funds at Macau's Banco Delta Asia can be transferred to our bank accounts at a third country," the ministry said in a statement carried by the official Korean Central News Agency. The transfer has been held up because other banks have been reluctant to touch the $25 million in accounts that were freed with the blessing of the United States. Washington has said the money was tied to alleged money laundering and counterfeiting by North Korea. Authorities say North Korea could withdraw the sum in cash, but it apparently wants to retrieve it through a bank wire transfer to prove the funds are now clean. North Korea made the release of the money its main condition for halting its nuclear program, boycotting international arms negotiations for more than a year during which it conducted a weapons test in October. On Tuesday, North Korea rebutted allegations it said were made in U.S. media that it had been using the funds dispute as a delaying tactic, and it repeated its commitment to the disarmament deal. "Once the fund transfer is realized we are willing to immediately take steps to shut down our nuclear facility as agreed," the ministry said, adding it would invite U.N. nuclear inspectors and discuss the matter with the U.S. "Once the Feb. 13 agreement gets implemented, our commitment will be clearly shown through our actions," the ministry said. Earlier Tuesday, the U.S. ambassador to South Korea called on the North to act on its pledge. "It's time for North Korea to live up to its commitments," Alexander Vershbow told a security forum in Seoul. "The North has a lot to gain by ending its nuclear programs and getting rid of nuclear weapons." Rewards include "economic assistance, normalized relations with the United States and a permanent peace regime for the Korean peninsula. ... In short, a fundamental transformation of the (North's) relations with the rest of the world and an end to its pariah status," he said. The February deal calls for closing the reactor and disabling all of North Korea's nuclear facilities. Vershbow said Washington believes the action can be done in a "few months" and it hopes to achieve a complete denuclearization of North Korea before President Bush leaves office in January 2009. In Vienna, Gregory L. Schulte, the chief U.S. envoy to the International Atomic Energy Agency, said inspectors "are standing by to return to North Korea on short notice." The IAEA itself had no comment. Associated Press reporters Jae-soon Chang and Bo-mi Lim contributed to this report. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint.
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/K/KOREAS_NUCLEAR?SITE=KPUA&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	KPUA.net - Hilo, Hawaii News, Sports, and Information May 15, 3:05 PM EDT North Korea: Funds Dispute Nearly Solved Buy AP Photo Reprints North Korea's Missile Arsenal The Last Stalinist State Iran Seeks Improved Ties With N. Korea Chances Slim for Return of USS Pueblo N. Korea Wants U.S. Bank to Handle Funds SEOUL, South Korea (AP) -- North Korea said Tuesday that steps were being taken to resolve a financial dispute that has blocked international efforts to halt its production of nuclear weapons in an indication of possible progress after weeks of delay. North Korea has refused to start implementing a February agreement to shut down its nuclear reactor - missing a deadline that passed a month ago - until it receives funds from a bank in the Chinese territory of Macau that had been frozen after the bank was blacklisted by the United States in 2005. North Korea's Foreign Ministry said it wanted to be able to "freely transfer funds." "For this, works are under way so that funds at Macau's Banco Delta Asia can be transferred to our bank accounts at a third country," the ministry said in a statement carried by the official Korean Central News Agency. The transfer has been held up because other banks have been reluctant to touch the $25 million in accounts that were freed with the blessing of the United States. Washington has said the money was tied to alleged money laundering and counterfeiting by North Korea. Authorities say North Korea could withdraw the sum in cash, but it apparently wants to retrieve it through a bank wire transfer to prove the funds are now clean. North Korea made the release of the money its main condition for halting its nuclear program, boycotting international arms negotiations for more than a year during which it conducted a weapons test in October. On Tuesday, North Korea rebutted allegations it said were made in U.S. media that it had been using the funds dispute as a delaying tactic, and it repeated its commitment to the disarmament deal. "Once the fund transfer is realized we are willing to immediately take steps to shut down our nuclear facility as agreed," the ministry said, adding it would invite U.N. nuclear inspectors and discuss the matter with the U.S. "Once the Feb. 13 agreement gets implemented, our commitment will be clearly shown through our actions," the ministry said. Earlier Tuesday, the U.S. ambassador to South Korea called on the North to act on its pledge. "It's time for North Korea to live up to its commitments," Alexander Vershbow told a security forum in Seoul. "The North has a lot to gain by ending its nuclear programs and getting rid of nuclear weapons." Rewards include "economic assistance, normalized relations with the United States and a permanent peace regime for the Korean peninsula. ... In short, a fundamental transformation of the (North's) relations with the rest of the world and an end to its pariah status," he said. The February deal calls for closing the reactor and disabling all of North Korea's nuclear facilities. Vershbow said Washington believes the action can be done in a "few months" and it hopes to achieve a complete denuclearization of North Korea before President Bush leaves office in January 2009. In Vienna, Gregory L. Schulte, the chief U.S. envoy to the International Atomic Energy Agency, said inspectors "are standing by to return to North Korea on short notice." The IAEA itself had no comment. Associated Press reporters Jae-soon Chang and Bo-mi Lim contributed to this report. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint.
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/R/RICE_PUTIN?SITE=KPUA&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	KPUA.net - Hilo, Hawaii News, Sports, and Information May 15, 4:44 PM EDT U.S., Russians, Agree to Ease Rhetoric Buy AP Photo Reprints MOSCOW (AP) -- Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice won agreement Tuesday from Vladimir Putin to tone down Russian tough talk in an effort to improve strained ties, though neither side gave any ground on major disagreements over missile defense and Kosovo. Rice said no country could veto U.S. plans to set up a missile defense system in Europe that Russia vehemently opposes. She also said the United States still supports a U.N. plan for independence for the Serbian province of Kosovo, an idea Russia opposes. She and Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov were collegial at a news conference where they were peppered with questions about contentious issues. They stressed areas of cooperation, including the war on terror and efforts to halt the spread of weapons of mass destruction. "There will always be situations where our positions do not coincide," Lavrov said. He attributed talk of a "catastrophic" breakdown in relations to media speculation about a new Cold War emerging between the former foes. He said Russia still believes that the planned European missile defense would be a threat to it. Rice was in Moscow for two days seeking to repair damage to U.S.-Russian relations ahead of a planned meeting next month between Putin and President Bush at a summit of G-8 leaders in Germany. However, she gave no hint the United States was willing to back down on its plans for European missile defense. "The United States needs to be able to move forward to use technology to defend itself and we're going to do that," she said. "I don't think that anyone expects the United States to permit somehow a veto on American security interests." On Kosovo, Russia opposes independence for the province from Serbia and fears it could set a dangerous precedent for some restive Russian and former Russian republics. Rice and Lavrov said no progress had been made in bridging differences. "I can't see a ready solution," Rice said at the news conference with Lavrov. He said the same: "It was agreed to search for a solution on Kosovo that would be acceptable for all, but there is no such solution immediately in sight." Before their meeting, Rice criticized the Russians for recent negative comments by Putin and other officials that she said had obscured positive developments and cooperation. "We did talk about the need to keep the temperature down," Rice said after meeting Putin at his home outside Moscow. She described some remarks as "overheated rhetoric," in particular his recent reference in a speech to Nazi Germany, widely perceived as criticism of the United States. "We are going to have our differences, there is no doubt about that. There are going to be old scars to overcome, there is no doubt about that. ... But the relationship needs to be free of exaggerated rhetoric," she said. Asked whether she thought her message was received by the Russians, Rice replied: "I sure hope so, because I don't think you ever hear President Bush use certain kinds of rhetoric about Russia because he respects the partnership." She said she accepted Russia's explanation that Putin had been referring to "extremists." After the Putin-Rice meeting, Lavrov said: "The president supported the American side's understanding that it's necessary to tone down the rhetoric in public statements and concentrate on concrete business." But at the news conference, Lavrov appeared to step back, saying that "it would be more appropriate to consider the statements ... as an invitation to a more fair and frank dialogue." There has been growing tension about the U.S. missile defense plan and concern in Washington about Moscow's treatment of its neighbors and steps Putin has taken to consolidate power in the Kremlin - seen as democratic backsliding - as Russia prepares for presidential and parliamentary elections next year. A planned event at which Rice and Putin were to be photographed together and make brief remarks was canceled by the Kremlin and a senior Russian diplomat on Monday warned the U.S. not to try to go it alone in world affairs. In April, simmering Russian anger over U.S. plans to place missile defense components in Poland and the Czech Republic, both former Warsaw Pact members, boiled over despite Washington's pledges to cooperate with Moscow on the system. Last month, hours before the United States and its NATO allies met in Norway to discuss the matter, Putin threatened to suspend Russia's participation in a key treaty limiting military deployments in Europe. Russia views U.S. activity in its former sphere of influence with growing suspicion. Just last week, Putin denounced "disrespect for human life, claims to global exclusiveness and dictate, just as it was in the time of the Third Reich." Associated Press Writer Vladimir Isachenkov contributed to this report from Novo-Ogaryovo, Russia. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint.
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/R/RICE_PUTIN?SITE=KPUA&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	KPUA.net - Hilo, Hawaii News, Sports, and Information May 15, 4:44 PM EDT U.S., Russians, Agree to Ease Rhetoric Buy AP Photo Reprints MOSCOW (AP) -- Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice won agreement Tuesday from Vladimir Putin to tone down Russian tough talk in an effort to improve strained ties, though neither side gave any ground on major disagreements over missile defense and Kosovo. Rice said no country could veto U.S. plans to set up a missile defense system in Europe that Russia vehemently opposes. She also said the United States still supports a U.N. plan for independence for the Serbian province of Kosovo, an idea Russia opposes. She and Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov were collegial at a news conference where they were peppered with questions about contentious issues. They stressed areas of cooperation, including the war on terror and efforts to halt the spread of weapons of mass destruction. "There will always be situations where our positions do not coincide," Lavrov said. He attributed talk of a "catastrophic" breakdown in relations to media speculation about a new Cold War emerging between the former foes. He said Russia still believes that the planned European missile defense would be a threat to it. Rice was in Moscow for two days seeking to repair damage to U.S.-Russian relations ahead of a planned meeting next month between Putin and President Bush at a summit of G-8 leaders in Germany. However, she gave no hint the United States was willing to back down on its plans for European missile defense. "The United States needs to be able to move forward to use technology to defend itself and we're going to do that," she said. "I don't think that anyone expects the United States to permit somehow a veto on American security interests." On Kosovo, Russia opposes independence for the province from Serbia and fears it could set a dangerous precedent for some restive Russian and former Russian republics. Rice and Lavrov said no progress had been made in bridging differences. "I can't see a ready solution," Rice said at the news conference with Lavrov. He said the same: "It was agreed to search for a solution on Kosovo that would be acceptable for all, but there is no such solution immediately in sight." Before their meeting, Rice criticized the Russians for recent negative comments by Putin and other officials that she said had obscured positive developments and cooperation. "We did talk about the need to keep the temperature down," Rice said after meeting Putin at his home outside Moscow. She described some remarks as "overheated rhetoric," in particular his recent reference in a speech to Nazi Germany, widely perceived as criticism of the United States. "We are going to have our differences, there is no doubt about that. There are going to be old scars to overcome, there is no doubt about that. ... But the relationship needs to be free of exaggerated rhetoric," she said. Asked whether she thought her message was received by the Russians, Rice replied: "I sure hope so, because I don't think you ever hear President Bush use certain kinds of rhetoric about Russia because he respects the partnership." She said she accepted Russia's explanation that Putin had been referring to "extremists." After the Putin-Rice meeting, Lavrov said: "The president supported the American side's understanding that it's necessary to tone down the rhetoric in public statements and concentrate on concrete business." But at the news conference, Lavrov appeared to step back, saying that "it would be more appropriate to consider the statements ... as an invitation to a more fair and frank dialogue." There has been growing tension about the U.S. missile defense plan and concern in Washington about Moscow's treatment of its neighbors and steps Putin has taken to consolidate power in the Kremlin - seen as democratic backsliding - as Russia prepares for presidential and parliamentary elections next year. A planned event at which Rice and Putin were to be photographed together and make brief remarks was canceled by the Kremlin and a senior Russian diplomat on Monday warned the U.S. not to try to go it alone in world affairs. In April, simmering Russian anger over U.S. plans to place missile defense components in Poland and the Czech Republic, both former Warsaw Pact members, boiled over despite Washington's pledges to cooperate with Moscow on the system. Last month, hours before the United States and its NATO allies met in Norway to discuss the matter, Putin threatened to suspend Russia's participation in a key treaty limiting military deployments in Europe. Russia views U.S. activity in its former sphere of influence with growing suspicion. Just last week, Putin denounced "disrespect for human life, claims to global exclusiveness and dictate, just as it was in the time of the Third Reich." Associated Press Writer Vladimir Isachenkov contributed to this report from Novo-Ogaryovo, Russia. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint.
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/N/NAZI_ARCHIVE?SITE=KPUA&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	KPUA.net - Hilo, Hawaii News, Sports, and Information May 15, 4:14 PM EDT Sealed Nazi Archives to Be Released Sealed Nazi Archives to Be Released Diplomats Agree to Transfer Nazi Archive Holocaust Survivor Refuses to Meet Son
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/N/NAZI_ARCHIVE?SITE=KPUA&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	KPUA.net - Hilo, Hawaii News, Sports, and Information May 15, 4:14 PM EDT Sealed Nazi Archives to Be Released Sealed Nazi Archives to Be Released Diplomats Agree to Transfer Nazi Archive Holocaust Survivor Refuses to Meet Son
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/J/JAPAN_TOJO?SITE=KPUA&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	KPUA.net - Hilo, Hawaii News, Sports, and Information May 15, 3:17 PM EDT Tojo's Granddaughter in Parliament Bid Tojo's Granddaughter in Parliament Bid Report: Japan Teen Beheads Mother Japan Votes to Extend Iraq Mission Boy Found in Japan Unwanted Drop Box Japan Royals Ponder Walks, Invisibility Buy AP Photo Reprints TOKYO (AP) -- The granddaughter of wartime Prime Minister Hideki Tojo, who was executed for crimes against humanity, said Tuesday she will run for a parliamentary seat in July to "restore the honor" of those who gave their lives for Japan. Yuko Tojo, 67, told The Associated Press she will run as an independent from the Tokyo constituency for the legislature's upper house. "I want to change Japan. I want Japanese children to be able to take pride in their country again," Tojo said. In a separate statement, Tojo called for a national debate on punitive postwar treaties imposed on Japan "to show appreciation and respect toward for those who gave their lives for Japan, and to restore their honor." Gen. Tojo, prime minister from 1941 to 1944, unleashed a savage war of aggression on Japan's neighbors and has been widely remembered both at home and abroad as Asia's answer to Adolf Hitler. Tojo, who is enshrined with Japan's 2.5 million war dead at Tokyo's Yasukuni Shrine, also ordered the surprise attack on Pearl Harbor that plunged the United States into World War II. Yasukuni is vilified by critics as symbolizing the country's militaristic past because it honors Class-A criminals such as Tojo. He was sentenced to death at the Tokyo war trials and executed in 1948. Yuko Tojo has defended her grandfather's legacy, contending in a 1992 memoir that he had no choice but to take Japan to war after the country's survival was threatened by a U.S. oil embargo. The book became the basis for a movie in 1998, "Pride," which broke old taboos by portraying Gen. Tojo as the victim of vindictive Allied judges during the Tokyo tribunals. "Pride" became one of the top-grossing domestic films that year, demonstrating the growing popularity of revisionist views in Japan. Other nationalistic films have followed. Tojo's candidacy comes as the Japanese government takes steps toward a vote on revising its U.S.-drafted pacifist Constitution, which prohibits the use of war in settling international disputes. She has also rejected suggestions that Yasukuni stop honoring executed war criminals to allay views in China and South Korea that Japan has not fully atoned for its wartime atrocities there. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint.
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/J/JAPAN_TOJO?SITE=KPUA&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	KPUA.net - Hilo, Hawaii News, Sports, and Information May 15, 3:17 PM EDT Tojo's Granddaughter in Parliament Bid Tojo's Granddaughter in Parliament Bid Report: Japan Teen Beheads Mother Japan Votes to Extend Iraq Mission Boy Found in Japan Unwanted Drop Box Japan Royals Ponder Walks, Invisibility Buy AP Photo Reprints TOKYO (AP) -- The granddaughter of wartime Prime Minister Hideki Tojo, who was executed for crimes against humanity, said Tuesday she will run for a parliamentary seat in July to "restore the honor" of those who gave their lives for Japan. Yuko Tojo, 67, told The Associated Press she will run as an independent from the Tokyo constituency for the legislature's upper house. "I want to change Japan. I want Japanese children to be able to take pride in their country again," Tojo said. In a separate statement, Tojo called for a national debate on punitive postwar treaties imposed on Japan "to show appreciation and respect toward for those who gave their lives for Japan, and to restore their honor." Gen. Tojo, prime minister from 1941 to 1944, unleashed a savage war of aggression on Japan's neighbors and has been widely remembered both at home and abroad as Asia's answer to Adolf Hitler. Tojo, who is enshrined with Japan's 2.5 million war dead at Tokyo's Yasukuni Shrine, also ordered the surprise attack on Pearl Harbor that plunged the United States into World War II. Yasukuni is vilified by critics as symbolizing the country's militaristic past because it honors Class-A criminals such as Tojo. He was sentenced to death at the Tokyo war trials and executed in 1948. Yuko Tojo has defended her grandfather's legacy, contending in a 1992 memoir that he had no choice but to take Japan to war after the country's survival was threatened by a U.S. oil embargo. The book became the basis for a movie in 1998, "Pride," which broke old taboos by portraying Gen. Tojo as the victim of vindictive Allied judges during the Tokyo tribunals. "Pride" became one of the top-grossing domestic films that year, demonstrating the growing popularity of revisionist views in Japan. Other nationalistic films have followed. Tojo's candidacy comes as the Japanese government takes steps toward a vote on revising its U.S.-drafted pacifist Constitution, which prohibits the use of war in settling international disputes. She has also rejected suggestions that Yasukuni stop honoring executed war criminals to allay views in China and South Korea that Japan has not fully atoned for its wartime atrocities there. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint.
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/I/IRAQ?SITE=KPUA&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	KPUA.net - Hilo, Hawaii News, Sports, and Information May 15, 3:09 PM EDT U.S. Detains 11 Iraqis in Search for GIs The Toll: Coalition Casualties Since March 2003 U.S. Allows Mahdi Army a Security Role Iraqis Struggle in Police Training Four Years: AP Journalists Look Back Iraq and Vietnam: Contrasting Protests Land Mines From Iran-Iraq War Sold on Black Market Iraqi Outpost Tests War Strategy Iraq's Toll Felt Across U.S. Soldier Diagnosed Before Attack end soldier diagnosis --> end interactive icon section --> How MySpace is Changing the Face of War Latest photos from Iraq Clinton, Obama Support War Fund Cutoff U.S. Seeks Gains in Shiite Militia Rifts U.S. Detains 11 Iraqis in Search for GIs No Photos Allowed After Iraqi Blasts Key Developments in Iraq on Tuesday Executive Summary: DOD Inspector General on Pre-Iraq War Intelligence Activities(2/9/2007) Unclassified National Intelligence Estimate Summary on Iraq (2/2/2007) Inspector General Report on Iraq Reconstruction (1/31/2007) Buy AP Photo Reprints BAGHDAD (AP) -- U.S. troops have questioned hundreds of people and detained 11 in the search for three American soldiers feared captured by al-Qaida during a deadly weekend ambush south of Baghdad, the military said Tuesday. Four American soldiers and an Iraqi were killed in the weekend ambush and their vehicles burned. Two Defense Department officials said they could not yet identify one of the dead, hampering the military's ability to determine who was missing. The officials spoke on condition of anonymity because the families had not been notified. "We have conducted more than 450 tactical interviews and detained 11 individuals" as of Monday night, U.S. military spokesman Lt. Col. Christopher Garver said. Two of the dead soldiers, including a 19-year-old whose stepfather is also serving in Iraq, were identified by their families. For a fourth day, jets, helicopters and unmanned surveillance aircraft crisscrossed the skies over the sparsely populated farm area near Mahmoudiya, 20 miles south of Baghdad to search for the missing soldiers. U.S. and Iraqi troops - backed by dog teams - searched vehicles and pedestrians. Other teams peered into crawl spaces and probed for possible secret chambers in homes. Among the dead was Sgt. 1st Class James David Connell Jr., 40, of Lake City, Tenn., whose family learned Saturday he had been killed. The soldier had just recovered from a shrapnel wound to the leg and had visited his family on leave earlier this month. "I'm proud of my dad, because he didn't really fight for himself, he fought for the country," Connell's teenage daughter, Courtney, told Knoxville's WATE-TV. Also killed was 19-year-old Pfc. Daniel Courneya, of Vermontville, Mich. In Michigan, students at Maple Valley High School created a memorial for Courneya, who graduated in 2005 and was well-known in the small community southwest of Lansing. He was a member of the school's track and soccer teams and played clarinet in the band. "It's a tribute of photos, posters, plaques and a picture of him in his uniform," school official Kelly Zank told The Associated Press on Tuesday. Courneya's mother, Wendy Thompson, said her husband, Army Spc. David Thompson, was in Iraq and returning home after learning of his stepson's death. The dead and missing are from the 10th Mount Division's 2nd Brigade Combat Team, Company D, 4th Battalion, 31st Infantry Regiment, nicknamed the "Polar Bears" and based at Fort Drum in New York. On Monday, the Islamic State of Iraq - an al-Qaida front group that claims it has the soldiers - warned the U.S. to halt its search by about 4,000 troops, and the Pentagon acknowledged for the first time that it believes the soldiers are in terrorist hands. Last June, al-Qaida claimed responsibility for the deaths of two U.S. soldiers whose mutilated bodies were later found in the same area. The three were last seen before a pre-dawn ambush Saturday that destroyed several Humvees in a U.S. convoy and killed four Americans and an Iraqi soldier traveling with them. Al-Qaida has been active for years in the string of towns and villages south of the capital, a mostly Sunni region known as the "triangle of death" because of frequent attacks on U.S. and Iraqi forces as well as Shiite civilians traveling to shrine cities in the south. During the search Monday, U.S. and Iraqi forces exchanged fire with gunmen near the town of Youssifiyah, killing two and injuring four, an Iraqi army officer said. On Tuesday, an Iraqi interpreter working with the U.S. soldiers said the coalition's search was focusing on rural areas outside Mahmoudiya and that life was proceeding as normal in the city. But he also said Iraqi civilians being stopped for questioning by U.S. forces appeared nervous that they could be attacked by insurgents later, if they were seen cooperating with the coalition. The interpreter spoke on condition of anonymity out of concern for his own security. The area around Mahmoudiya has long been especially volatile because Saddam Hussein recruited members of Sunni tribes there into his elite Republican Guard and intelligence services. Many of them were believed to have joined the insurgency after Saddam's regime collapsed in the 2003 U.S.-led invasion. U.S. officers also say extremists have fled Baghdad for surrounding areas to escape the three-month Baghdad security crackdown. Elsewhere, attacks using bombs or mortars killed a total of 10 people in two markets in Baghdad, and dozens of suspected insurgents attacked a village north of the capital, killing five civilians and wounding 14, Iraqi authorities said. A mortar or rocket slammed into the U.S.-controlled Green Zone, wounding five American Embassy contractors, a spokesman said. U.S. Embassy spokesman Lou Fintor said there were no deaths and property damage was minimal. He said the contractors' nationalities had "not yet been confirmed." Fintor said the embassy was "open and functioning normally." Under a new government policy limiting media coverage of such tragedies, Iraqi police prevented news photographers and cameramen from filming the scene. The order, announced over the weekend, is aimed at preventing journalists from inadvertently tampering with evidence, protecting the privacy of the wounded and keeping insurgents and militias from keeping track of their success rate. Associated Press writer Pauline Jelinek in Washington contributed to this report. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint.
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/I/IRAQ?SITE=KPUA&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	KPUA.net - Hilo, Hawaii News, Sports, and Information May 15, 3:09 PM EDT U.S. Detains 11 Iraqis in Search for GIs The Toll: Coalition Casualties Since March 2003 U.S. Allows Mahdi Army a Security Role Iraqis Struggle in Police Training Four Years: AP Journalists Look Back Iraq and Vietnam: Contrasting Protests Land Mines From Iran-Iraq War Sold on Black Market Iraqi Outpost Tests War Strategy Iraq's Toll Felt Across U.S. Soldier Diagnosed Before Attack end soldier diagnosis --> end interactive icon section --> How MySpace is Changing the Face of War Latest photos from Iraq Clinton, Obama Support War Fund Cutoff U.S. Seeks Gains in Shiite Militia Rifts U.S. Detains 11 Iraqis in Search for GIs No Photos Allowed After Iraqi Blasts Key Developments in Iraq on Tuesday Executive Summary: DOD Inspector General on Pre-Iraq War Intelligence Activities(2/9/2007) Unclassified National Intelligence Estimate Summary on Iraq (2/2/2007) Inspector General Report on Iraq Reconstruction (1/31/2007) Buy AP Photo Reprints BAGHDAD (AP) -- U.S. troops have questioned hundreds of people and detained 11 in the search for three American soldiers feared captured by al-Qaida during a deadly weekend ambush south of Baghdad, the military said Tuesday. Four American soldiers and an Iraqi were killed in the weekend ambush and their vehicles burned. Two Defense Department officials said they could not yet identify one of the dead, hampering the military's ability to determine who was missing. The officials spoke on condition of anonymity because the families had not been notified. "We have conducted more than 450 tactical interviews and detained 11 individuals" as of Monday night, U.S. military spokesman Lt. Col. Christopher Garver said. Two of the dead soldiers, including a 19-year-old whose stepfather is also serving in Iraq, were identified by their families. For a fourth day, jets, helicopters and unmanned surveillance aircraft crisscrossed the skies over the sparsely populated farm area near Mahmoudiya, 20 miles south of Baghdad to search for the missing soldiers. U.S. and Iraqi troops - backed by dog teams - searched vehicles and pedestrians. Other teams peered into crawl spaces and probed for possible secret chambers in homes. Among the dead was Sgt. 1st Class James David Connell Jr., 40, of Lake City, Tenn., whose family learned Saturday he had been killed. The soldier had just recovered from a shrapnel wound to the leg and had visited his family on leave earlier this month. "I'm proud of my dad, because he didn't really fight for himself, he fought for the country," Connell's teenage daughter, Courtney, told Knoxville's WATE-TV. Also killed was 19-year-old Pfc. Daniel Courneya, of Vermontville, Mich. In Michigan, students at Maple Valley High School created a memorial for Courneya, who graduated in 2005 and was well-known in the small community southwest of Lansing. He was a member of the school's track and soccer teams and played clarinet in the band. "It's a tribute of photos, posters, plaques and a picture of him in his uniform," school official Kelly Zank told The Associated Press on Tuesday. Courneya's mother, Wendy Thompson, said her husband, Army Spc. David Thompson, was in Iraq and returning home after learning of his stepson's death. The dead and missing are from the 10th Mount Division's 2nd Brigade Combat Team, Company D, 4th Battalion, 31st Infantry Regiment, nicknamed the "Polar Bears" and based at Fort Drum in New York. On Monday, the Islamic State of Iraq - an al-Qaida front group that claims it has the soldiers - warned the U.S. to halt its search by about 4,000 troops, and the Pentagon acknowledged for the first time that it believes the soldiers are in terrorist hands. Last June, al-Qaida claimed responsibility for the deaths of two U.S. soldiers whose mutilated bodies were later found in the same area. The three were last seen before a pre-dawn ambush Saturday that destroyed several Humvees in a U.S. convoy and killed four Americans and an Iraqi soldier traveling with them. Al-Qaida has been active for years in the string of towns and villages south of the capital, a mostly Sunni region known as the "triangle of death" because of frequent attacks on U.S. and Iraqi forces as well as Shiite civilians traveling to shrine cities in the south. During the search Monday, U.S. and Iraqi forces exchanged fire with gunmen near the town of Youssifiyah, killing two and injuring four, an Iraqi army officer said. On Tuesday, an Iraqi interpreter working with the U.S. soldiers said the coalition's search was focusing on rural areas outside Mahmoudiya and that life was proceeding as normal in the city. But he also said Iraqi civilians being stopped for questioning by U.S. forces appeared nervous that they could be attacked by insurgents later, if they were seen cooperating with the coalition. The interpreter spoke on condition of anonymity out of concern for his own security. The area around Mahmoudiya has long been especially volatile because Saddam Hussein recruited members of Sunni tribes there into his elite Republican Guard and intelligence services. Many of them were believed to have joined the insurgency after Saddam's regime collapsed in the 2003 U.S.-led invasion. U.S. officers also say extremists have fled Baghdad for surrounding areas to escape the three-month Baghdad security crackdown. Elsewhere, attacks using bombs or mortars killed a total of 10 people in two markets in Baghdad, and dozens of suspected insurgents attacked a village north of the capital, killing five civilians and wounding 14, Iraqi authorities said. A mortar or rocket slammed into the U.S.-controlled Green Zone, wounding five American Embassy contractors, a spokesman said. U.S. Embassy spokesman Lou Fintor said there were no deaths and property damage was minimal. He said the contractors' nationalities had "not yet been confirmed." Fintor said the embassy was "open and functioning normally." Under a new government policy limiting media coverage of such tragedies, Iraqi police prevented news photographers and cameramen from filming the scene. The order, announced over the weekend, is aimed at preventing journalists from inadvertently tampering with evidence, protecting the privacy of the wounded and keeping insurgents and militias from keeping track of their success rate. Associated Press writer Pauline Jelinek in Washington contributed to this report. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint.
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/C/CHIRACS_FAREWELL?SITE=KPUA&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	KPUA.net - Hilo, Hawaii News, Sports, and Information May 15, 3:59 PM EDT Chirac Says Goodbye to French Electorate Buy AP Photo Reprints PARIS (AP) -- Jacques Chirac, in his final presidential appeal to the French, urged his compatriots Tuesday to stay united and proud of the nation he led for 12 years despite uncertainty about France's place in today's world. "Always stay united," Chirac said in a brief televised address Tuesday night, before the debonair 74-year-old turns over the presidency to fellow conservative Nicolas Sarkozy on Wednesday. "A nation is a family. This link that unites us is our most precious asset," he said, sitting in front of French and European Union flags. He said France should be a nation of equal opportunity and an engine of European integration. Both appeals recalled low points of his tenure: the 2005 riots that laid bare deep-rooted discrimination against France's immigrants, and the French rejection of the EU constitution that Chirac had championed. He expressed "pride in a duty fulfilled" but did not list any accomplishments, and his statement lacked the eloquence and passion that have marked many of his speeches. "I know that the new president, Nicolas Sarkozy, will endeavor to lead our nation forward on the paths of the future," Chirac said of his protege-turned-rival, who was elected May 6 after promising an end to the economic stagnation and social tensions that marred Chirac's tenure. Chirac often shone brighter on the global stage than at home, but he made no reference in his parting speech to his dream of a "multi-polar world" less dominated by the United States, or of his steadfast opposition to the U.S.-led invasion of Iraq in 2003, a defining moment of his presidency. Chirac said he would turn his post-presidential attention to "dialogue among cultures and sustainable development." He is expected to create a foundation to capitalize on his international reputation, similar to that of former President Clinton. Aides say the Chirac foundation will focus particularly on Africa. Chirac sought to bring environmental issues into the spotlight, though critics say he had more words than action on the subject. He often stressed cultural understanding over exporting Western values - a stance that Sarkozy distanced himself from in an election-night speech in which he said France would stand beside those oppressed by fundamentalism. France's relations with Africa are likely to be less close and more pragmatic with the departure of Chirac, who nurtured ties with former colonies in Africa - and was criticized for cozying up to authoritarian African leaders. Sarkozy has few of those connections. Stepping down from the presidency, Chirac will be closing out some four decades in politics. Chirac founded the neo-Gaullist Rally for the Republic party, today transformed into the Union for a Popular Movement that Sarkozy headed before being elected president. Chirac built the mainstream right into a powerful political machine. His ambitious search for funds for his party is at the heart of corruption allegations that implicated him but never touched him while he had presidential immunity. He could be summoned for questioning in investigations into illegal party financing as soon as next month, judicial officials say. A former prime minister and longtime ally, Alain Juppe, was questioned Tuesday in a probe linked to Chirac's time as mayor of Paris from 1977-1995. Chirac said his goodbye to Europe on a visit to Berlin on May 3 - and Sarkozy makes his first foreign trip to Berlin immediately after his inauguration. Chirac famously misjudged French voters by staging a referendum on the European constitution. The French and Dutch rejections of the treaty have stalled European integration efforts since; Sarkozy seems keen to revive them with a more streamlined document. After leaving the Elysee Palace, Chirac and his wife Bernadette were to settle temporarily into a deluxe apartment on Paris' Left Bank on loan from the family of slain former Lebanese Prime Minister Rafik Hariri. He is to receive about $8,120 a month in retirement pay as a former president, in addition to retirement pay as a former Paris mayor and for other senior posts he has held. He is also entitled to join the Constitutional Council, one of the highest bodies in the land. The only other president to issue a televised farewell to the nation was Valery Giscard d'Estaing, on May 19, 1981, before turning over power to Socialist President Francois Mitterrand. With a much remembered final "au revoir," Giscard stood, made an exit and left an empty chair in the spotlight. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint.
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/C/CHIRACS_FAREWELL?SITE=KPUA&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	KPUA.net - Hilo, Hawaii News, Sports, and Information May 15, 3:59 PM EDT Chirac Says Goodbye to French Electorate Buy AP Photo Reprints PARIS (AP) -- Jacques Chirac, in his final presidential appeal to the French, urged his compatriots Tuesday to stay united and proud of the nation he led for 12 years despite uncertainty about France's place in today's world. "Always stay united," Chirac said in a brief televised address Tuesday night, before the debonair 74-year-old turns over the presidency to fellow conservative Nicolas Sarkozy on Wednesday. "A nation is a family. This link that unites us is our most precious asset," he said, sitting in front of French and European Union flags. He said France should be a nation of equal opportunity and an engine of European integration. Both appeals recalled low points of his tenure: the 2005 riots that laid bare deep-rooted discrimination against France's immigrants, and the French rejection of the EU constitution that Chirac had championed. He expressed "pride in a duty fulfilled" but did not list any accomplishments, and his statement lacked the eloquence and passion that have marked many of his speeches. "I know that the new president, Nicolas Sarkozy, will endeavor to lead our nation forward on the paths of the future," Chirac said of his protege-turned-rival, who was elected May 6 after promising an end to the economic stagnation and social tensions that marred Chirac's tenure. Chirac often shone brighter on the global stage than at home, but he made no reference in his parting speech to his dream of a "multi-polar world" less dominated by the United States, or of his steadfast opposition to the U.S.-led invasion of Iraq in 2003, a defining moment of his presidency. Chirac said he would turn his post-presidential attention to "dialogue among cultures and sustainable development." He is expected to create a foundation to capitalize on his international reputation, similar to that of former President Clinton. Aides say the Chirac foundation will focus particularly on Africa. Chirac sought to bring environmental issues into the spotlight, though critics say he had more words than action on the subject. He often stressed cultural understanding over exporting Western values - a stance that Sarkozy distanced himself from in an election-night speech in which he said France would stand beside those oppressed by fundamentalism. France's relations with Africa are likely to be less close and more pragmatic with the departure of Chirac, who nurtured ties with former colonies in Africa - and was criticized for cozying up to authoritarian African leaders. Sarkozy has few of those connections. Stepping down from the presidency, Chirac will be closing out some four decades in politics. Chirac founded the neo-Gaullist Rally for the Republic party, today transformed into the Union for a Popular Movement that Sarkozy headed before being elected president. Chirac built the mainstream right into a powerful political machine. His ambitious search for funds for his party is at the heart of corruption allegations that implicated him but never touched him while he had presidential immunity. He could be summoned for questioning in investigations into illegal party financing as soon as next month, judicial officials say. A former prime minister and longtime ally, Alain Juppe, was questioned Tuesday in a probe linked to Chirac's time as mayor of Paris from 1977-1995. Chirac said his goodbye to Europe on a visit to Berlin on May 3 - and Sarkozy makes his first foreign trip to Berlin immediately after his inauguration. Chirac famously misjudged French voters by staging a referendum on the European constitution. The French and Dutch rejections of the treaty have stalled European integration efforts since; Sarkozy seems keen to revive them with a more streamlined document. After leaving the Elysee Palace, Chirac and his wife Bernadette were to settle temporarily into a deluxe apartment on Paris' Left Bank on loan from the family of slain former Lebanese Prime Minister Rafik Hariri. He is to receive about $8,120 a month in retirement pay as a former president, in addition to retirement pay as a former Paris mayor and for other senior posts he has held. He is also entitled to join the Constitutional Council, one of the highest bodies in the land. The only other president to issue a televised farewell to the nation was Valery Giscard d'Estaing, on May 19, 1981, before turning over power to Socialist President Francois Mitterrand. With a much remembered final "au revoir," Giscard stood, made an exit and left an empty chair in the spotlight. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint.
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/I/ISRAEL_PALESTINIANS?SITE=KPUA&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	KPUA.net - Hilo, Hawaii News, Sports, and Information May 15, 4:26 PM EDT Factional Fighting Terrorizes Gaza By IBRAHIM BARZAK and KARIN LAUB Pardoned Oil Financier Gets Degree Factional Fighting Terrorizes Gaza Egyptian Charged As Spy Praises Israel Jordan's King Set to Meet Olmert Abbas: Implement Security Plan Poll: Europeans See Jewish Influence Olmert, Jordanian King to Discuss Peace Israel Prepares for Jerusalem Day Conflict in the Middle East Buy AP Photo Reprints GAZA CITY, Gaza Strip (AP) -- Hamas gunmen riddled a Fatah police jeep with gunfire at close range Tuesday, killing eight policemen in the most ruthless round yet of factional fighting, pushing the Palestinian unity government closer to collapse. Gunmen in black ski masks controlled the streets and terrified residents huddled in their homes. Israel, too, was briefly drawn into the battle. "I don't know when it's going to end and what the future will bring," said Salman Abu Arafeh, 42, a Gaza City interior decorator who was pinned down by gunfire in the hallway of his apartment for hours, along with his wife and two children. A total of 14 people were killed in Tuesday's fighting. In the West Bank, Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas called for the immediate implementation of a security plan that would put all rival forces under one command. However, his call is unlikely to be heeded: the fighting made it clear the Hamas-Fatah power struggle was never really resolved, despite formation of the unity government in March. Gaza's turmoil further weakened hopes for a resumption of Israeli-Palestinian peace talks, despite a new push by the Arab world to bring the sides to the table, based on an offer of Arab recognition of Israel in exchange for an Israeli withdrawal from all lands it occupied in the 1967 Middle East War. Israel has expressed major reservations, but Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert told Jordan's King Abdullah on Tuesday that he's ready to meet with Arab leaders in Israel or anywhere else to talk about the idea. Abdullah, in turn, asked Olmert to set a timetable for reaching a peace deal. Negotiations, however, are inconceivable if the Palestinians descend into a protracted civil war. This week's fighting was the worst since Hamas and Fatah agreed to share power in February. In all, 22 people have been killed and dozens wounded in three days of street fighting. Among the injured was a 10-year-old girl caught in the crossfire late Tuesday and critically wounded by a gunshot to the head, Palestinian rescue workers said. In the deadliest battle, Hamas gunmen fired rockets, rocket-propelled grenades and mortars early Tuesday at a training base for Fatah forces guarding the Karni cargo crossing with Israel. U.S. security experts had helped set up the base to improve security at Karni. After the initial attack, Hamas fired on Fatah reinforcements rushing to the scene, and one of the jeeps carrying Fatah fighters veered off the road and crashed. Hamas gunmen surrounded the vehicle and riddled it with gunfire, said one witness, who works in a nearby factory. "It was unbelievable. May God help us," said the man, who gave only his first name, Jamil, out of fear for his safety. Eight men were killed, hospital officials said. Fatah security men also came under fire as they tried to move the bodies away from the overturned jeep. Two Israeli helicopter gunships and three tanks moved toward the area, and Hamas fighters quickly withdrew. At one point, a major in the Palestinian Presidential Guard was killed by Israeli army fire as he tried to leave the crossing, security officials said. Before sundown, Hamas said it fired rockets at Sderot, an Israeli town near Gaza in retaliation for the Israeli attack. Residents counted more than 20 rockets. One rocket hit a house, seriously wounding an Israeli woman. It was the first time in three weeks that Hamas has claimed responsibility for a rocket barrage. Israeli military officials said Israel has no intention of letting itself be drawn into the fighting. However, Israel closed Karni, the only route for cargo into Gaza. The closure means Gaza will soon run out of fuel for its power plant and electricity to most of the strip could be shut down by Wednesday, said Abdel Karim Abdeen, head of the Palestinian Energy Authority. The current fighting had many of the elements of previous Hamas-Fatah clashes: combatants kidnapped scores of rivals, set up roadblocks to search cars, took over rooftops of high-rises and often fired randomly in crowded residential areas. Around Abbas' seaside compound in Gaza City, security forces searched cars and inspected motorists' ID cards. They gave those with beards - a possible sign of Hamas support - an extra close look. Both sides have become more ruthless this time, with Fatah accused of an execution-style killing of two Hamas supporters Sunday and Hamas ambushing the Fatah jeep Tuesday. This might make it more difficult to negotiate a cease-fire and revive the coalition. At the core of the fighting is the unresolved power struggle between Hamas, which won parliamentary elections last year, and Abbas' Fatah, which has dominated Palestinian politics for four decades. Squeezed by an international aid boycott, Hamas realized it could govern alone and brought Fatah into the government. But the two sides never worked out their differences, particularly over security. While the power-sharing deal largely halted factional fighting for three months, both sides continued to smuggle weapons through tunnels under the Egypt-Gaza border, preparing for the next round. The spark for the new fighting was deployment of 3,000 Fatah-allied members of the security forces in Gaza City last week, over Hamas' objections. Hamas has also bristled at Abbas' appointment of former Gaza strongman Mohammed Dahlan as his national security adviser. "Palestinian society is now similar to Lebanese society - always in civil war or on the verge of civil war," said analyst Hillel Frisch of Israel's Bar-Ilan University. "It's going to be cyclical: both sides know the tremendous costs, so they try to contain it, but the problem is simply left unresolved, and is probably unresolvable," he said. Both sides accused each other of waging a carefully orchestrated campaign to destroy the other. The National Security, a force loyal to Abbas, said Hamas is leading a military coup against the Palestinian security establishment. A Hamas spokesman, Abdel Latif Kanuah, said Fatah is involved in a U.S.-backed plot to overthrow Hamas, referring to U.S.-backing for Abbas' elite forces, the Presidential Guards. Despite the unity government's shortcomings - and its failure to end the international embargo imposed on Hamas - it's unlikely Abbas will dissolve it and call early elections. Hamas would consider that an attempt to steal its election victory and likely oppose it violently. Karin Laub contributed to this report from Ramallah. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint.
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/I/ISRAEL_PALESTINIANS?SITE=KPUA&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	KPUA.net - Hilo, Hawaii News, Sports, and Information May 15, 4:26 PM EDT Factional Fighting Terrorizes Gaza By IBRAHIM BARZAK and KARIN LAUB Pardoned Oil Financier Gets Degree Factional Fighting Terrorizes Gaza Egyptian Charged As Spy Praises Israel Jordan's King Set to Meet Olmert Abbas: Implement Security Plan Poll: Europeans See Jewish Influence Olmert, Jordanian King to Discuss Peace Israel Prepares for Jerusalem Day Conflict in the Middle East Buy AP Photo Reprints GAZA CITY, Gaza Strip (AP) -- Hamas gunmen riddled a Fatah police jeep with gunfire at close range Tuesday, killing eight policemen in the most ruthless round yet of factional fighting, pushing the Palestinian unity government closer to collapse. Gunmen in black ski masks controlled the streets and terrified residents huddled in their homes. Israel, too, was briefly drawn into the battle. "I don't know when it's going to end and what the future will bring," said Salman Abu Arafeh, 42, a Gaza City interior decorator who was pinned down by gunfire in the hallway of his apartment for hours, along with his wife and two children. A total of 14 people were killed in Tuesday's fighting. In the West Bank, Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas called for the immediate implementation of a security plan that would put all rival forces under one command. However, his call is unlikely to be heeded: the fighting made it clear the Hamas-Fatah power struggle was never really resolved, despite formation of the unity government in March. Gaza's turmoil further weakened hopes for a resumption of Israeli-Palestinian peace talks, despite a new push by the Arab world to bring the sides to the table, based on an offer of Arab recognition of Israel in exchange for an Israeli withdrawal from all lands it occupied in the 1967 Middle East War. Israel has expressed major reservations, but Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert told Jordan's King Abdullah on Tuesday that he's ready to meet with Arab leaders in Israel or anywhere else to talk about the idea. Abdullah, in turn, asked Olmert to set a timetable for reaching a peace deal. Negotiations, however, are inconceivable if the Palestinians descend into a protracted civil war. This week's fighting was the worst since Hamas and Fatah agreed to share power in February. In all, 22 people have been killed and dozens wounded in three days of street fighting. Among the injured was a 10-year-old girl caught in the crossfire late Tuesday and critically wounded by a gunshot to the head, Palestinian rescue workers said. In the deadliest battle, Hamas gunmen fired rockets, rocket-propelled grenades and mortars early Tuesday at a training base for Fatah forces guarding the Karni cargo crossing with Israel. U.S. security experts had helped set up the base to improve security at Karni. After the initial attack, Hamas fired on Fatah reinforcements rushing to the scene, and one of the jeeps carrying Fatah fighters veered off the road and crashed. Hamas gunmen surrounded the vehicle and riddled it with gunfire, said one witness, who works in a nearby factory. "It was unbelievable. May God help us," said the man, who gave only his first name, Jamil, out of fear for his safety. Eight men were killed, hospital officials said. Fatah security men also came under fire as they tried to move the bodies away from the overturned jeep. Two Israeli helicopter gunships and three tanks moved toward the area, and Hamas fighters quickly withdrew. At one point, a major in the Palestinian Presidential Guard was killed by Israeli army fire as he tried to leave the crossing, security officials said. Before sundown, Hamas said it fired rockets at Sderot, an Israeli town near Gaza in retaliation for the Israeli attack. Residents counted more than 20 rockets. One rocket hit a house, seriously wounding an Israeli woman. It was the first time in three weeks that Hamas has claimed responsibility for a rocket barrage. Israeli military officials said Israel has no intention of letting itself be drawn into the fighting. However, Israel closed Karni, the only route for cargo into Gaza. The closure means Gaza will soon run out of fuel for its power plant and electricity to most of the strip could be shut down by Wednesday, said Abdel Karim Abdeen, head of the Palestinian Energy Authority. The current fighting had many of the elements of previous Hamas-Fatah clashes: combatants kidnapped scores of rivals, set up roadblocks to search cars, took over rooftops of high-rises and often fired randomly in crowded residential areas. Around Abbas' seaside compound in Gaza City, security forces searched cars and inspected motorists' ID cards. They gave those with beards - a possible sign of Hamas support - an extra close look. Both sides have become more ruthless this time, with Fatah accused of an execution-style killing of two Hamas supporters Sunday and Hamas ambushing the Fatah jeep Tuesday. This might make it more difficult to negotiate a cease-fire and revive the coalition. At the core of the fighting is the unresolved power struggle between Hamas, which won parliamentary elections last year, and Abbas' Fatah, which has dominated Palestinian politics for four decades. Squeezed by an international aid boycott, Hamas realized it could govern alone and brought Fatah into the government. But the two sides never worked out their differences, particularly over security. While the power-sharing deal largely halted factional fighting for three months, both sides continued to smuggle weapons through tunnels under the Egypt-Gaza border, preparing for the next round. The spark for the new fighting was deployment of 3,000 Fatah-allied members of the security forces in Gaza City last week, over Hamas' objections. Hamas has also bristled at Abbas' appointment of former Gaza strongman Mohammed Dahlan as his national security adviser. "Palestinian society is now similar to Lebanese society - always in civil war or on the verge of civil war," said analyst Hillel Frisch of Israel's Bar-Ilan University. "It's going to be cyclical: both sides know the tremendous costs, so they try to contain it, but the problem is simply left unresolved, and is probably unresolvable," he said. Both sides accused each other of waging a carefully orchestrated campaign to destroy the other. The National Security, a force loyal to Abbas, said Hamas is leading a military coup against the Palestinian security establishment. A Hamas spokesman, Abdel Latif Kanuah, said Fatah is involved in a U.S.-backed plot to overthrow Hamas, referring to U.S.-backing for Abbas' elite forces, the Presidential Guards. Despite the unity government's shortcomings - and its failure to end the international embargo imposed on Hamas - it's unlikely Abbas will dissolve it and call early elections. Hamas would consider that an attempt to steal its election victory and likely oppose it violently. Karin Laub contributed to this report from Ramallah. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint.
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/P/PORTUGAL_MISSING_GIRL?SITE=KPUA&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	KPUA.net - Hilo, Hawaii News, Sports, and Information May 15, 4:28 PM EDT Suspect Freed in Girl's Disappearance Man Investigated in Missing Girl Case Suspect Freed in Girl's Disappearance Buy AP Photo Reprints LISBON, Portugal (AP) -- Portuguese police released a suspect they questioned about a missing British girl because there was not enough evidence to file charges against him, an official said Tuesday. Detectives searched five houses Monday as part of their investigation of the 33-year-old man, identified in media reports as British, and seized some of his belongings, said inspector Olegario de Sousa. Detectives also questioned two other people as part of the same inquiry into 4-year-old Madeleine McCann's disappearance in southern Portugal, he said. The girl vanished May 3 after her parents left her, and her brother and sister, both aged 2, alone while they went to a nearby restaurant within their hotel complex in Portugal's Algarve region, a popular European tourist destination. The suspect lives near the hotel where the girl disappeared, De Sousa said. He declined to give the man's name or nationality, citing Portuguese secrecy laws. The man's seized belongings are being examined for possible evidence, he said. "We hope they throw more light on the case," De Sousa said. Police placed the man under formal investigation. In Portuguese law, opening a formal investigation is a first step toward possibly bringing formal charges. The legal measure is designed to safeguard a citizen's constitutional rights. It grants the person in question access to potential evidence and allows the person to mount a legal defense. On Monday, police searched a villa where local media say the suspect lived with his British mother. They took away computers and cellular phones, Portugal's national news agency Lusa said. Police reportedly drained the villa's pool. The villa is about 100 yards from the hotel where Madeleine and her family, from central England, were staying. Portuguese media said the suspect had mingled with journalists outside the hotel in the days following the girl's disappearance and offered to act as an interpreter. He reportedly speaks English and Portuguese fluently. A British journalist told Sky News she had told local police the man was behaving suspiciously and had encouraged them to follow leads suggesting the girl had been kidnapped and taken to Spain. Last week, police called off their ground search for Madeleine, whose parents are still at the hotel. British media have said that promised contributions to a reward fund total some $5.1 million, including reported donations from Harry Potter author J.K. Rowling, tycoon Sir Richard Branson and "American Idol" judge Simon Cowell. Also, celebrities including soccer star David Beckham have made public appeals for help in finding Madeleine. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint.
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/P/PORTUGAL_MISSING_GIRL?SITE=KPUA&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	KPUA.net - Hilo, Hawaii News, Sports, and Information May 15, 4:28 PM EDT Suspect Freed in Girl's Disappearance Man Investigated in Missing Girl Case Suspect Freed in Girl's Disappearance Buy AP Photo Reprints LISBON, Portugal (AP) -- Portuguese police released a suspect they questioned about a missing British girl because there was not enough evidence to file charges against him, an official said Tuesday. Detectives searched five houses Monday as part of their investigation of the 33-year-old man, identified in media reports as British, and seized some of his belongings, said inspector Olegario de Sousa. Detectives also questioned two other people as part of the same inquiry into 4-year-old Madeleine McCann's disappearance in southern Portugal, he said. The girl vanished May 3 after her parents left her, and her brother and sister, both aged 2, alone while they went to a nearby restaurant within their hotel complex in Portugal's Algarve region, a popular European tourist destination. The suspect lives near the hotel where the girl disappeared, De Sousa said. He declined to give the man's name or nationality, citing Portuguese secrecy laws. The man's seized belongings are being examined for possible evidence, he said. "We hope they throw more light on the case," De Sousa said. Police placed the man under formal investigation. In Portuguese law, opening a formal investigation is a first step toward possibly bringing formal charges. The legal measure is designed to safeguard a citizen's constitutional rights. It grants the person in question access to potential evidence and allows the person to mount a legal defense. On Monday, police searched a villa where local media say the suspect lived with his British mother. They took away computers and cellular phones, Portugal's national news agency Lusa said. Police reportedly drained the villa's pool. The villa is about 100 yards from the hotel where Madeleine and her family, from central England, were staying. Portuguese media said the suspect had mingled with journalists outside the hotel in the days following the girl's disappearance and offered to act as an interpreter. He reportedly speaks English and Portuguese fluently. A British journalist told Sky News she had told local police the man was behaving suspiciously and had encouraged them to follow leads suggesting the girl had been kidnapped and taken to Spain. Last week, police called off their ground search for Madeleine, whose parents are still at the hotel. British media have said that promised contributions to a reward fund total some $5.1 million, including reported donations from Harry Potter author J.K. Rowling, tycoon Sir Richard Branson and "American Idol" judge Simon Cowell. Also, celebrities including soccer star David Beckham have made public appeals for help in finding Madeleine. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint.
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/I/IRAN_NUCLEAR?SITE=KPUA&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	KPUA.net - Hilo, Hawaii News, Sports, and Information May 15, 3:41 PM EDT Iran Nuclear Progress 'Slow but Steady' By WILLIAM J. KOLE Iran Nuclear Progress 'Slow but Steady' Iranians Want to Talk to U.S. Congress Iran: Academic Held for Security Crimes Iranian Leader Works to End US-Gulf Ties 2 Banned Papers Publish Again in Iran Ahmadinejad's Letter to President Bush Buy AP Photo Reprints VIENNA, Austria (AP) -- Iran is making "slow but steady" progress in its efforts to enrich uranium, but probably still wouldn't have enough fuel for a single nuclear warhead until 2009 at the earliest, a former U.N. inspector said Tuesday. David Albright, who now heads the Washington-based Institute for Science and International Security, said Iran still must overcome some tricky obstacles if it intends to enrich uranium to weapons grade - and it may take tougher sanctions to stop it. "Iran's been making slow but steady progress," he told The Associated Press in a telephone interview. "We think Iran has been moving faster than (the U.S. government) has anticipated." Tehran could have 3,000 centrifuges installed by the end of June at its main nuclear facility at Natanz, although it would need several months more to learn how to operate them, Albright said. The Vienna-based International Atomic Energy Agency is expected to submit its latest report on Iran's nuclear program to the U.N. Security Council by early next week. Gregory L. Schulte, the chief U.S. envoy to the IAEA, said Tuesday that Washington "would welcome a report verifying that Iran has suspended its enrichment-related activities" and give inspectors broader access. "Unfortunately, I don't foresee such a report," Schulte said in a speech at the University of Vienna, calling Iran "a blatant case of noncompliance" with the Nuclear Non-proliferation Treaty. "Iran continues to defy Security Council demands and shows no sign of planning to comply," he said. "Iran's leadership is actively and defiantly pursuing the technology, material and know-how to produce nuclear weapons." Iran insists its nuclear program is purely peaceful and geared solely toward producing electricity. The U.S. contends it is covertly trying to build nuclear weapons. Agency inspectors who visited the complex on short notice Sunday found evidence to suggest that Iran may have overcome technological challenges and has started enriching uranium on a significantly wider scale, The New York Times reported Tuesday. Agency chief Mohamed ElBaradei is now arguing that diplomatic efforts to get Iran to suspend enrichment may no longer make sense if the Islamic republic now has the technical ability to enrich on a large scale, a diplomat familiar with the inspection process told the AP. "What he's saying is that we've now crossed a line," said the diplomat, speaking on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to speak with reporters. "If the horse has left the barn, there's not much sense in focusing on the barn - you have to deal with the horse," the diplomat said. But Schulte said the international community would insist on suspension to contain what he called "activities that really only make sense in the context of a military program." Albright cautioned against concluding that Iran is on the verge of producing an atomic weapon, saying 2009 is the "worst-case scenario" for it to have developed a single warhead. "Our own assessment has been that they've learned to operate a centrifuge over the last six months. What they haven't done is shown that they know how to operate 1,000 centrifuges," he said. Centrifuges, which spin at high speeds to make nuclear fuel, are tricky to operate and are subject to breakdown, Albright added, contending Iran "isn't out of the woods yet." Iran's top nuclear negotiator, Ali Larijani, has agreed to meet European Union foreign policy chief Javier Solana on May 31 to discuss the deadlock over a U.N. demand that Tehran freeze uranium enrichment, Iran's state news agency reported Tuesday. Abandoning the drive to persuade Tehran to suspend its enrichment activities doesn't make sense, said Albright, who contends the U.S. and its allies would lose their "moral high ground" if they ease up. "Iran is steadily moving toward nuclear weapons capability, and the negotiations are not working, and we may have to settle into an extended crisis where we need to sanction Iran and further isolate them," he said. "But this doesn't mean war. ... You have to resist the urge to strike out militarily, which could even be worse than Iran gaining nuclear weaponry," he said. International Atomic Energy Agency, &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint.
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/I/IRAN_NUCLEAR?SITE=KPUA&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	KPUA.net - Hilo, Hawaii News, Sports, and Information May 15, 3:41 PM EDT Iran Nuclear Progress 'Slow but Steady' By WILLIAM J. KOLE Iran Nuclear Progress 'Slow but Steady' Iranians Want to Talk to U.S. Congress Iran: Academic Held for Security Crimes Iranian Leader Works to End US-Gulf Ties 2 Banned Papers Publish Again in Iran Ahmadinejad's Letter to President Bush Buy AP Photo Reprints VIENNA, Austria (AP) -- Iran is making "slow but steady" progress in its efforts to enrich uranium, but probably still wouldn't have enough fuel for a single nuclear warhead until 2009 at the earliest, a former U.N. inspector said Tuesday. David Albright, who now heads the Washington-based Institute for Science and International Security, said Iran still must overcome some tricky obstacles if it intends to enrich uranium to weapons grade - and it may take tougher sanctions to stop it. "Iran's been making slow but steady progress," he told The Associated Press in a telephone interview. "We think Iran has been moving faster than (the U.S. government) has anticipated." Tehran could have 3,000 centrifuges installed by the end of June at its main nuclear facility at Natanz, although it would need several months more to learn how to operate them, Albright said. The Vienna-based International Atomic Energy Agency is expected to submit its latest report on Iran's nuclear program to the U.N. Security Council by early next week. Gregory L. Schulte, the chief U.S. envoy to the IAEA, said Tuesday that Washington "would welcome a report verifying that Iran has suspended its enrichment-related activities" and give inspectors broader access. "Unfortunately, I don't foresee such a report," Schulte said in a speech at the University of Vienna, calling Iran "a blatant case of noncompliance" with the Nuclear Non-proliferation Treaty. "Iran continues to defy Security Council demands and shows no sign of planning to comply," he said. "Iran's leadership is actively and defiantly pursuing the technology, material and know-how to produce nuclear weapons." Iran insists its nuclear program is purely peaceful and geared solely toward producing electricity. The U.S. contends it is covertly trying to build nuclear weapons. Agency inspectors who visited the complex on short notice Sunday found evidence to suggest that Iran may have overcome technological challenges and has started enriching uranium on a significantly wider scale, The New York Times reported Tuesday. Agency chief Mohamed ElBaradei is now arguing that diplomatic efforts to get Iran to suspend enrichment may no longer make sense if the Islamic republic now has the technical ability to enrich on a large scale, a diplomat familiar with the inspection process told the AP. "What he's saying is that we've now crossed a line," said the diplomat, speaking on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to speak with reporters. "If the horse has left the barn, there's not much sense in focusing on the barn - you have to deal with the horse," the diplomat said. But Schulte said the international community would insist on suspension to contain what he called "activities that really only make sense in the context of a military program." Albright cautioned against concluding that Iran is on the verge of producing an atomic weapon, saying 2009 is the "worst-case scenario" for it to have developed a single warhead. "Our own assessment has been that they've learned to operate a centrifuge over the last six months. What they haven't done is shown that they know how to operate 1,000 centrifuges," he said. Centrifuges, which spin at high speeds to make nuclear fuel, are tricky to operate and are subject to breakdown, Albright added, contending Iran "isn't out of the woods yet." Iran's top nuclear negotiator, Ali Larijani, has agreed to meet European Union foreign policy chief Javier Solana on May 31 to discuss the deadlock over a U.N. demand that Tehran freeze uranium enrichment, Iran's state news agency reported Tuesday. Abandoning the drive to persuade Tehran to suspend its enrichment activities doesn't make sense, said Albright, who contends the U.S. and its allies would lose their "moral high ground" if they ease up. "Iran is steadily moving toward nuclear weapons capability, and the negotiations are not working, and we may have to settle into an extended crisis where we need to sanction Iran and further isolate them," he said. "But this doesn't mean war. ... You have to resist the urge to strike out militarily, which could even be worse than Iran gaining nuclear weaponry," he said. International Atomic Energy Agency, &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint.
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/B/BRAZIL_MISSIONARY_KILLED?SITE=KPUA&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	KPUA.net - Hilo, Hawaii News, Sports, and Information May 15, 5:09 PM EDT Rancher Guilty in Killing of U.S. Nun Rancher Guilty in Killing of U.S. Nun Pope Assails Marxism and Capitalism Pope News Conference Causes Stir Pope to Canonize First Brazilian Saint Pope Visits Brazil, Church Loses Ground Buy AP Photo Reprints Justice Delayed: Latin America's Dirty Wars Leaning Left: Political Changes in Latin America Rancher Guilty in Killing of U.S. Nun Brazil Indigenous Groups Fault Pope Talk Shake-Up in Colombia's Security Forces Cuba Tries Castro Archenemy in Absentia Colombia Orders More Lawmakers Arrested BELEM, Brazil (AP) -- A Brazilian rancher was convicted Tuesday of ordering the killing of an American nun and rain forest defender in a case seen as an important test of justice in the largely lawless Amazon region. A judge sentenced him to 30 years in prison. Vitalmiro Bastos de Moura "showed a violent personality unsuited to living in society," the judge said in sentencing him to the maximum penalty for the 2005 slaying of 73-year-old Dorothy Stang. The "killing was carried out in violent and cowardly manner," Judge Raymond Moises Alves Flexa said. Stang's brother David, who flew to Brazil for the two-day trial, trembled and wept after the verdict. "Justice was done," he said, adding that he now believed another rancher also accused of ordering his sister's killing may be convicted when he goes to trial later this year. Stang, a naturalized Brazilian originally from Dayton, Ohio, helped build schools and was among the activists who worked to defend the rights of impoverished and exploited farmers drawn to the Amazon region. She also attempted to halt the rampant jungle clearing by loggers and ranchers that has destroyed some 20 percent of the forest cover. Tuesday's verdict came after three other men convicted in connection with the killing - a gunman, his accomplice and a go-between - recanted earlier testimony that Moura had offered them $25,000 to kill Stang in a conflict over land he wanted to log and develop. Human rights defenders said the trial was a key measure of whether the powerful masterminds behind land-related killings can be held accountable in the Amazon state of Para. Of nearly 800 such killings during the past 30 years, only four masterminds have been convicted and none are behind bars. Shortly after Stang's killing, President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva ordered the army into the region, suspended logging permits and ordered large swathes of rain forest off-limits to development. Moura denied ordering the killing during the trial, and his lawyer mounted a lengthy anti-American tirade in his closing arguments, calling Stang "the fruit of a poisoned tree." Accusing the United States of crimes ranging from atom bombs dropped on Japan during World War II to the treatment of prisoners at its Guantanamo Bay detention center in Cuba, defense attorney Americo Leal said Stang "shares this DNA of violence, the DNA to kill." "The victim didn't stop practicing her criminal activity and she died as a result of the violence she tried to implant," he said. David Stang expressed dismay. "The trial's about Bida, Dorothy was the victim," Stang said, referring to Moura by his nickname. "So this fantasy world the defense lawyers are trying to create only maintains this cycle of killings." On Monday, Moura denied he ordered Stang's killing, maintaining he did not even know the nun, who had been organizing poor settlers around the jungle town of Anapu for 23 years. "This thing about money isn't true. This thing about me and Bida talking isn't true," Clodoaldo Carlos Batista said Monday, in recanting his earlier testimony implicating Moura. Batista, who was sentenced to 17 years in prison as an accomplice to gunman Rayfran Neves Sales, claimed he had been coerced into implicating Moura by two American FBI agents who traveled to Brazil shortly after the murder to monitor the police investigation. Both Batista and Sales, who was sentenced to 27 years in prison, claimed the agents threatened to send them to the United States, where they could face the death penalty if they did not cooperate. Brazil does not have the death penalty and the most a convict can serve at a single stretch is 30 years. U.S. Embassy spokesman Richard Mei said Brazil does not allow the extradition of its citizens to other countries for crimes committed in Brazil. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint.
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/B/BRAZIL_MISSIONARY_KILLED?SITE=KPUA&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	KPUA.net - Hilo, Hawaii News, Sports, and Information May 15, 5:09 PM EDT Rancher Guilty in Killing of U.S. Nun Rancher Guilty in Killing of U.S. Nun Pope Assails Marxism and Capitalism Pope News Conference Causes Stir Pope to Canonize First Brazilian Saint Pope Visits Brazil, Church Loses Ground Buy AP Photo Reprints Justice Delayed: Latin America's Dirty Wars Leaning Left: Political Changes in Latin America Rancher Guilty in Killing of U.S. Nun Brazil Indigenous Groups Fault Pope Talk Shake-Up in Colombia's Security Forces Cuba Tries Castro Archenemy in Absentia Colombia Orders More Lawmakers Arrested BELEM, Brazil (AP) -- A Brazilian rancher was convicted Tuesday of ordering the killing of an American nun and rain forest defender in a case seen as an important test of justice in the largely lawless Amazon region. A judge sentenced him to 30 years in prison. Vitalmiro Bastos de Moura "showed a violent personality unsuited to living in society," the judge said in sentencing him to the maximum penalty for the 2005 slaying of 73-year-old Dorothy Stang. The "killing was carried out in violent and cowardly manner," Judge Raymond Moises Alves Flexa said. Stang's brother David, who flew to Brazil for the two-day trial, trembled and wept after the verdict. "Justice was done," he said, adding that he now believed another rancher also accused of ordering his sister's killing may be convicted when he goes to trial later this year. Stang, a naturalized Brazilian originally from Dayton, Ohio, helped build schools and was among the activists who worked to defend the rights of impoverished and exploited farmers drawn to the Amazon region. She also attempted to halt the rampant jungle clearing by loggers and ranchers that has destroyed some 20 percent of the forest cover. Tuesday's verdict came after three other men convicted in connection with the killing - a gunman, his accomplice and a go-between - recanted earlier testimony that Moura had offered them $25,000 to kill Stang in a conflict over land he wanted to log and develop. Human rights defenders said the trial was a key measure of whether the powerful masterminds behind land-related killings can be held accountable in the Amazon state of Para. Of nearly 800 such killings during the past 30 years, only four masterminds have been convicted and none are behind bars. Shortly after Stang's killing, President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva ordered the army into the region, suspended logging permits and ordered large swathes of rain forest off-limits to development. Moura denied ordering the killing during the trial, and his lawyer mounted a lengthy anti-American tirade in his closing arguments, calling Stang "the fruit of a poisoned tree." Accusing the United States of crimes ranging from atom bombs dropped on Japan during World War II to the treatment of prisoners at its Guantanamo Bay detention center in Cuba, defense attorney Americo Leal said Stang "shares this DNA of violence, the DNA to kill." "The victim didn't stop practicing her criminal activity and she died as a result of the violence she tried to implant," he said. David Stang expressed dismay. "The trial's about Bida, Dorothy was the victim," Stang said, referring to Moura by his nickname. "So this fantasy world the defense lawyers are trying to create only maintains this cycle of killings." On Monday, Moura denied he ordered Stang's killing, maintaining he did not even know the nun, who had been organizing poor settlers around the jungle town of Anapu for 23 years. "This thing about money isn't true. This thing about me and Bida talking isn't true," Clodoaldo Carlos Batista said Monday, in recanting his earlier testimony implicating Moura. Batista, who was sentenced to 17 years in prison as an accomplice to gunman Rayfran Neves Sales, claimed he had been coerced into implicating Moura by two American FBI agents who traveled to Brazil shortly after the murder to monitor the police investigation. Both Batista and Sales, who was sentenced to 27 years in prison, claimed the agents threatened to send them to the United States, where they could face the death penalty if they did not cooperate. Brazil does not have the death penalty and the most a convict can serve at a single stretch is 30 years. U.S. Embassy spokesman Richard Mei said Brazil does not allow the extradition of its citizens to other countries for crimes committed in Brazil. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint.
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/J/JAPAN_TOJO?SITE=WHIZ&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	Zanesville - whiznews.com - Southeastern Ohio's Resource May 15, 3:17 PM EDT Tojo's granddaughter in parliament bid Tojo's granddaughter in parliament bid Report: Japan teen beheads mother Japan votes to extend Iraq mission Boy found in Japan unwanted drop box Japan royals ponder walks, invisibility Buy AP Photo Reprints TOKYO (AP) -- The granddaughter of wartime Prime Minister Hideki Tojo, who was executed for crimes against humanity, said Tuesday she will run for a parliamentary seat in July to "restore the honor" of those who gave their lives for Japan. Yuko Tojo, 67, told The Associated Press she will run as an independent from the Tokyo constituency for the legislature's upper house. "I want to change Japan. I want Japanese children to be able to take pride in their country again," Tojo said. In a separate statement, Tojo called for a national debate on punitive postwar treaties imposed on Japan "to show appreciation and respect toward for those who gave their lives for Japan, and to restore their honor." Gen. Tojo, prime minister from 1941 to 1944, unleashed a savage war of aggression on Japan's neighbors and has been widely remembered both at home and abroad as Asia's answer to Adolf Hitler. Tojo, who is enshrined with Japan's 2.5 million war dead at Tokyo's Yasukuni Shrine, also ordered the surprise attack on Pearl Harbor that plunged the United States into World War II. Yasukuni is vilified by critics as symbolizing the country's militaristic past because it honors Class-A criminals such as Tojo. He was sentenced to death at the Tokyo war trials and executed in 1948. Yuko Tojo has defended her grandfather's legacy, contending in a 1992 memoir that he had no choice but to take Japan to war after the country's survival was threatened by a U.S. oil embargo. The book became the basis for a movie in 1998, "Pride," which broke old taboos by portraying Gen. Tojo as the victim of vindictive Allied judges during the Tokyo tribunals. "Pride" became one of the top-grossing domestic films that year, demonstrating the growing popularity of revisionist views in Japan. Other nationalistic films have followed. Tojo's candidacy comes as the Japanese government takes steps toward a vote on revising its U.S.-drafted pacifist Constitution, which prohibits the use of war in settling international disputes. She has also rejected suggestions that Yasukuni stop honoring executed war criminals to allay views in China and South Korea that Japan has not fully atoned for its wartime atrocities there. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. Copyright &copy 1998-2006 WHIZNEWS.COM All rights reserved EEO Public File Report
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/J/JAPAN_TOJO?SITE=WHIZ&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	Zanesville - whiznews.com - Southeastern Ohio's Resource May 15, 3:17 PM EDT Tojo's granddaughter in parliament bid Tojo's granddaughter in parliament bid Report: Japan teen beheads mother Japan votes to extend Iraq mission Boy found in Japan unwanted drop box Japan royals ponder walks, invisibility Buy AP Photo Reprints TOKYO (AP) -- The granddaughter of wartime Prime Minister Hideki Tojo, who was executed for crimes against humanity, said Tuesday she will run for a parliamentary seat in July to "restore the honor" of those who gave their lives for Japan. Yuko Tojo, 67, told The Associated Press she will run as an independent from the Tokyo constituency for the legislature's upper house. "I want to change Japan. I want Japanese children to be able to take pride in their country again," Tojo said. In a separate statement, Tojo called for a national debate on punitive postwar treaties imposed on Japan "to show appreciation and respect toward for those who gave their lives for Japan, and to restore their honor." Gen. Tojo, prime minister from 1941 to 1944, unleashed a savage war of aggression on Japan's neighbors and has been widely remembered both at home and abroad as Asia's answer to Adolf Hitler. Tojo, who is enshrined with Japan's 2.5 million war dead at Tokyo's Yasukuni Shrine, also ordered the surprise attack on Pearl Harbor that plunged the United States into World War II. Yasukuni is vilified by critics as symbolizing the country's militaristic past because it honors Class-A criminals such as Tojo. He was sentenced to death at the Tokyo war trials and executed in 1948. Yuko Tojo has defended her grandfather's legacy, contending in a 1992 memoir that he had no choice but to take Japan to war after the country's survival was threatened by a U.S. oil embargo. The book became the basis for a movie in 1998, "Pride," which broke old taboos by portraying Gen. Tojo as the victim of vindictive Allied judges during the Tokyo tribunals. "Pride" became one of the top-grossing domestic films that year, demonstrating the growing popularity of revisionist views in Japan. Other nationalistic films have followed. Tojo's candidacy comes as the Japanese government takes steps toward a vote on revising its U.S.-drafted pacifist Constitution, which prohibits the use of war in settling international disputes. She has also rejected suggestions that Yasukuni stop honoring executed war criminals to allay views in China and South Korea that Japan has not fully atoned for its wartime atrocities there. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. Copyright &copy 1998-2006 WHIZNEWS.COM All rights reserved EEO Public File Report
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/C/CHIRACS_FAREWELL?SITE=WHIZ&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	Zanesville - whiznews.com - Southeastern Ohio's Resource May 15, 3:59 PM EDT Chirac says goodbye to French electorate Buy AP Photo Reprints PARIS (AP) -- Jacques Chirac, in his final presidential appeal to the French, urged his compatriots Tuesday to stay united and proud of the nation he led for 12 years despite uncertainty about France's place in today's world. "Always stay united," Chirac said in a brief televised address Tuesday night, before the debonair 74-year-old turns over the presidency to fellow conservative Nicolas Sarkozy on Wednesday. "A nation is a family. This link that unites us is our most precious asset," he said, sitting in front of French and European Union flags. He said France should be a nation of equal opportunity and an engine of European integration. Both appeals recalled low points of his tenure: the 2005 riots that laid bare deep-rooted discrimination against France's immigrants, and the French rejection of the EU constitution that Chirac had championed. He expressed "pride in a duty fulfilled" but did not list any accomplishments, and his statement lacked the eloquence and passion that have marked many of his speeches. "I know that the new president, Nicolas Sarkozy, will endeavor to lead our nation forward on the paths of the future," Chirac said of his protege-turned-rival, who was elected May 6 after promising an end to the economic stagnation and social tensions that marred Chirac's tenure. Chirac often shone brighter on the global stage than at home, but he made no reference in his parting speech to his dream of a "multi-polar world" less dominated by the United States, or of his steadfast opposition to the U.S.-led invasion of Iraq in 2003, a defining moment of his presidency. Chirac said he would turn his post-presidential attention to "dialogue among cultures and sustainable development." He is expected to create a foundation to capitalize on his international reputation, similar to that of former President Clinton. Aides say the Chirac foundation will focus particularly on Africa. Chirac sought to bring environmental issues into the spotlight, though critics say he had more words than action on the subject. He often stressed cultural understanding over exporting Western values - a stance that Sarkozy distanced himself from in an election-night speech in which he said France would stand beside those oppressed by fundamentalism. France's relations with Africa are likely to be less close and more pragmatic with the departure of Chirac, who nurtured ties with former colonies in Africa - and was criticized for cozying up to authoritarian African leaders. Sarkozy has few of those connections. Stepping down from the presidency, Chirac will be closing out some four decades in politics. Chirac founded the neo-Gaullist Rally for the Republic party, today transformed into the Union for a Popular Movement that Sarkozy headed before being elected president. Chirac built the mainstream right into a powerful political machine. His ambitious search for funds for his party is at the heart of corruption allegations that implicated him but never touched him while he had presidential immunity. He could be summoned for questioning in investigations into illegal party financing as soon as next month, judicial officials say. A former prime minister and longtime ally, Alain Juppe, was questioned Tuesday in a probe linked to Chirac's time as mayor of Paris from 1977-1995. Chirac said his goodbye to Europe on a visit to Berlin on May 3 - and Sarkozy makes his first foreign trip to Berlin immediately after his inauguration. Chirac famously misjudged French voters by staging a referendum on the European constitution. The French and Dutch rejections of the treaty have stalled European integration efforts since; Sarkozy seems keen to revive them with a more streamlined document. After leaving the Elysee Palace, Chirac and his wife Bernadette were to settle temporarily into a deluxe apartment on Paris' Left Bank on loan from the family of slain former Lebanese Prime Minister Rafik Hariri. He is to receive about $8,120 a month in retirement pay as a former president, in addition to retirement pay as a former Paris mayor and for other senior posts he has held. He is also entitled to join the Constitutional Council, one of the highest bodies in the land. The only other president to issue a televised farewell to the nation was Valery Giscard d'Estaing, on May 19, 1981, before turning over power to Socialist President Francois Mitterrand. With a much remembered final "au revoir," Giscard stood, made an exit and left an empty chair in the spotlight. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. Copyright &copy 1998-2006 WHIZNEWS.COM All rights reserved EEO Public File Report
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/C/CHIRACS_FAREWELL?SITE=WHIZ&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	Zanesville - whiznews.com - Southeastern Ohio's Resource May 15, 3:59 PM EDT Chirac says goodbye to French electorate Buy AP Photo Reprints PARIS (AP) -- Jacques Chirac, in his final presidential appeal to the French, urged his compatriots Tuesday to stay united and proud of the nation he led for 12 years despite uncertainty about France's place in today's world. "Always stay united," Chirac said in a brief televised address Tuesday night, before the debonair 74-year-old turns over the presidency to fellow conservative Nicolas Sarkozy on Wednesday. "A nation is a family. This link that unites us is our most precious asset," he said, sitting in front of French and European Union flags. He said France should be a nation of equal opportunity and an engine of European integration. Both appeals recalled low points of his tenure: the 2005 riots that laid bare deep-rooted discrimination against France's immigrants, and the French rejection of the EU constitution that Chirac had championed. He expressed "pride in a duty fulfilled" but did not list any accomplishments, and his statement lacked the eloquence and passion that have marked many of his speeches. "I know that the new president, Nicolas Sarkozy, will endeavor to lead our nation forward on the paths of the future," Chirac said of his protege-turned-rival, who was elected May 6 after promising an end to the economic stagnation and social tensions that marred Chirac's tenure. Chirac often shone brighter on the global stage than at home, but he made no reference in his parting speech to his dream of a "multi-polar world" less dominated by the United States, or of his steadfast opposition to the U.S.-led invasion of Iraq in 2003, a defining moment of his presidency. Chirac said he would turn his post-presidential attention to "dialogue among cultures and sustainable development." He is expected to create a foundation to capitalize on his international reputation, similar to that of former President Clinton. Aides say the Chirac foundation will focus particularly on Africa. Chirac sought to bring environmental issues into the spotlight, though critics say he had more words than action on the subject. He often stressed cultural understanding over exporting Western values - a stance that Sarkozy distanced himself from in an election-night speech in which he said France would stand beside those oppressed by fundamentalism. France's relations with Africa are likely to be less close and more pragmatic with the departure of Chirac, who nurtured ties with former colonies in Africa - and was criticized for cozying up to authoritarian African leaders. Sarkozy has few of those connections. Stepping down from the presidency, Chirac will be closing out some four decades in politics. Chirac founded the neo-Gaullist Rally for the Republic party, today transformed into the Union for a Popular Movement that Sarkozy headed before being elected president. Chirac built the mainstream right into a powerful political machine. His ambitious search for funds for his party is at the heart of corruption allegations that implicated him but never touched him while he had presidential immunity. He could be summoned for questioning in investigations into illegal party financing as soon as next month, judicial officials say. A former prime minister and longtime ally, Alain Juppe, was questioned Tuesday in a probe linked to Chirac's time as mayor of Paris from 1977-1995. Chirac said his goodbye to Europe on a visit to Berlin on May 3 - and Sarkozy makes his first foreign trip to Berlin immediately after his inauguration. Chirac famously misjudged French voters by staging a referendum on the European constitution. The French and Dutch rejections of the treaty have stalled European integration efforts since; Sarkozy seems keen to revive them with a more streamlined document. After leaving the Elysee Palace, Chirac and his wife Bernadette were to settle temporarily into a deluxe apartment on Paris' Left Bank on loan from the family of slain former Lebanese Prime Minister Rafik Hariri. He is to receive about $8,120 a month in retirement pay as a former president, in addition to retirement pay as a former Paris mayor and for other senior posts he has held. He is also entitled to join the Constitutional Council, one of the highest bodies in the land. The only other president to issue a televised farewell to the nation was Valery Giscard d'Estaing, on May 19, 1981, before turning over power to Socialist President Francois Mitterrand. With a much remembered final "au revoir," Giscard stood, made an exit and left an empty chair in the spotlight. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. Copyright &copy 1998-2006 WHIZNEWS.COM All rights reserved EEO Public File Report
http://hosted.ap.org/	News from The Associated Press
http://hosted.ap.org/	News from The Associated Press
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/I/IRAN_NUCLEAR?SITE=WHIZ&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	Zanesville - whiznews.com - Southeastern Ohio's Resource May 15, 3:41 PM EDT Iran nuclear progress 'slow but steady' By WILLIAM J. KOLE Iran nuclear progress 'slow but steady' Iranians want to talk to U.S. Congress Iran: Academic held for security crimes Iranian leader works to end US-Gulf ties 2 banned papers publish again in Iran Ahmadinejad's Letter to President Bush Buy AP Photo Reprints VIENNA, Austria (AP) -- Iran is making "slow but steady" progress in its efforts to enrich uranium, but probably still wouldn't have enough fuel for a single nuclear warhead until 2009 at the earliest, a former U.N. inspector said Tuesday. David Albright, who now heads the Washington-based Institute for Science and International Security, said Iran still must overcome some tricky obstacles if it intends to enrich uranium to weapons grade - and it may take tougher sanctions to stop it. "Iran's been making slow but steady progress," he told The Associated Press in a telephone interview. "We think Iran has been moving faster than (the U.S. government) has anticipated." Tehran could have 3,000 centrifuges installed by the end of June at its main nuclear facility at Natanz, although it would need several months more to learn how to operate them, Albright said. The Vienna-based International Atomic Energy Agency is expected to submit its latest report on Iran's nuclear program to the U.N. Security Council by early next week. Gregory L. Schulte, the chief U.S. envoy to the IAEA, said Tuesday that Washington "would welcome a report verifying that Iran has suspended its enrichment-related activities" and give inspectors broader access. "Unfortunately, I don't foresee such a report," Schulte said in a speech at the University of Vienna, calling Iran "a blatant case of noncompliance" with the Nuclear Non-proliferation Treaty. "Iran continues to defy Security Council demands and shows no sign of planning to comply," he said. "Iran's leadership is actively and defiantly pursuing the technology, material and know-how to produce nuclear weapons." Iran insists its nuclear program is purely peaceful and geared solely toward producing electricity. The U.S. contends it is covertly trying to build nuclear weapons. Agency inspectors who visited the complex on short notice Sunday found evidence to suggest that Iran may have overcome technological challenges and has started enriching uranium on a significantly wider scale, The New York Times reported Tuesday. Agency chief Mohamed ElBaradei is now arguing that diplomatic efforts to get Iran to suspend enrichment may no longer make sense if the Islamic republic now has the technical ability to enrich on a large scale, a diplomat familiar with the inspection process told the AP. "What he's saying is that we've now crossed a line," said the diplomat, speaking on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to speak with reporters. "If the horse has left the barn, there's not much sense in focusing on the barn - you have to deal with the horse," the diplomat said. But Schulte said the international community would insist on suspension to contain what he called "activities that really only make sense in the context of a military program." Albright cautioned against concluding that Iran is on the verge of producing an atomic weapon, saying 2009 is the "worst-case scenario" for it to have developed a single warhead. "Our own assessment has been that they've learned to operate a centrifuge over the last six months. What they haven't done is shown that they know how to operate 1,000 centrifuges," he said. Centrifuges, which spin at high speeds to make nuclear fuel, are tricky to operate and are subject to breakdown, Albright added, contending Iran "isn't out of the woods yet." Iran's top nuclear negotiator, Ali Larijani, has agreed to meet European Union foreign policy chief Javier Solana on May 31 to discuss the deadlock over a U.N. demand that Tehran freeze uranium enrichment, Iran's state news agency reported Tuesday. Abandoning the drive to persuade Tehran to suspend its enrichment activities doesn't make sense, said Albright, who contends the U.S. and its allies would lose their "moral high ground" if they ease up. "Iran is steadily moving toward nuclear weapons capability, and the negotiations are not working, and we may have to settle into an extended crisis where we need to sanction Iran and further isolate them," he said. "But this doesn't mean war. ... You have to resist the urge to strike out militarily, which could even be worse than Iran gaining nuclear weaponry," he said. International Atomic Energy Agency, &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. Copyright &copy 1998-2006 WHIZNEWS.COM All rights reserved EEO Public File Report
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/I/IRAN_NUCLEAR?SITE=WHIZ&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	Zanesville - whiznews.com - Southeastern Ohio's Resource May 15, 3:41 PM EDT Iran nuclear progress 'slow but steady' By WILLIAM J. KOLE Iran nuclear progress 'slow but steady' Iranians want to talk to U.S. Congress Iran: Academic held for security crimes Iranian leader works to end US-Gulf ties 2 banned papers publish again in Iran Ahmadinejad's Letter to President Bush Buy AP Photo Reprints VIENNA, Austria (AP) -- Iran is making "slow but steady" progress in its efforts to enrich uranium, but probably still wouldn't have enough fuel for a single nuclear warhead until 2009 at the earliest, a former U.N. inspector said Tuesday. David Albright, who now heads the Washington-based Institute for Science and International Security, said Iran still must overcome some tricky obstacles if it intends to enrich uranium to weapons grade - and it may take tougher sanctions to stop it. "Iran's been making slow but steady progress," he told The Associated Press in a telephone interview. "We think Iran has been moving faster than (the U.S. government) has anticipated." Tehran could have 3,000 centrifuges installed by the end of June at its main nuclear facility at Natanz, although it would need several months more to learn how to operate them, Albright said. The Vienna-based International Atomic Energy Agency is expected to submit its latest report on Iran's nuclear program to the U.N. Security Council by early next week. Gregory L. Schulte, the chief U.S. envoy to the IAEA, said Tuesday that Washington "would welcome a report verifying that Iran has suspended its enrichment-related activities" and give inspectors broader access. "Unfortunately, I don't foresee such a report," Schulte said in a speech at the University of Vienna, calling Iran "a blatant case of noncompliance" with the Nuclear Non-proliferation Treaty. "Iran continues to defy Security Council demands and shows no sign of planning to comply," he said. "Iran's leadership is actively and defiantly pursuing the technology, material and know-how to produce nuclear weapons." Iran insists its nuclear program is purely peaceful and geared solely toward producing electricity. The U.S. contends it is covertly trying to build nuclear weapons. Agency inspectors who visited the complex on short notice Sunday found evidence to suggest that Iran may have overcome technological challenges and has started enriching uranium on a significantly wider scale, The New York Times reported Tuesday. Agency chief Mohamed ElBaradei is now arguing that diplomatic efforts to get Iran to suspend enrichment may no longer make sense if the Islamic republic now has the technical ability to enrich on a large scale, a diplomat familiar with the inspection process told the AP. "What he's saying is that we've now crossed a line," said the diplomat, speaking on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to speak with reporters. "If the horse has left the barn, there's not much sense in focusing on the barn - you have to deal with the horse," the diplomat said. But Schulte said the international community would insist on suspension to contain what he called "activities that really only make sense in the context of a military program." Albright cautioned against concluding that Iran is on the verge of producing an atomic weapon, saying 2009 is the "worst-case scenario" for it to have developed a single warhead. "Our own assessment has been that they've learned to operate a centrifuge over the last six months. What they haven't done is shown that they know how to operate 1,000 centrifuges," he said. Centrifuges, which spin at high speeds to make nuclear fuel, are tricky to operate and are subject to breakdown, Albright added, contending Iran "isn't out of the woods yet." Iran's top nuclear negotiator, Ali Larijani, has agreed to meet European Union foreign policy chief Javier Solana on May 31 to discuss the deadlock over a U.N. demand that Tehran freeze uranium enrichment, Iran's state news agency reported Tuesday. Abandoning the drive to persuade Tehran to suspend its enrichment activities doesn't make sense, said Albright, who contends the U.S. and its allies would lose their "moral high ground" if they ease up. "Iran is steadily moving toward nuclear weapons capability, and the negotiations are not working, and we may have to settle into an extended crisis where we need to sanction Iran and further isolate them," he said. "But this doesn't mean war. ... You have to resist the urge to strike out militarily, which could even be worse than Iran gaining nuclear weaponry," he said. International Atomic Energy Agency, &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. Copyright &copy 1998-2006 WHIZNEWS.COM All rights reserved EEO Public File Report
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/I/IRAQ?SITE=WHIZ&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	Zanesville - whiznews.com - Southeastern Ohio's Resource May 15, 3:09 PM EDT U.S. detains 11 Iraqis in search for GIs The Toll: Coalition Casualties Since March 2003 U.S. Allows Mahdi Army a Security Role Iraqis Struggle in Police Training Four Years: AP Journalists Look Back Iraq and Vietnam: Contrasting Protests Land Mines From Iran-Iraq War Sold on Black Market Iraqi Outpost Tests War Strategy Iraq's Toll Felt Across U.S. Soldier Diagnosed Before Attack end soldier diagnosis --> end interactive icon section --> How MySpace is Changing the Face of War Latest photos from Iraq Clinton, Obama to back Iraq fund cutoff U.S. seeks gains in Shiite militia rifts U.S. detains 11 Iraqis in search for GIs No photos allowed after Iraqi blasts Key developments in Iraq on Tuesday Executive Summary: DOD Inspector General on Pre-Iraq War Intelligence Activities(2/9/2007) Unclassified National Intelligence Estimate Summary on Iraq (2/2/2007) Inspector General Report on Iraq Reconstruction (1/31/2007) Buy AP Photo Reprints BAGHDAD (AP) -- U.S. troops have questioned hundreds of people and detained 11 in the search for three American soldiers feared captured by al-Qaida during a deadly weekend ambush south of Baghdad, the military said Tuesday. Four American soldiers and an Iraqi were killed in the weekend ambush and their vehicles burned. Two Defense Department officials said they could not yet identify one of the dead, hampering the military's ability to determine who was missing. The officials spoke on condition of anonymity because the families had not been notified. "We have conducted more than 450 tactical interviews and detained 11 individuals" as of Monday night, U.S. military spokesman Lt. Col. Christopher Garver said. Two of the dead soldiers, including a 19-year-old whose stepfather is also serving in Iraq, were identified by their families. For a fourth day, jets, helicopters and unmanned surveillance aircraft crisscrossed the skies over the sparsely populated farm area near Mahmoudiya, 20 miles south of Baghdad to search for the missing soldiers. U.S. and Iraqi troops - backed by dog teams - searched vehicles and pedestrians. Other teams peered into crawl spaces and probed for possible secret chambers in homes. Among the dead was Sgt. 1st Class James David Connell Jr., 40, of Lake City, Tenn., whose family learned Saturday he had been killed. The soldier had just recovered from a shrapnel wound to the leg and had visited his family on leave earlier this month. "I'm proud of my dad, because he didn't really fight for himself, he fought for the country," Connell's teenage daughter, Courtney, told Knoxville's WATE-TV. Also killed was 19-year-old Pfc. Daniel Courneya, of Vermontville, Mich. In Michigan, students at Maple Valley High School created a memorial for Courneya, who graduated in 2005 and was well-known in the small community southwest of Lansing. He was a member of the school's track and soccer teams and played clarinet in the band. "It's a tribute of photos, posters, plaques and a picture of him in his uniform," school official Kelly Zank told The Associated Press on Tuesday. Courneya's mother, Wendy Thompson, said her husband, Army Spc. David Thompson, was in Iraq and returning home after learning of his stepson's death. The dead and missing are from the 10th Mount Division's 2nd Brigade Combat Team, Company D, 4th Battalion, 31st Infantry Regiment, nicknamed the "Polar Bears" and based at Fort Drum in New York. On Monday, the Islamic State of Iraq - an al-Qaida front group that claims it has the soldiers - warned the U.S. to halt its search by about 4,000 troops, and the Pentagon acknowledged for the first time that it believes the soldiers are in terrorist hands. Last June, al-Qaida claimed responsibility for the deaths of two U.S. soldiers whose mutilated bodies were later found in the same area. The three were last seen before a pre-dawn ambush Saturday that destroyed several Humvees in a U.S. convoy and killed four Americans and an Iraqi soldier traveling with them. Al-Qaida has been active for years in the string of towns and villages south of the capital, a mostly Sunni region known as the "triangle of death" because of frequent attacks on U.S. and Iraqi forces as well as Shiite civilians traveling to shrine cities in the south. During the search Monday, U.S. and Iraqi forces exchanged fire with gunmen near the town of Youssifiyah, killing two and injuring four, an Iraqi army officer said. On Tuesday, an Iraqi interpreter working with the U.S. soldiers said the coalition's search was focusing on rural areas outside Mahmoudiya and that life was proceeding as normal in the city. But he also said Iraqi civilians being stopped for questioning by U.S. forces appeared nervous that they could be attacked by insurgents later, if they were seen cooperating with the coalition. The interpreter spoke on condition of anonymity out of concern for his own security. The area around Mahmoudiya has long been especially volatile because Saddam Hussein recruited members of Sunni tribes there into his elite Republican Guard and intelligence services. Many of them were believed to have joined the insurgency after Saddam's regime collapsed in the 2003 U.S.-led invasion. U.S. officers also say extremists have fled Baghdad for surrounding areas to escape the three-month Baghdad security crackdown. Elsewhere, attacks using bombs or mortars killed a total of 10 people in two markets in Baghdad, and dozens of suspected insurgents attacked a village north of the capital, killing five civilians and wounding 14, Iraqi authorities said. A mortar or rocket slammed into the U.S.-controlled Green Zone, wounding five American Embassy contractors, a spokesman said. U.S. Embassy spokesman Lou Fintor said there were no deaths and property damage was minimal. He said the contractors' nationalities had "not yet been confirmed." Fintor said the embassy was "open and functioning normally." Under a new government policy limiting media coverage of such tragedies, Iraqi police prevented news photographers and cameramen from filming the scene. The order, announced over the weekend, is aimed at preventing journalists from inadvertently tampering with evidence, protecting the privacy of the wounded and keeping insurgents and militias from keeping track of their success rate. Associated Press writer Pauline Jelinek in Washington contributed to this report. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. Copyright &copy 1998-2006 WHIZNEWS.COM All rights reserved EEO Public File Report
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/I/IRAQ?SITE=WHIZ&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	Zanesville - whiznews.com - Southeastern Ohio's Resource May 15, 3:09 PM EDT U.S. detains 11 Iraqis in search for GIs The Toll: Coalition Casualties Since March 2003 U.S. Allows Mahdi Army a Security Role Iraqis Struggle in Police Training Four Years: AP Journalists Look Back Iraq and Vietnam: Contrasting Protests Land Mines From Iran-Iraq War Sold on Black Market Iraqi Outpost Tests War Strategy Iraq's Toll Felt Across U.S. Soldier Diagnosed Before Attack end soldier diagnosis --> end interactive icon section --> How MySpace is Changing the Face of War Latest photos from Iraq Clinton, Obama to back Iraq fund cutoff U.S. seeks gains in Shiite militia rifts U.S. detains 11 Iraqis in search for GIs No photos allowed after Iraqi blasts Key developments in Iraq on Tuesday Executive Summary: DOD Inspector General on Pre-Iraq War Intelligence Activities(2/9/2007) Unclassified National Intelligence Estimate Summary on Iraq (2/2/2007) Inspector General Report on Iraq Reconstruction (1/31/2007) Buy AP Photo Reprints BAGHDAD (AP) -- U.S. troops have questioned hundreds of people and detained 11 in the search for three American soldiers feared captured by al-Qaida during a deadly weekend ambush south of Baghdad, the military said Tuesday. Four American soldiers and an Iraqi were killed in the weekend ambush and their vehicles burned. Two Defense Department officials said they could not yet identify one of the dead, hampering the military's ability to determine who was missing. The officials spoke on condition of anonymity because the families had not been notified. "We have conducted more than 450 tactical interviews and detained 11 individuals" as of Monday night, U.S. military spokesman Lt. Col. Christopher Garver said. Two of the dead soldiers, including a 19-year-old whose stepfather is also serving in Iraq, were identified by their families. For a fourth day, jets, helicopters and unmanned surveillance aircraft crisscrossed the skies over the sparsely populated farm area near Mahmoudiya, 20 miles south of Baghdad to search for the missing soldiers. U.S. and Iraqi troops - backed by dog teams - searched vehicles and pedestrians. Other teams peered into crawl spaces and probed for possible secret chambers in homes. Among the dead was Sgt. 1st Class James David Connell Jr., 40, of Lake City, Tenn., whose family learned Saturday he had been killed. The soldier had just recovered from a shrapnel wound to the leg and had visited his family on leave earlier this month. "I'm proud of my dad, because he didn't really fight for himself, he fought for the country," Connell's teenage daughter, Courtney, told Knoxville's WATE-TV. Also killed was 19-year-old Pfc. Daniel Courneya, of Vermontville, Mich. In Michigan, students at Maple Valley High School created a memorial for Courneya, who graduated in 2005 and was well-known in the small community southwest of Lansing. He was a member of the school's track and soccer teams and played clarinet in the band. "It's a tribute of photos, posters, plaques and a picture of him in his uniform," school official Kelly Zank told The Associated Press on Tuesday. Courneya's mother, Wendy Thompson, said her husband, Army Spc. David Thompson, was in Iraq and returning home after learning of his stepson's death. The dead and missing are from the 10th Mount Division's 2nd Brigade Combat Team, Company D, 4th Battalion, 31st Infantry Regiment, nicknamed the "Polar Bears" and based at Fort Drum in New York. On Monday, the Islamic State of Iraq - an al-Qaida front group that claims it has the soldiers - warned the U.S. to halt its search by about 4,000 troops, and the Pentagon acknowledged for the first time that it believes the soldiers are in terrorist hands. Last June, al-Qaida claimed responsibility for the deaths of two U.S. soldiers whose mutilated bodies were later found in the same area. The three were last seen before a pre-dawn ambush Saturday that destroyed several Humvees in a U.S. convoy and killed four Americans and an Iraqi soldier traveling with them. Al-Qaida has been active for years in the string of towns and villages south of the capital, a mostly Sunni region known as the "triangle of death" because of frequent attacks on U.S. and Iraqi forces as well as Shiite civilians traveling to shrine cities in the south. During the search Monday, U.S. and Iraqi forces exchanged fire with gunmen near the town of Youssifiyah, killing two and injuring four, an Iraqi army officer said. On Tuesday, an Iraqi interpreter working with the U.S. soldiers said the coalition's search was focusing on rural areas outside Mahmoudiya and that life was proceeding as normal in the city. But he also said Iraqi civilians being stopped for questioning by U.S. forces appeared nervous that they could be attacked by insurgents later, if they were seen cooperating with the coalition. The interpreter spoke on condition of anonymity out of concern for his own security. The area around Mahmoudiya has long been especially volatile because Saddam Hussein recruited members of Sunni tribes there into his elite Republican Guard and intelligence services. Many of them were believed to have joined the insurgency after Saddam's regime collapsed in the 2003 U.S.-led invasion. U.S. officers also say extremists have fled Baghdad for surrounding areas to escape the three-month Baghdad security crackdown. Elsewhere, attacks using bombs or mortars killed a total of 10 people in two markets in Baghdad, and dozens of suspected insurgents attacked a village north of the capital, killing five civilians and wounding 14, Iraqi authorities said. A mortar or rocket slammed into the U.S.-controlled Green Zone, wounding five American Embassy contractors, a spokesman said. U.S. Embassy spokesman Lou Fintor said there were no deaths and property damage was minimal. He said the contractors' nationalities had "not yet been confirmed." Fintor said the embassy was "open and functioning normally." Under a new government policy limiting media coverage of such tragedies, Iraqi police prevented news photographers and cameramen from filming the scene. The order, announced over the weekend, is aimed at preventing journalists from inadvertently tampering with evidence, protecting the privacy of the wounded and keeping insurgents and militias from keeping track of their success rate. Associated Press writer Pauline Jelinek in Washington contributed to this report. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. Copyright &copy 1998-2006 WHIZNEWS.COM All rights reserved EEO Public File Report
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/K/KOREAS_NUCLEAR?SITE=WHIZ&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	Zanesville - whiznews.com - Southeastern Ohio's Resource May 15, 3:05 PM EDT North Korea: Funds dispute nearly solved Buy AP Photo Reprints North Korea's Missile Arsenal The Last Stalinist State Iran seeks improved ties with N. Korea Chances slim for return of USS Pueblo N. Korea wants U.S. bank to handle funds SEOUL, South Korea (AP) -- North Korea said Tuesday that steps were being taken to resolve a financial dispute that has blocked international efforts to halt its production of nuclear weapons in an indication of possible progress after weeks of delay. North Korea has refused to start implementing a February agreement to shut down its nuclear reactor - missing a deadline that passed a month ago - until it receives funds from a bank in the Chinese territory of Macau that had been frozen after the bank was blacklisted by the United States in 2005. North Korea's Foreign Ministry said it wanted to be able to "freely transfer funds." "For this, works are under way so that funds at Macau's Banco Delta Asia can be transferred to our bank accounts at a third country," the ministry said in a statement carried by the official Korean Central News Agency. The transfer has been held up because other banks have been reluctant to touch the $25 million in accounts that were freed with the blessing of the United States. Washington has said the money was tied to alleged money laundering and counterfeiting by North Korea. Authorities say North Korea could withdraw the sum in cash, but it apparently wants to retrieve it through a bank wire transfer to prove the funds are now clean. North Korea made the release of the money its main condition for halting its nuclear program, boycotting international arms negotiations for more than a year during which it conducted a weapons test in October. On Tuesday, North Korea rebutted allegations it said were made in U.S. media that it had been using the funds dispute as a delaying tactic, and it repeated its commitment to the disarmament deal. "Once the fund transfer is realized we are willing to immediately take steps to shut down our nuclear facility as agreed," the ministry said, adding it would invite U.N. nuclear inspectors and discuss the matter with the U.S. "Once the Feb. 13 agreement gets implemented, our commitment will be clearly shown through our actions," the ministry said. Earlier Tuesday, the U.S. ambassador to South Korea called on the North to act on its pledge. "It's time for North Korea to live up to its commitments," Alexander Vershbow told a security forum in Seoul. "The North has a lot to gain by ending its nuclear programs and getting rid of nuclear weapons." Rewards include "economic assistance, normalized relations with the United States and a permanent peace regime for the Korean peninsula. ... In short, a fundamental transformation of the (North's) relations with the rest of the world and an end to its pariah status," he said. The February deal calls for closing the reactor and disabling all of North Korea's nuclear facilities. Vershbow said Washington believes the action can be done in a "few months" and it hopes to achieve a complete denuclearization of North Korea before President Bush leaves office in January 2009. In Vienna, Gregory L. Schulte, the chief U.S. envoy to the International Atomic Energy Agency, said inspectors "are standing by to return to North Korea on short notice." The IAEA itself had no comment. Associated Press reporters Jae-soon Chang and Bo-mi Lim contributed to this report. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. Copyright &copy 1998-2006 WHIZNEWS.COM All rights reserved EEO Public File Report
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/K/KOREAS_NUCLEAR?SITE=WHIZ&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	Zanesville - whiznews.com - Southeastern Ohio's Resource May 15, 3:05 PM EDT North Korea: Funds dispute nearly solved Buy AP Photo Reprints North Korea's Missile Arsenal The Last Stalinist State Iran seeks improved ties with N. Korea Chances slim for return of USS Pueblo N. Korea wants U.S. bank to handle funds SEOUL, South Korea (AP) -- North Korea said Tuesday that steps were being taken to resolve a financial dispute that has blocked international efforts to halt its production of nuclear weapons in an indication of possible progress after weeks of delay. North Korea has refused to start implementing a February agreement to shut down its nuclear reactor - missing a deadline that passed a month ago - until it receives funds from a bank in the Chinese territory of Macau that had been frozen after the bank was blacklisted by the United States in 2005. North Korea's Foreign Ministry said it wanted to be able to "freely transfer funds." "For this, works are under way so that funds at Macau's Banco Delta Asia can be transferred to our bank accounts at a third country," the ministry said in a statement carried by the official Korean Central News Agency. The transfer has been held up because other banks have been reluctant to touch the $25 million in accounts that were freed with the blessing of the United States. Washington has said the money was tied to alleged money laundering and counterfeiting by North Korea. Authorities say North Korea could withdraw the sum in cash, but it apparently wants to retrieve it through a bank wire transfer to prove the funds are now clean. North Korea made the release of the money its main condition for halting its nuclear program, boycotting international arms negotiations for more than a year during which it conducted a weapons test in October. On Tuesday, North Korea rebutted allegations it said were made in U.S. media that it had been using the funds dispute as a delaying tactic, and it repeated its commitment to the disarmament deal. "Once the fund transfer is realized we are willing to immediately take steps to shut down our nuclear facility as agreed," the ministry said, adding it would invite U.N. nuclear inspectors and discuss the matter with the U.S. "Once the Feb. 13 agreement gets implemented, our commitment will be clearly shown through our actions," the ministry said. Earlier Tuesday, the U.S. ambassador to South Korea called on the North to act on its pledge. "It's time for North Korea to live up to its commitments," Alexander Vershbow told a security forum in Seoul. "The North has a lot to gain by ending its nuclear programs and getting rid of nuclear weapons." Rewards include "economic assistance, normalized relations with the United States and a permanent peace regime for the Korean peninsula. ... In short, a fundamental transformation of the (North's) relations with the rest of the world and an end to its pariah status," he said. The February deal calls for closing the reactor and disabling all of North Korea's nuclear facilities. Vershbow said Washington believes the action can be done in a "few months" and it hopes to achieve a complete denuclearization of North Korea before President Bush leaves office in January 2009. In Vienna, Gregory L. Schulte, the chief U.S. envoy to the International Atomic Energy Agency, said inspectors "are standing by to return to North Korea on short notice." The IAEA itself had no comment. Associated Press reporters Jae-soon Chang and Bo-mi Lim contributed to this report. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. Copyright &copy 1998-2006 WHIZNEWS.COM All rights reserved EEO Public File Report
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/N/NAZI_ARCHIVE?SITE=WHIZ&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	Zanesville - whiznews.com - Southeastern Ohio's Resource May 15, 4:14 PM EDT Sealed Nazi archives to be released Sealed Nazi archives to be released Diplomats agree to transfer Nazi archive Holocaust survivor refuses to meet son Copyright &copy 1998-2006 WHIZNEWS.COM All rights reserved EEO Public File Report
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/N/NAZI_ARCHIVE?SITE=WHIZ&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	Zanesville - whiznews.com - Southeastern Ohio's Resource May 15, 4:14 PM EDT Sealed Nazi archives to be released Sealed Nazi archives to be released Diplomats agree to transfer Nazi archive Holocaust survivor refuses to meet son Copyright &copy 1998-2006 WHIZNEWS.COM All rights reserved EEO Public File Report
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/P/PORTUGAL_MISSING_GIRL?SITE=WHIZ&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	Zanesville - whiznews.com - Southeastern Ohio's Resource May 15, 4:28 PM EDT Suspect freed in girl's disappearance Man Investigated in Missing Girl Case Suspect freed in girl's disappearance Buy AP Photo Reprints LISBON, Portugal (AP) -- Portuguese police released a suspect they questioned about a missing British girl because there was not enough evidence to file charges against him, an official said Tuesday. Detectives searched five houses Monday as part of their investigation of the 33-year-old man, identified in media reports as British, and seized some of his belongings, said inspector Olegario de Sousa. Detectives also questioned two other people as part of the same inquiry into 4-year-old Madeleine McCann's disappearance in southern Portugal, he said. The girl vanished May 3 after her parents left her, and her brother and sister, both aged 2, alone while they went to a nearby restaurant within their hotel complex in Portugal's Algarve region, a popular European tourist destination. The suspect lives near the hotel where the girl disappeared, De Sousa said. He declined to give the man's name or nationality, citing Portuguese secrecy laws. The man's seized belongings are being examined for possible evidence, he said. "We hope they throw more light on the case," De Sousa said. Police placed the man under formal investigation. In Portuguese law, opening a formal investigation is a first step toward possibly bringing formal charges. The legal measure is designed to safeguard a citizen's constitutional rights. It grants the person in question access to potential evidence and allows the person to mount a legal defense. On Monday, police searched a villa where local media say the suspect lived with his British mother. They took away computers and cellular phones, Portugal's national news agency Lusa said. Police reportedly drained the villa's pool. The villa is about 100 yards from the hotel where Madeleine and her family, from central England, were staying. Portuguese media said the suspect had mingled with journalists outside the hotel in the days following the girl's disappearance and offered to act as an interpreter. He reportedly speaks English and Portuguese fluently. A British journalist told Sky News she had told local police the man was behaving suspiciously and had encouraged them to follow leads suggesting the girl had been kidnapped and taken to Spain. Last week, police called off their ground search for Madeleine, whose parents are still at the hotel. British media have said that promised contributions to a reward fund total some $5.1 million, including reported donations from Harry Potter author J.K. Rowling, tycoon Sir Richard Branson and "American Idol" judge Simon Cowell. Also, celebrities including soccer star David Beckham have made public appeals for help in finding Madeleine. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. Copyright &copy 1998-2006 WHIZNEWS.COM All rights reserved EEO Public File Report
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/P/PORTUGAL_MISSING_GIRL?SITE=WHIZ&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	Zanesville - whiznews.com - Southeastern Ohio's Resource May 15, 4:28 PM EDT Suspect freed in girl's disappearance Man Investigated in Missing Girl Case Suspect freed in girl's disappearance Buy AP Photo Reprints LISBON, Portugal (AP) -- Portuguese police released a suspect they questioned about a missing British girl because there was not enough evidence to file charges against him, an official said Tuesday. Detectives searched five houses Monday as part of their investigation of the 33-year-old man, identified in media reports as British, and seized some of his belongings, said inspector Olegario de Sousa. Detectives also questioned two other people as part of the same inquiry into 4-year-old Madeleine McCann's disappearance in southern Portugal, he said. The girl vanished May 3 after her parents left her, and her brother and sister, both aged 2, alone while they went to a nearby restaurant within their hotel complex in Portugal's Algarve region, a popular European tourist destination. The suspect lives near the hotel where the girl disappeared, De Sousa said. He declined to give the man's name or nationality, citing Portuguese secrecy laws. The man's seized belongings are being examined for possible evidence, he said. "We hope they throw more light on the case," De Sousa said. Police placed the man under formal investigation. In Portuguese law, opening a formal investigation is a first step toward possibly bringing formal charges. The legal measure is designed to safeguard a citizen's constitutional rights. It grants the person in question access to potential evidence and allows the person to mount a legal defense. On Monday, police searched a villa where local media say the suspect lived with his British mother. They took away computers and cellular phones, Portugal's national news agency Lusa said. Police reportedly drained the villa's pool. The villa is about 100 yards from the hotel where Madeleine and her family, from central England, were staying. Portuguese media said the suspect had mingled with journalists outside the hotel in the days following the girl's disappearance and offered to act as an interpreter. He reportedly speaks English and Portuguese fluently. A British journalist told Sky News she had told local police the man was behaving suspiciously and had encouraged them to follow leads suggesting the girl had been kidnapped and taken to Spain. Last week, police called off their ground search for Madeleine, whose parents are still at the hotel. British media have said that promised contributions to a reward fund total some $5.1 million, including reported donations from Harry Potter author J.K. Rowling, tycoon Sir Richard Branson and "American Idol" judge Simon Cowell. Also, celebrities including soccer star David Beckham have made public appeals for help in finding Madeleine. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. Copyright &copy 1998-2006 WHIZNEWS.COM All rights reserved EEO Public File Report
http://apdigitalnews.com/privacy.html	AP Digital | Terms of Use
http://apdigitalnews.com/privacy.html	AP Digital | Terms of Use
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/R/RICE_PUTIN?SITE=WHIZ&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	Zanesville - whiznews.com - Southeastern Ohio's Resource May 15, 4:44 PM EDT U.S., Russians, agree to ease rhetoric Buy AP Photo Reprints MOSCOW (AP) -- Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice won agreement Tuesday from Vladimir Putin to tone down Russian tough talk in an effort to improve strained ties, though neither side gave any ground on major disagreements over missile defense and Kosovo. Rice said no country could veto U.S. plans to set up a missile defense system in Europe that Russia vehemently opposes. She also said the United States still supports a U.N. plan for independence for the Serbian province of Kosovo, an idea Russia opposes. She and Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov were collegial at a news conference where they were peppered with questions about contentious issues. They stressed areas of cooperation, including the war on terror and efforts to halt the spread of weapons of mass destruction. "There will always be situations where our positions do not coincide," Lavrov said. He attributed talk of a "catastrophic" breakdown in relations to media speculation about a new Cold War emerging between the former foes. He said Russia still believes that the planned European missile defense would be a threat to it. Rice was in Moscow for two days seeking to repair damage to U.S.-Russian relations ahead of a planned meeting next month between Putin and President Bush at a summit of G-8 leaders in Germany. However, she gave no hint the United States was willing to back down on its plans for European missile defense. "The United States needs to be able to move forward to use technology to defend itself and we're going to do that," she said. "I don't think that anyone expects the United States to permit somehow a veto on American security interests." On Kosovo, Russia opposes independence for the province from Serbia and fears it could set a dangerous precedent for some restive Russian and former Russian republics. Rice and Lavrov said no progress had been made in bridging differences. "I can't see a ready solution," Rice said at the news conference with Lavrov. He said the same: "It was agreed to search for a solution on Kosovo that would be acceptable for all, but there is no such solution immediately in sight." Before their meeting, Rice criticized the Russians for recent negative comments by Putin and other officials that she said had obscured positive developments and cooperation. "We did talk about the need to keep the temperature down," Rice said after meeting Putin at his home outside Moscow. She described some remarks as "overheated rhetoric," in particular his recent reference in a speech to Nazi Germany, widely perceived as criticism of the United States. "We are going to have our differences, there is no doubt about that. There are going to be old scars to overcome, there is no doubt about that. ... But the relationship needs to be free of exaggerated rhetoric," she said. Asked whether she thought her message was received by the Russians, Rice replied: "I sure hope so, because I don't think you ever hear President Bush use certain kinds of rhetoric about Russia because he respects the partnership." She said she accepted Russia's explanation that Putin had been referring to "extremists." After the Putin-Rice meeting, Lavrov said: "The president supported the American side's understanding that it's necessary to tone down the rhetoric in public statements and concentrate on concrete business." But at the news conference, Lavrov appeared to step back, saying that "it would be more appropriate to consider the statements ... as an invitation to a more fair and frank dialogue." There has been growing tension about the U.S. missile defense plan and concern in Washington about Moscow's treatment of its neighbors and steps Putin has taken to consolidate power in the Kremlin - seen as democratic backsliding - as Russia prepares for presidential and parliamentary elections next year. A planned event at which Rice and Putin were to be photographed together and make brief remarks was canceled by the Kremlin and a senior Russian diplomat on Monday warned the U.S. not to try to go it alone in world affairs. In April, simmering Russian anger over U.S. plans to place missile defense components in Poland and the Czech Republic, both former Warsaw Pact members, boiled over despite Washington's pledges to cooperate with Moscow on the system. Last month, hours before the United States and its NATO allies met in Norway to discuss the matter, Putin threatened to suspend Russia's participation in a key treaty limiting military deployments in Europe. Russia views U.S. activity in its former sphere of influence with growing suspicion. Just last week, Putin denounced "disrespect for human life, claims to global exclusiveness and dictate, just as it was in the time of the Third Reich." Associated Press Writer Vladimir Isachenkov contributed to this report from Novo-Ogaryovo, Russia. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. Copyright &copy 1998-2006 WHIZNEWS.COM All rights reserved EEO Public File Report
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/R/RICE_PUTIN?SITE=WHIZ&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	Zanesville - whiznews.com - Southeastern Ohio's Resource May 15, 4:44 PM EDT U.S., Russians, agree to ease rhetoric Buy AP Photo Reprints MOSCOW (AP) -- Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice won agreement Tuesday from Vladimir Putin to tone down Russian tough talk in an effort to improve strained ties, though neither side gave any ground on major disagreements over missile defense and Kosovo. Rice said no country could veto U.S. plans to set up a missile defense system in Europe that Russia vehemently opposes. She also said the United States still supports a U.N. plan for independence for the Serbian province of Kosovo, an idea Russia opposes. She and Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov were collegial at a news conference where they were peppered with questions about contentious issues. They stressed areas of cooperation, including the war on terror and efforts to halt the spread of weapons of mass destruction. "There will always be situations where our positions do not coincide," Lavrov said. He attributed talk of a "catastrophic" breakdown in relations to media speculation about a new Cold War emerging between the former foes. He said Russia still believes that the planned European missile defense would be a threat to it. Rice was in Moscow for two days seeking to repair damage to U.S.-Russian relations ahead of a planned meeting next month between Putin and President Bush at a summit of G-8 leaders in Germany. However, she gave no hint the United States was willing to back down on its plans for European missile defense. "The United States needs to be able to move forward to use technology to defend itself and we're going to do that," she said. "I don't think that anyone expects the United States to permit somehow a veto on American security interests." On Kosovo, Russia opposes independence for the province from Serbia and fears it could set a dangerous precedent for some restive Russian and former Russian republics. Rice and Lavrov said no progress had been made in bridging differences. "I can't see a ready solution," Rice said at the news conference with Lavrov. He said the same: "It was agreed to search for a solution on Kosovo that would be acceptable for all, but there is no such solution immediately in sight." Before their meeting, Rice criticized the Russians for recent negative comments by Putin and other officials that she said had obscured positive developments and cooperation. "We did talk about the need to keep the temperature down," Rice said after meeting Putin at his home outside Moscow. She described some remarks as "overheated rhetoric," in particular his recent reference in a speech to Nazi Germany, widely perceived as criticism of the United States. "We are going to have our differences, there is no doubt about that. There are going to be old scars to overcome, there is no doubt about that. ... But the relationship needs to be free of exaggerated rhetoric," she said. Asked whether she thought her message was received by the Russians, Rice replied: "I sure hope so, because I don't think you ever hear President Bush use certain kinds of rhetoric about Russia because he respects the partnership." She said she accepted Russia's explanation that Putin had been referring to "extremists." After the Putin-Rice meeting, Lavrov said: "The president supported the American side's understanding that it's necessary to tone down the rhetoric in public statements and concentrate on concrete business." But at the news conference, Lavrov appeared to step back, saying that "it would be more appropriate to consider the statements ... as an invitation to a more fair and frank dialogue." There has been growing tension about the U.S. missile defense plan and concern in Washington about Moscow's treatment of its neighbors and steps Putin has taken to consolidate power in the Kremlin - seen as democratic backsliding - as Russia prepares for presidential and parliamentary elections next year. A planned event at which Rice and Putin were to be photographed together and make brief remarks was canceled by the Kremlin and a senior Russian diplomat on Monday warned the U.S. not to try to go it alone in world affairs. In April, simmering Russian anger over U.S. plans to place missile defense components in Poland and the Czech Republic, both former Warsaw Pact members, boiled over despite Washington's pledges to cooperate with Moscow on the system. Last month, hours before the United States and its NATO allies met in Norway to discuss the matter, Putin threatened to suspend Russia's participation in a key treaty limiting military deployments in Europe. Russia views U.S. activity in its former sphere of influence with growing suspicion. Just last week, Putin denounced "disrespect for human life, claims to global exclusiveness and dictate, just as it was in the time of the Third Reich." Associated Press Writer Vladimir Isachenkov contributed to this report from Novo-Ogaryovo, Russia. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. Copyright &copy 1998-2006 WHIZNEWS.COM All rights reserved EEO Public File Report
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/B/BRAZIL_MISSIONARY_KILLED?SITE=WHIZ&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	Zanesville - whiznews.com - Southeastern Ohio's Resource May 15, 5:09 PM EDT Rancher guilty in killing of U.S. nun Rancher guilty in killing of U.S. nun Pope assails Marxism and capitalism Pope news conference causes stir Pope to canonize first Brazilian saint Pope visits Brazil, church loses ground Buy AP Photo Reprints Justice Delayed: Latin America's Dirty Wars Leaning Left: Political Changes in Latin America Rancher guilty in killing of U.S. nun Brazil indigenous groups fault pope talk Shake-up in Colombia's security forces Cuba tries Castro archenemy in absentia Colombia orders more lawmakers arrested BELEM, Brazil (AP) -- A Brazilian rancher was convicted Tuesday of ordering the killing of an American nun and rain forest defender in a case seen as an important test of justice in the largely lawless Amazon region. A judge sentenced him to 30 years in prison. Vitalmiro Bastos de Moura "showed a violent personality unsuited to living in society," the judge said in sentencing him to the maximum penalty for the 2005 slaying of 73-year-old Dorothy Stang. The "killing was carried out in violent and cowardly manner," Judge Raymond Moises Alves Flexa said. Stang's brother David, who flew to Brazil for the two-day trial, trembled and wept after the verdict. "Justice was done," he said, adding that he now believed another rancher also accused of ordering his sister's killing may be convicted when he goes to trial later this year. Stang, a naturalized Brazilian originally from Dayton, Ohio, helped build schools and was among the activists who worked to defend the rights of impoverished and exploited farmers drawn to the Amazon region. She also attempted to halt the rampant jungle clearing by loggers and ranchers that has destroyed some 20 percent of the forest cover. Tuesday's verdict came after three other men convicted in connection with the killing - a gunman, his accomplice and a go-between - recanted earlier testimony that Moura had offered them $25,000 to kill Stang in a conflict over land he wanted to log and develop. Human rights defenders said the trial was a key measure of whether the powerful masterminds behind land-related killings can be held accountable in the Amazon state of Para. Of nearly 800 such killings during the past 30 years, only four masterminds have been convicted and none are behind bars. Shortly after Stang's killing, President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva ordered the army into the region, suspended logging permits and ordered large swathes of rain forest off-limits to development. Moura denied ordering the killing during the trial, and his lawyer mounted a lengthy anti-American tirade in his closing arguments, calling Stang "the fruit of a poisoned tree." Accusing the United States of crimes ranging from atom bombs dropped on Japan during World War II to the treatment of prisoners at its Guantanamo Bay detention center in Cuba, defense attorney Americo Leal said Stang "shares this DNA of violence, the DNA to kill." "The victim didn't stop practicing her criminal activity and she died as a result of the violence she tried to implant," he said. David Stang expressed dismay. "The trial's about Bida, Dorothy was the victim," Stang said, referring to Moura by his nickname. "So this fantasy world the defense lawyers are trying to create only maintains this cycle of killings." On Monday, Moura denied he ordered Stang's killing, maintaining he did not even know the nun, who had been organizing poor settlers around the jungle town of Anapu for 23 years. "This thing about money isn't true. This thing about me and Bida talking isn't true," Clodoaldo Carlos Batista said Monday, in recanting his earlier testimony implicating Moura. Batista, who was sentenced to 17 years in prison as an accomplice to gunman Rayfran Neves Sales, claimed he had been coerced into implicating Moura by two American FBI agents who traveled to Brazil shortly after the murder to monitor the police investigation. Both Batista and Sales, who was sentenced to 27 years in prison, claimed the agents threatened to send them to the United States, where they could face the death penalty if they did not cooperate. Brazil does not have the death penalty and the most a convict can serve at a single stretch is 30 years. U.S. Embassy spokesman Richard Mei said Brazil does not allow the extradition of its citizens to other countries for crimes committed in Brazil. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. Copyright &copy 1998-2006 WHIZNEWS.COM All rights reserved EEO Public File Report
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/B/BRAZIL_MISSIONARY_KILLED?SITE=WHIZ&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	Zanesville - whiznews.com - Southeastern Ohio's Resource May 15, 5:09 PM EDT Rancher guilty in killing of U.S. nun Rancher guilty in killing of U.S. nun Pope assails Marxism and capitalism Pope news conference causes stir Pope to canonize first Brazilian saint Pope visits Brazil, church loses ground Buy AP Photo Reprints Justice Delayed: Latin America's Dirty Wars Leaning Left: Political Changes in Latin America Rancher guilty in killing of U.S. nun Brazil indigenous groups fault pope talk Shake-up in Colombia's security forces Cuba tries Castro archenemy in absentia Colombia orders more lawmakers arrested BELEM, Brazil (AP) -- A Brazilian rancher was convicted Tuesday of ordering the killing of an American nun and rain forest defender in a case seen as an important test of justice in the largely lawless Amazon region. A judge sentenced him to 30 years in prison. Vitalmiro Bastos de Moura "showed a violent personality unsuited to living in society," the judge said in sentencing him to the maximum penalty for the 2005 slaying of 73-year-old Dorothy Stang. The "killing was carried out in violent and cowardly manner," Judge Raymond Moises Alves Flexa said. Stang's brother David, who flew to Brazil for the two-day trial, trembled and wept after the verdict. "Justice was done," he said, adding that he now believed another rancher also accused of ordering his sister's killing may be convicted when he goes to trial later this year. Stang, a naturalized Brazilian originally from Dayton, Ohio, helped build schools and was among the activists who worked to defend the rights of impoverished and exploited farmers drawn to the Amazon region. She also attempted to halt the rampant jungle clearing by loggers and ranchers that has destroyed some 20 percent of the forest cover. Tuesday's verdict came after three other men convicted in connection with the killing - a gunman, his accomplice and a go-between - recanted earlier testimony that Moura had offered them $25,000 to kill Stang in a conflict over land he wanted to log and develop. Human rights defenders said the trial was a key measure of whether the powerful masterminds behind land-related killings can be held accountable in the Amazon state of Para. Of nearly 800 such killings during the past 30 years, only four masterminds have been convicted and none are behind bars. Shortly after Stang's killing, President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva ordered the army into the region, suspended logging permits and ordered large swathes of rain forest off-limits to development. Moura denied ordering the killing during the trial, and his lawyer mounted a lengthy anti-American tirade in his closing arguments, calling Stang "the fruit of a poisoned tree." Accusing the United States of crimes ranging from atom bombs dropped on Japan during World War II to the treatment of prisoners at its Guantanamo Bay detention center in Cuba, defense attorney Americo Leal said Stang "shares this DNA of violence, the DNA to kill." "The victim didn't stop practicing her criminal activity and she died as a result of the violence she tried to implant," he said. David Stang expressed dismay. "The trial's about Bida, Dorothy was the victim," Stang said, referring to Moura by his nickname. "So this fantasy world the defense lawyers are trying to create only maintains this cycle of killings." On Monday, Moura denied he ordered Stang's killing, maintaining he did not even know the nun, who had been organizing poor settlers around the jungle town of Anapu for 23 years. "This thing about money isn't true. This thing about me and Bida talking isn't true," Clodoaldo Carlos Batista said Monday, in recanting his earlier testimony implicating Moura. Batista, who was sentenced to 17 years in prison as an accomplice to gunman Rayfran Neves Sales, claimed he had been coerced into implicating Moura by two American FBI agents who traveled to Brazil shortly after the murder to monitor the police investigation. Both Batista and Sales, who was sentenced to 27 years in prison, claimed the agents threatened to send them to the United States, where they could face the death penalty if they did not cooperate. Brazil does not have the death penalty and the most a convict can serve at a single stretch is 30 years. U.S. Embassy spokesman Richard Mei said Brazil does not allow the extradition of its citizens to other countries for crimes committed in Brazil. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. Copyright &copy 1998-2006 WHIZNEWS.COM All rights reserved EEO Public File Report
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/I/ISRAEL_PALESTINIANS?SITE=WHIZ&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	Zanesville - whiznews.com - Southeastern Ohio's Resource May 15, 5:16 PM EDT Factional fighting terrorizes Gaza By IBRAHIM BARZAK and KARIN LAUB Egyptian charged as spy praises Israel Factional fighting terrorizes Gaza Pardoned oil financier gets degree Jordan's king set to meet Olmert Abbas: Implement security plan Poll: Europeans see Jewish influence Olmert, Jordanian king to discuss peace Israel prepares for Jerusalem day Conflict in the Middle East Buy AP Photo Reprints GAZA CITY, Gaza Strip (AP) -- Hamas gunmen riddled a Fatah police jeep with gunfire at close range Tuesday, killing eight policemen in the most ruthless round yet of factional fighting, pushing the Palestinian unity government closer to collapse. Gunmen in black ski masks took up positions in the streets and terrified residents huddled in their homes. Israel, too, was briefly drawn into the battle. "I don't know when it's going to end and what the future will bring," said Salman Abu Arafeh, 42, a Gaza City interior decorator who was pinned down by gunfire in his apartment for hours, along with his wife and two children. A total of 15 people were killed in Tuesday's fighting. An Egyptian mediator said a truce was reached late Tuesday - the third in as many nights. The others have collapsed within hours. In the West Bank, Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas called for the immediate implementation of a security plan that would put all rival forces under one command. However, his call is unlikely to be heeded: the fighting made it clear the Hamas-Fatah power struggle was never really resolved, despite formation of the unity government in March. Gaza's turmoil further weakened hopes for a resumption of Israeli-Palestinian peace talks, despite a new push by the Arab world to bring the sides to the table, based on an offer of Arab recognition of Israel in exchange for an Israeli withdrawal from all lands it occupied in the 1967 Middle East War. Israel has expressed major reservations, but Prime Minister Ehud Olmert told Jordan's King Abdullah on Tuesday that he's ready to meet with Arab leaders in Israel or anywhere else to talk about the idea. Abdullah, in turn, asked Olmert to set a timetable for reaching a peace deal. Negotiations, however, are inconceivable if the Palestinians descend into a protracted civil war. This week's fighting was the worst since Hamas and Fatah agreed to share power in February. In all, 23 people have been killed and dozens wounded in three days of street fighting. Among the injured was a 10-year-old girl caught in the crossfire late Tuesday and critically wounded by a gunshot to the head, Palestinian rescue workers said. In the deadliest battle, Hamas gunmen fired rockets, rocket-propelled grenades and mortars early Tuesday at a training base for Fatah forces guarding the Karni cargo crossing with Israel. U.S. security experts had helped set up the base to improve security at Karni. After the initial attack, Hamas fired on Fatah reinforcements rushing to the scene, and one of the jeeps carrying Fatah fighters veered off the road and crashed. Hamas gunmen surrounded the vehicle and riddled it with gunfire, said one witness, who works in a nearby factory. "It was unbelievable. May God help us," said the man, who gave only his first name, Jamil, out of fear for his safety. Eight men were killed, hospital officials said. Fatah security men also came under fire as they tried to move the bodies away from the overturned jeep. Two Israeli helicopter gunships and three tanks moved toward the area, and Hamas fighters quickly withdrew. At one point, a major in the Palestinian Presidential Guard was killed by Israeli army fire as he tried to leave the crossing, security officials said. Before sundown, Hamas said it fired rockets at Sderot, an Israeli town near Gaza in retaliation for the Israeli attack. Residents counted more than 20 rockets. One rocket hit a house, seriously wounding an Israeli woman. It was the first time in three weeks that Hamas has claimed responsibility for a rocket barrage. Israeli Defense Minister Amir Peretz summoned army commanders for late-night consultations. Earlier, defense officials said Israel would not be dragged into the fighting. However, Israel closed Karni, the only route for cargo into Gaza. The closure means Gaza will soon run out of fuel for its power plant and electricity to most of the strip could be shut down by Wednesday, said Abdel Karim Abdeen, head of the Palestinian Energy Authority. The current fighting had many of the elements of previous Hamas-Fatah clashes: combatants kidnapped scores of rivals, set up roadblocks to search cars, took over rooftops of high-rises and often fired randomly in crowded residential areas. Around Abbas' seaside compound in Gaza City, security forces searched cars and inspected motorists' ID cards. They gave those with beards - a possible sign of Hamas support - an extra close look. Both sides have become more ruthless this time, with Fatah accused of an execution-style killing of two Hamas supporters Sunday and Hamas ambushing the Fatah jeep Tuesday. This might make it more difficult to negotiate a cease-fire and revive the coalition. At the core of the fighting is the unresolved power struggle between Hamas, which won parliamentary elections last year, and Abbas' Fatah, which has dominated Palestinian politics for four decades. Squeezed by an international aid boycott, Hamas realized it could not govern alone and brought Fatah into the government. But the two sides never worked out their differences, particularly over security. While the power-sharing deal largely halted factional fighting for three months, both sides continued to smuggle weapons through tunnels under the Egypt-Gaza border, preparing for the next round. The spark for the new fighting was deployment of 3,000 Fatah-allied members of the security forces in Gaza City last week, over Hamas' objections. Hamas has also bristled at Abbas' appointment of former Gaza strongman Mohammed Dahlan as his national security adviser. "Palestinian society is now similar to Lebanese society - always in civil war or on the verge of civil war," said analyst Hillel Frisch of Israel's Bar-Ilan University. "It's going to be cyclical: both sides know the tremendous costs, so they try to contain it, but the problem is simply left unresolved, and is probably unresolvable," he said. Both sides accused each other of waging a carefully orchestrated campaign to destroy the other. The National Security, a force loyal to Abbas, said Hamas is leading a military coup against the Palestinian security establishment. A Hamas spokesman, Abdel Latif Kanuah, said Fatah is involved in a U.S.-backed plot to overthrow Hamas, referring to U.S. backing for Abbas' elite forces, the Presidential Guards. Despite the unity government's shortcomings - and its failure to end the international embargo imposed on Hamas - it's unlikely Abbas will dissolve it and call early elections. Hamas would consider that an attempt to steal its election victory and likely oppose it violently. Karin Laub contributed to this report from Ramallah, West Bank. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. Copyright &copy 1998-2006 WHIZNEWS.COM All rights reserved EEO Public File Report
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/I/ISRAEL_PALESTINIANS?SITE=WHIZ&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	Zanesville - whiznews.com - Southeastern Ohio's Resource May 15, 5:16 PM EDT Factional fighting terrorizes Gaza By IBRAHIM BARZAK and KARIN LAUB Egyptian charged as spy praises Israel Factional fighting terrorizes Gaza Pardoned oil financier gets degree Jordan's king set to meet Olmert Abbas: Implement security plan Poll: Europeans see Jewish influence Olmert, Jordanian king to discuss peace Israel prepares for Jerusalem day Conflict in the Middle East Buy AP Photo Reprints GAZA CITY, Gaza Strip (AP) -- Hamas gunmen riddled a Fatah police jeep with gunfire at close range Tuesday, killing eight policemen in the most ruthless round yet of factional fighting, pushing the Palestinian unity government closer to collapse. Gunmen in black ski masks took up positions in the streets and terrified residents huddled in their homes. Israel, too, was briefly drawn into the battle. "I don't know when it's going to end and what the future will bring," said Salman Abu Arafeh, 42, a Gaza City interior decorator who was pinned down by gunfire in his apartment for hours, along with his wife and two children. A total of 15 people were killed in Tuesday's fighting. An Egyptian mediator said a truce was reached late Tuesday - the third in as many nights. The others have collapsed within hours. In the West Bank, Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas called for the immediate implementation of a security plan that would put all rival forces under one command. However, his call is unlikely to be heeded: the fighting made it clear the Hamas-Fatah power struggle was never really resolved, despite formation of the unity government in March. Gaza's turmoil further weakened hopes for a resumption of Israeli-Palestinian peace talks, despite a new push by the Arab world to bring the sides to the table, based on an offer of Arab recognition of Israel in exchange for an Israeli withdrawal from all lands it occupied in the 1967 Middle East War. Israel has expressed major reservations, but Prime Minister Ehud Olmert told Jordan's King Abdullah on Tuesday that he's ready to meet with Arab leaders in Israel or anywhere else to talk about the idea. Abdullah, in turn, asked Olmert to set a timetable for reaching a peace deal. Negotiations, however, are inconceivable if the Palestinians descend into a protracted civil war. This week's fighting was the worst since Hamas and Fatah agreed to share power in February. In all, 23 people have been killed and dozens wounded in three days of street fighting. Among the injured was a 10-year-old girl caught in the crossfire late Tuesday and critically wounded by a gunshot to the head, Palestinian rescue workers said. In the deadliest battle, Hamas gunmen fired rockets, rocket-propelled grenades and mortars early Tuesday at a training base for Fatah forces guarding the Karni cargo crossing with Israel. U.S. security experts had helped set up the base to improve security at Karni. After the initial attack, Hamas fired on Fatah reinforcements rushing to the scene, and one of the jeeps carrying Fatah fighters veered off the road and crashed. Hamas gunmen surrounded the vehicle and riddled it with gunfire, said one witness, who works in a nearby factory. "It was unbelievable. May God help us," said the man, who gave only his first name, Jamil, out of fear for his safety. Eight men were killed, hospital officials said. Fatah security men also came under fire as they tried to move the bodies away from the overturned jeep. Two Israeli helicopter gunships and three tanks moved toward the area, and Hamas fighters quickly withdrew. At one point, a major in the Palestinian Presidential Guard was killed by Israeli army fire as he tried to leave the crossing, security officials said. Before sundown, Hamas said it fired rockets at Sderot, an Israeli town near Gaza in retaliation for the Israeli attack. Residents counted more than 20 rockets. One rocket hit a house, seriously wounding an Israeli woman. It was the first time in three weeks that Hamas has claimed responsibility for a rocket barrage. Israeli Defense Minister Amir Peretz summoned army commanders for late-night consultations. Earlier, defense officials said Israel would not be dragged into the fighting. However, Israel closed Karni, the only route for cargo into Gaza. The closure means Gaza will soon run out of fuel for its power plant and electricity to most of the strip could be shut down by Wednesday, said Abdel Karim Abdeen, head of the Palestinian Energy Authority. The current fighting had many of the elements of previous Hamas-Fatah clashes: combatants kidnapped scores of rivals, set up roadblocks to search cars, took over rooftops of high-rises and often fired randomly in crowded residential areas. Around Abbas' seaside compound in Gaza City, security forces searched cars and inspected motorists' ID cards. They gave those with beards - a possible sign of Hamas support - an extra close look. Both sides have become more ruthless this time, with Fatah accused of an execution-style killing of two Hamas supporters Sunday and Hamas ambushing the Fatah jeep Tuesday. This might make it more difficult to negotiate a cease-fire and revive the coalition. At the core of the fighting is the unresolved power struggle between Hamas, which won parliamentary elections last year, and Abbas' Fatah, which has dominated Palestinian politics for four decades. Squeezed by an international aid boycott, Hamas realized it could not govern alone and brought Fatah into the government. But the two sides never worked out their differences, particularly over security. While the power-sharing deal largely halted factional fighting for three months, both sides continued to smuggle weapons through tunnels under the Egypt-Gaza border, preparing for the next round. The spark for the new fighting was deployment of 3,000 Fatah-allied members of the security forces in Gaza City last week, over Hamas' objections. Hamas has also bristled at Abbas' appointment of former Gaza strongman Mohammed Dahlan as his national security adviser. "Palestinian society is now similar to Lebanese society - always in civil war or on the verge of civil war," said analyst Hillel Frisch of Israel's Bar-Ilan University. "It's going to be cyclical: both sides know the tremendous costs, so they try to contain it, but the problem is simply left unresolved, and is probably unresolvable," he said. Both sides accused each other of waging a carefully orchestrated campaign to destroy the other. The National Security, a force loyal to Abbas, said Hamas is leading a military coup against the Palestinian security establishment. A Hamas spokesman, Abdel Latif Kanuah, said Fatah is involved in a U.S.-backed plot to overthrow Hamas, referring to U.S. backing for Abbas' elite forces, the Presidential Guards. Despite the unity government's shortcomings - and its failure to end the international embargo imposed on Hamas - it's unlikely Abbas will dissolve it and call early elections. Hamas would consider that an attempt to steal its election victory and likely oppose it violently. Karin Laub contributed to this report from Ramallah, West Bank. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. Copyright &copy 1998-2006 WHIZNEWS.COM All rights reserved EEO Public File Report
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/J/JAPAN_TOJO?SITE=WSAW&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	Send it to 7 May 15, 3:17 PM EDT Granddaughter of Japanese wartime leader Hideki Tojo to run for parliament Granddaughter of Japanese wartime leader Hideki Tojo to run for parliament Japanese teen carrying mother's severed head walks into police station Japan's lower house to vote on 2-year extension of Iraq mission Reports: Boy found in Japan's anonymous drop box for unwanted children Invisibility cloak, longer strolls? Japan's imperial couple mull a life more common Buy AP Photo Reprints TOKYO (AP) -- The granddaughter of wartime Prime Minister Hideki Tojo, who was executed for crimes against humanity, said Tuesday she will run for a parliamentary seat in July to "restore the honor" of those who gave their lives for Japan. Yuko Tojo, 67, told The Associated Press she will run as an independent from the Tokyo constituency for the legislature's upper house. "I want to change Japan. I want Japanese children to be able to take pride in their country again," Tojo said. In a separate statement, Tojo called for a national debate on punitive postwar treaties imposed on Japan "to show appreciation and respect toward for those who gave their lives for Japan, and to restore their honor." Gen. Tojo, prime minister from 1941 to 1944, unleashed a savage war of aggression on Japan's neighbors and has been widely remembered both at home and abroad as Asia's answer to Adolf Hitler. Tojo, who is enshrined with Japan's 2.5 million war dead at Tokyo's Yasukuni Shrine, also ordered the surprise attack on Pearl Harbor that plunged the United States into World War II. Yasukuni is vilified by critics as symbolizing the country's militaristic past because it honors Class-A criminals such as Tojo. He was sentenced to death at the Tokyo war trials and executed in 1948. Yuko Tojo has defended her grandfather's legacy, contending in a 1992 memoir that he had no choice but to take Japan to war after the country's survival was threatened by a U.S. oil embargo. The book became the basis for a movie in 1998, "Pride," which broke old taboos by portraying Gen. Tojo as the victim of vindictive Allied judges during the Tokyo tribunals. "Pride" became one of the top-grossing domestic films that year, demonstrating the growing popularity of revisionist views in Japan. Other nationalistic films have followed. Tojo's candidacy comes as the Japanese government takes steps toward a vote on revising its U.S.-drafted pacifist Constitution, which prohibits the use of war in settling international disputes. She has also rejected suggestions that Yasukuni stop honoring executed war criminals to allay views in China and South Korea that Japan has not fully atoned for its wartime atrocities there. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. Send it to 7 Gray Television Group, Inc. - Copyright  2002-2007 - Designed and Powered by Clickability
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/C/COLOMBIA_SCANDAL?SITE=WSAW&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	Send it to 7 May 15, 6:03 PM EDT Colombia defense minister admits police wiretapped Uribe's main opponent during campaign Colombia defense minister admits police wiretapped Uribe's main opponent during campaign Colombia replaces police chief, reveals wiretapping of government, opposition Colombia orders more arrests of lawmakers in paramilitary scandal Roadside bomb kills 10 Colombian soldiers in deadliest attack this year; army blames rebels Colombia takes war on drugs to supermarket, targeting natural coca products made by Indians Buy AP Photo Reprints Justice Delayed: Latin America's Dirty Wars Leaning Left: Political Changes in Latin America Brazilian rancher found guilty of ordering the killing of American nun Dorothy Stang Colombia defense minister admits police wiretapped Uribe's main opponent during campaign Brazil indigenous groups slam pope for saying they were 'silently longing' to be Christians Colombia replaces police chief, reveals wiretapping of government, opposition Cuba tries Castro archenemy in absentia for terrorism BOGOTA, Colombia (AP) -- An illegal police wiretapping operation against journalists, opposition figures and government members included the man President Alvaro Uribe defeated in the last election, his defense minister acknowledged Tuesday. Defense Minister Juan Manuel Santos insisted that the Uribe administration was unaware of the police spying operation. "We don't know who ordered these interceptions and the government has never learned what they contain," he said. Santos refused to reveal all the known victims of the wiretapping, but he did acknowledge that Carlos Gaviria of the Polo Democratico Alternativo party, who finished second in May 2006 presidential elections, was spied on. "That's as much as I'm going to say. I saw others but I don't think it merits giving the names," he told a news conference. The wiretapping didn't surprise Gaviria, who told The Associated Press that it "all formed part of the dirty campaign against me." Other Uribe opponents were incredulous at the official denials of responsibility. Uribe's national police chief, Gen. Jorge Daniel Castro, said he too had been unaware of the domestic spying campaign by his own officers during the lead-up to Uribe's re-election. "It's impossible to think that Uribe didn't benefit from this," said Sen. Juan Fernando Cristo, a spokesman for the opposition Liberal party. "A middling rank officer didn't come up with this ... someone gave the order and someone received the transcripts." The wiretapping scandal complicates Uribe's efforts to deal with an ever-widening political firestorm over the corrupting influence of illegal far-right militias in Colombia. Twelve members of Congress, all but one of them Uribe allies, have been jailed on charges of colluding with paramilitaries who committed some 10,000 murders during a decade-long reign of terror, according to Colombia's chief prosecutor. A cousin of Uribe is among the congressmen under investigation, and more arrests are expected. Moving quickly to contain the damage since a news magazine first reported about the spying operation over the weekend, Uribe forced Castro to resign Monday along with the police intelligence chief. Another 10 police generals were forced to retire to make way for the new commander, Oscar Naranjo, a one-star general. But opposition leaders say the government still must explain who ordered the illegal wiretaps, who was monitored and who benefited from them. And Naranjo said Tuesday he is committed to finding and punishing those responsible. Political opponents and investigative journalists have complained for years of being harassed and wiretapped by Colombia's security forces, who have received U.S. eavesdropping equipment and training for criminal investigations against drug traffickers and leftist rebels. Myles Frechette, U.S. ambassador to the country from 1994-97, complained at one point that his residence was so badly bugged, he couldn't make phone calls on weekends. Asked whether he believes Uribe knew of the eavesdropping operation, Frechette said "experience would tell you that somebody close to him knew that stuff," he said. Although Uribe enjoys widespread support among Colombia's elite for making cities safer and putting leftist rebels on the defense, he is facing an ever more skeptical U.S. Congress. His supporters worry the scandal could jeopardize U.S. military aid to Colombia, the biggest recipient of assistance from Washington outside of the Middle East and Afghanistan. AP writer Frank Bajak in Bogota contributed to this report. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. Send it to 7 Gray Television Group, Inc. - Copyright  2002-2007 - Designed and Powered by Clickability
http://hosted.ap.org/	News from The Associated Press
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/B/BRAZIL_MISSIONARY_KILLED?SITE=WSAW&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	Send it to 7 May 15, 6:37 PM EDT Brazilian rancher found guilty of ordering the killing of American nun Dorothy Stang Brazilian rancher found guilty of ordering the killing of American nun Dorothy Stang Pope Benedict XVI blames Marxism, unbridled capitalism for Latin America's problems Pope causes stir on abortion in first news conference Pope Benedict XVI to canonize Brazil's first native-born saint Pope heads to Brazil as church loses ground in most populous Roman Catholic country Buy AP Photo Reprints Justice Delayed: Latin America's Dirty Wars Leaning Left: Political Changes in Latin America Brazilian rancher found guilty of ordering the killing of American nun Dorothy Stang Colombia defense minister admits police wiretapped Uribe's main opponent during campaign Brazil indigenous groups slam pope for saying they were 'silently longing' to be Christians Colombia replaces police chief, reveals wiretapping of government, opposition Cuba tries Castro archenemy in absentia for terrorism BELEM, Brazil (AP) -- A Brazilian rancher was convicted Tuesday of ordering the killing of American nun and rain forest defender Dorothy Stang in a case seen an important test of justice in the largely lawless Amazon region. A judge sentenced him to 30 years in prison. Vitalmiro Bastos de Moura was found guilty of masterminding the shooting of 73-year-old Stang on Feb. 12, 2005, along a muddy stretch of road deep in the rain forest. Judge Raymond Moises Alves Flexa sentenced Moura to 30 years in prison, the maximum sentence, in a case seen as a test of whether the government could crack down on lawlessness in the Amazon. Moura "showed a violent personality unsuited to living in society," the judge said, adding that the "killing was carried out in violent and cowardly manner." Stang's brother David, who flew to Brazil for the trial, trembled and cried after the verdict. "Justice was done," he said, adding that he now believed another rancher accused of ordering the killing may be convicted when he goes to trial later this year. The conviction came even though three other men convicted in connection with the killing - a gunman, his accomplice and a go-between - recanted earlier testimony that the rancher had offered them 50,000 reals (US$25,000; euro18,400) to kill the nun. Moura is one of two ranchers accused of ordering Stang's killing in a conflict over land he wanted to log and develop but she wasn't trying to protect. Stang, a naturalized Brazilian originally from Dayton, Ohio, helped build schools and was among the activists who have tried to defend the rights of impoverished and often exploited farmers drawn to the Amazon region. She also attempted to halt the rampant jungle clearing by loggers and ranchers that has already ripped away some 20 percent of the forest cover. Human rights defenders said the trial was a key measure of whether the powerful masterminds behind land-related killings can be held accountable in the Amazon state of Para. Of nearly 800 such killings in Para during the past 30 years, only four masterminds have been convicted and none are behind bars. Shortly after Stang's killing, President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva ordered the army into the region, suspended logging permits, and ordered large swathes of rain forest off-limits to development. Moura in court denied ordering the killing, and his lawyer mounted a lengthy anti-American tirade in his closing argument in an attempt to win freedom for his client. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. Send it to 7 Gray Television Group, Inc. - Copyright  2002-2007 - Designed and Powered by Clickability
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/I/IRAQ?SITE=WSAW&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	Send it to 7 May 15, 6:39 PM EDT Planes drop leaflets as search intensifies for 3 missing American soldiers in Iraq By ROBERT H. REID The Toll: Coalition Casualties Since March 2003 U.S. Allows Mahdi Army a Security Role Iraqis Struggle in Police Training Four Years: AP Journalists Look Back Iraq and Vietnam: Contrasting Protests Land Mines From Iran-Iraq War Sold on Black Market Iraqi Outpost Tests War Strategy Iraq's Toll Felt Across U.S. Soldier Diagnosed Before Attack end soldier diagnosis --> end interactive icon section --> How MySpace is Changing the Face of War Latest photos from Iraq Planes drop leaflets as search intensifies for 3 missing American soldiers in Iraq After jet-setting offseason, New Orleans Saints star Reggie Bush refocuses on football Bush reels in gifts from admirers, but Cheney's haul was even bigger Clinton, Obama back Senate Democrats effort to cut off funds in Iraq U.S. soldiers find tips flowing from rifts within powerful Shiite militia run by young cleric Executive Summary: DOD Inspector General on Pre-Iraq War Intelligence Activities(2/9/2007) Unclassified National Intelligence Estimate Summary on Iraq (2/2/2007) Inspector General Report on Iraq Reconstruction (1/31/2007) Buy AP Photo Reprints BAGHDAD (AP) -- U.S. aircraft dropped leaflets seeking information about three U.S. soldiers feared captured by al-Qaida, as troops intensified the search Tuesday despite a warning from the terror group that the hunt will endanger the captives' lives. The U.S. command said the searchers were trying to isolate areas where they suspect the captives may have been taken after the pre-dawn ambush Saturday in which four American troops and an Iraq soldier were killed. "The captors don't have freedom of movement," said Maj. Kenny Mintz of San Diego. "If they have the soldiers, they can't move them from where they are. We're doing a deliberate search of the areas." On Monday, an al-Qaida front group - the Islamic State of Iraq - warned the Americans in a Web statement to call off the hunt "if you want their safety." The warning could indicate that the presence of about 4,000 U.S. and Iraqi troops in the thinly populated farming area 20 miles south of Baghdad is making it difficult for the captors to move the Americans to a secure location. In a statement Tuesday, the U.S. command said American soldiers have questioned more than 450 people and detained at least 11 since the search began last weekend. A later statement said aircraft had dropped leaflets asking for help in locating the soldiers. Trucks with loudspeakers were roaming the area urging people to come forward with any information. No details of the leaflets or their precise message were released. On Tuesday, the military said the soldiers they were assigned to Company D, 4th Battalion, 31st Infantry Regiment, which is part of the 10th Mountain Division from Fort Drum, N.Y. At the time of the attack, the soldiers were in two vehicles "at a stationary observation post trying to interdict terrorists who place roadside bombs," a U.S. spokesman Lt. Col. Christopher Garver said. "There were other observation posts that were trying to do this in the area. They were not moving in a convoy. The entire unit was out operating in this same area," Garver added. Al-Qaida and other insurgent groups have been active for years in the string of towns and villages south of the capital. The area is known as the "triangle of death" because of frequent attacks on U.S. and Iraqi forces as well as Shiite civilians traveling to shrine cities in the south. Last June, al-Qaida claimed responsibility for the deaths of two U.S. soldiers whose mutilated bodies were later found in the same area. The soldiers attacked last Saturday were assigned to a small patrol base set up as part of the new U.S. strategy to move troops from large, heavily defended garrisons to live and work among the people. Critics of the strategy had warned that such small outposts are more vulnerable to attack. Last month, nine American soldiers were killed when a suicide bomber detonated his explosives-laden vehicle near a small patrol base northeast of Baghdad. Last week, an embedded reporter for the Stars and Stripes newspaper, who visited the patrol base south of Baghdad, said the soldiers were housed in a rural home with protective razor wire "not far from the front door." "Soon after the base was established, insurgents began testing their new neighbors," the Stars and Stripes said. "In the first months, one convoy came across seven roadside bombs piled outside the front gates. More recently, U.S. officials had gotten reports that a force of more than two dozen insurgents planned to storm the walls" although the attack never materialized. U.S. officials have not officially released names of the dead and missing soldiers. But relatives said the dead include Sgt. 1st Class James David Connell Jr., 40, of Lake City, Tenn., and Pfc. Daniel Courneya, 19, of Vermontville, Mich. "I'm proud of my dad, because he didn't really fight for himself, he fought for the country," Connell's teenage daughter, Courtney, told Knoxville's WATE-TV. In Michigan, students at Maple Valley High School created a memorial for Courneya, who graduated in 2005 and was well-known in the small community southwest of Lansing. He was a member of the school's track and soccer teams and played clarinet in the band. "It's a tribute of photos, posters, plaques and a picture of him in his uniform," school official Kelly Zank told The Associated Press on Tuesday. Courneya's mother, Wendy Thompson, said her husband, Army Spc. David Thompson, was in Iraq and returning home after learning of his stepson's death. Also Tuesday, at least 51 people were killed or found dead across the country. They included seven killed in a pair of bombings in Baghdad's Tayaran Square shopping area and four who died when mortar shells struck the Shiite area of Sadr City. Under a new government policy limiting media coverage of such tragedies, Iraqi police prevented news photographers and cameramen from filming the scene. The government said the order, announced over the weekend, is aimed at preventing journalists from inadvertently tampering with evidence, protecting the privacy of the wounded and keeping insurgents and militias from keeping track of their success rate. The ban also prevents pictures which call into question U.S. and Iraqi claims of success in quelling violence in Baghdad. Elsewhere, five civilians were killed and 41 wounded when dozens of gunmen attacked a village north of the capital, Iraqi authorities said. A mortar or rocket slammed into the U.S.-controlled Green Zone, wounding five American Embassy contractors, a spokesman said. U.S. Embassy spokesman Lou Fintor said there were no deaths and property damage was minimal. He said the contractors' nationalities had "not yet been confirmed." Fintor said the embassy was "open and functioning normally." &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. Send it to 7 Gray Television Group, Inc. - Copyright  2002-2007 - Designed and Powered by Clickability
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/N/NAZI_ARCHIVE?SITE=WSAW&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	Send it to 7 May 15, 4:14 PM EDT Copies of Nazi archives to be released to Holocaust institutions after 50 years under wraps Copies of Nazi archives to be released to Holocaust institutions after 50 years under wraps 11-nation commission agrees to start transferring Nazi archive to Holocaust researchers Nazi archives help son find long-lost mother, but she declines a reunion Send it to 7 Gray Television Group, Inc. - Copyright  2002-2007 - Designed and Powered by Clickability
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/I/IRAN_NUCLEAR?SITE=WSAW&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	Send it to 7 May 15, 6:38 PM EDT No sign that Iran is complying with U.N. demands, U.S. nuclear envoy warns By WILLIAM J. KOLE No sign that Iran is complying with U.N. demands, U.S. nuclear envoy warns Iranian lawmakers seek to form 'friendship committee' to talk with U.S. Congress Iran says it is investigating academic for 'security' crimes; Rice calls for her release Iran's hard-line President Ahmadinejad tries to pry Gulf Arabs out of U.S. alliance In apparent sign of Ahmadinejad's problems, Iran lets 2 banned newspapers publish again Ahmadinejad's Letter to President Bush Buy AP Photo Reprints VIENNA, Austria (AP) -- Iran persists in its brazen defiance of U.N. Security Council demands that it halt uranium enrichment, the chief U.S. nuclear envoy warned Tuesday ahead of a fresh assessment that could lead to tougher sanctions against Tehran. Gregory L. Schulte said Washington "would welcome a report verifying that Iran has suspended its enrichment-related activities" when the International Atomic Energy Agency, the U.N. nuclear watchdog, delivers its latest update by early next week. "Unfortunately, I don't foresee such a report," Schulte said in a speech at the University of Vienna, calling Iran "a blatant case of noncompliance" with the Nuclear Non-proliferation Treaty. Agency inspectors who visited Iran's main nuclear facility at Natanz on short notice Sunday found evidence to suggest that it may have overcome technological challenges and has started enriching uranium on a significantly wider scale, The New York Times reported Tuesday. IAEA chief Mohamed ElBaradei is now arguing that diplomatic efforts to get Iran to suspend enrichment may no longer make sense if the Islamic republic has the technical ability to enrich on a large scale, a diplomat familiar with the inspection process told The Associated Press. "What he's saying is that we've now crossed a line," said the diplomat, speaking on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to speak with reporters. But Schulte said the international community would continue insisting on suspension to contain what he called "activities that really only make sense in the context of a military program." "Iran continues to defy Security Council demands and shows no sign of planning to comply," he said. "Iran's leadership is actively and defiantly pursuing the technology, material and know-how to produce nuclear weapons." Iran insists its nuclear program is purely peaceful and geared solely toward producing electricity. The U.S. contends it is covertly trying to build nuclear weapons. Meanwhile, a former U.N. inspector said Tuesday that Iran is making "slow but steady" progress in its efforts to enrich uranium, but probably still wouldn't have enough fuel for a single nuclear warhead until 2009 at the earliest. David Albright, who now heads the Washington-based Institute for Science and International Security, said Iran still must overcome some tricky obstacles if it intends to enrich uranium to weapons grade - and it may take tougher sanctions to stop it. "Iran's been making slow but steady progress," he told the AP in a telephone interview. "We think Iran has been moving faster than (the U.S. government) has anticipated." Tehran could have 3,000 centrifuges installed by the end of June at Natanz, although it would need several months more to learn how to operate them, Albright said. He cautioned against concluding that Iran is on the verge of producing an atomic weapon, saying 2009 is the "worst-case scenario" for it to have developed a single warhead. "Our own assessment has been that they've learned to operate a centrifuge over the last six months. What they haven't done is shown that they know how to operate 1,000 centrifuges," he said. Centrifuges, which spin at high speeds to make nuclear fuel, are tricky to operate and are subject to breakdown, Albright added, contending Iran "isn't out of the woods yet." Iran's top nuclear negotiator, Ali Larijani, has agreed to meet European Union foreign policy chief Javier Solana on May 31 to discuss the deadlock over the U.N. demands that Tehran freeze enrichment, Iran's state news agency reported Tuesday. Abandoning the drive to persuade Tehran to suspend its enrichment activities doesn't make sense, said Albright, who contends the U.S. and its allies would lose their "moral high ground" if they ease up. "Iran is steadily moving toward nuclear weapons capability, and the negotiations are not working, and we may have to settle into an extended crisis where we need to sanction Iran and further isolate them," he said. "But this doesn't mean war. ... You have to resist the urge to strike out militarily, which could even be worse than Iran gaining nuclear weaponry," he said. International Atomic Energy Agency: &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. Send it to 7 Gray Television Group, Inc. - Copyright  2002-2007 - Designed and Powered by Clickability
http://apdigitalnews.com/privacy.html	AP Digital | Terms of Use
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/C/CHIRACS_FAREWELL?SITE=WSAW&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	Send it to 7 May 15, 3:59 PM EDT Ending 12 years in power, Chirac says goodbye to French electorate in televised address Buy AP Photo Reprints PARIS (AP) -- Jacques Chirac, in his final presidential appeal to the French, urged his compatriots Tuesday to stay united and proud of the nation he led for 12 years despite uncertainty about France's place in today's world. "Always stay united," Chirac said in a brief televised address Tuesday night, before the debonair 74-year-old turns over the presidency to fellow conservative Nicolas Sarkozy on Wednesday. "A nation is a family. This link that unites us is our most precious asset," he said, sitting in front of French and European Union flags. He said France should be a nation of equal opportunity and an engine of European integration. Both appeals recalled low points of his tenure: the 2005 riots that laid bare deep-rooted discrimination against France's immigrants, and the French rejection of the EU constitution that Chirac had championed. He expressed "pride in a duty fulfilled" but did not list any accomplishments, and his statement lacked the eloquence and passion that have marked many of his speeches. "I know that the new president, Nicolas Sarkozy, will endeavor to lead our nation forward on the paths of the future," Chirac said of his protege-turned-rival, who was elected May 6 after promising an end to the economic stagnation and social tensions that marred Chirac's tenure. Chirac often shone brighter on the global stage than at home, but he made no reference in his parting speech to his dream of a "multi-polar world" less dominated by the United States, or of his steadfast opposition to the U.S.-led invasion of Iraq in 2003, a defining moment of his presidency. Chirac said he would turn his post-presidential attention to "dialogue among cultures and sustainable development." He is expected to create a foundation to capitalize on his international reputation, similar to that of former President Clinton. Aides say the Chirac foundation will focus particularly on Africa. Chirac sought to bring environmental issues into the spotlight, though critics say he had more words than action on the subject. He often stressed cultural understanding over exporting Western values - a stance that Sarkozy distanced himself from in an election-night speech in which he said France would stand beside those oppressed by fundamentalism. France's relations with Africa are likely to be less close and more pragmatic with the departure of Chirac, who nurtured ties with former colonies in Africa - and was criticized for cozying up to authoritarian African leaders. Sarkozy has few of those connections. Stepping down from the presidency, Chirac will be closing out some four decades in politics. Chirac founded the neo-Gaullist Rally for the Republic party, today transformed into the Union for a Popular Movement that Sarkozy headed before being elected president. Chirac built the mainstream right into a powerful political machine. His ambitious search for funds for his party is at the heart of corruption allegations that implicated him but never touched him while he had presidential immunity. He could be summoned for questioning in investigations into illegal party financing as soon as next month, judicial officials say. A former prime minister and longtime ally, Alain Juppe, was questioned Tuesday in a probe linked to Chirac's time as mayor of Paris from 1977-1995. Chirac said his goodbye to Europe on a visit to Berlin on May 3 - and Sarkozy makes his first foreign trip to Berlin immediately after his inauguration. Chirac famously misjudged French voters by staging a referendum on the European constitution. The French and Dutch rejections of the treaty have stalled European integration efforts since; Sarkozy seems keen to revive them with a more streamlined document. After leaving the Elysee Palace, Chirac and his wife Bernadette were to settle temporarily into a deluxe apartment on Paris' Left Bank on loan from the family of slain former Lebanese Prime Minister Rafik Hariri. He is to receive about $8,120 a month in retirement pay as a former president, in addition to retirement pay as a former Paris mayor and for other senior posts he has held. He is also entitled to join the Constitutional Council, one of the highest bodies in the land. The only other president to issue a televised farewell to the nation was Valery Giscard d'Estaing, on May 19, 1981, before turning over power to Socialist President Francois Mitterrand. With a much remembered final "au revoir," Giscard stood, made an exit and left an empty chair in the spotlight. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. Send it to 7 Gray Television Group, Inc. - Copyright  2002-2007 - Designed and Powered by Clickability
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/I/ISRAEL_PALESTINIANS?SITE=WSAW&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	Send it to 7 May 15, 5:39 PM EDT In most ruthless round yet, battles near Gaza's only cargo crossing cut off fuel supply By IBRAHIM BARZAK and KARIN LAUB In most ruthless round yet, battles near Gaza's only cargo crossing cut off fuel supply Egyptian charged with espionage stuns court with praise for Israel at start of trial U.S. oil financier pardoned by Clinton receives honorary degree in Israel Jordan's king set to meet Olmert in attempt to sell Arab-Israeli peace plan Palestinian president calls for immediate implementation of government's security plan Poll: Some Europeans see Jews as having too much sway in U.S. policy, world finance Israeli prime minister and Jordan's king plan private meeting on Arab peace initiative International snubs and urban malaise mar preparations for Israel's Jerusalem celebration Conflict in the Middle East Buy AP Photo Reprints GAZA CITY, Gaza Strip (AP) -- Hamas gunmen riddled a Fatah police jeep with gunfire at close range Tuesday, killing eight policemen in the most ruthless round yet of factional fighting, pushing the Palestinian unity government closer to collapse. Gunmen in black ski masks took up positions in the streets and terrified residents huddled in their homes. Israel, too, was briefly drawn into the battle. "I don't know when it's going to end and what the future will bring," said Salman Abu Arafeh, 42, a Gaza City interior decorator who was pinned down by gunfire in his apartment for hours, along with his wife and two children. A total of 15 people were killed in Tuesday's fighting. An Egyptian mediator said a truce was reached late Tuesday - the third in as many nights. The others have collapsed within hours. In the West Bank, Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas called for the immediate implementation of a security plan that would put all rival forces under one command. However, his call is unlikely to be heeded: the fighting made it clear the Hamas-Fatah power struggle was never really resolved, despite formation of the unity government in March. Gaza's turmoil further weakened hopes for a resumption of Israeli-Palestinian peace talks, despite a new push by the Arab world to bring the sides to the table, based on an offer of Arab recognition of Israel in exchange for an Israeli withdrawal from all lands it occupied in the 1967 Middle East War. Israel has expressed major reservations, but Prime Minister Ehud Olmert told Jordan's King Abdullah on Tuesday that he's ready to meet with Arab leaders in Israel or anywhere else to talk about the idea. Abdullah, in turn, asked Olmert to set a timetable for reaching a peace deal. Negotiations, however, are inconceivable if the Palestinians descend into a protracted civil war. This week's fighting was the worst since Hamas and Fatah agreed to share power in February. In all, 23 people have been killed and dozens wounded in three days of street fighting. Among the injured was a 10-year-old girl caught in the crossfire late Tuesday and critically wounded by a gunshot to the head, Palestinian rescue workers said. In the deadliest battle, Hamas gunmen fired rockets, rocket-propelled grenades and mortars early Tuesday at a training base for Fatah forces guarding the Karni cargo crossing with Israel. U.S. security experts had helped set up the base to improve security at Karni. After the initial attack, Hamas fired on Fatah reinforcements rushing to the scene, and one of the jeeps carrying Fatah fighters veered off the road and crashed. Hamas gunmen surrounded the vehicle and riddled it with gunfire, said one witness, who works in a nearby factory. "It was unbelievable. May God help us," said the man, who gave only his first name, Jamil, out of fear for his safety. Eight men were killed, hospital officials said. Fatah security men also came under fire as they tried to move the bodies away from the overturned jeep. Two Israeli helicopter gunships and three tanks moved toward the area, and Hamas fighters quickly withdrew. At one point, a major in the Palestinian Presidential Guard was killed by Israeli army fire as he tried to leave the crossing, security officials said. Before sundown, Hamas said it fired rockets at Sderot, an Israeli town near Gaza in retaliation for the Israeli attack. Residents counted more than 20 rockets. One rocket hit a house, seriously wounding an Israeli woman. It was the first time in three weeks that Hamas has claimed responsibility for a rocket barrage. Israeli Defense Minister Amir Peretz summoned army commanders for late-night consultations. Earlier, defense officials said Israel would not be dragged into the fighting. However, Israel closed Karni, the only route for cargo into Gaza. The closure means Gaza will soon run out of fuel for its power plant and electricity to most of the strip could be shut down by Wednesday, said Abdel Karim Abdeen, head of the Palestinian Energy Authority. The current fighting had many of the elements of previous Hamas-Fatah clashes: combatants kidnapped scores of rivals, set up roadblocks to search cars, took over rooftops of high-rises and often fired randomly in crowded residential areas. Around Abbas' seaside compound in Gaza City, security forces searched cars and inspected motorists' ID cards. They gave those with beards - a possible sign of Hamas support - an extra close look. Both sides have become more ruthless this time, with Fatah accused of an execution-style killing of two Hamas supporters Sunday and Hamas ambushing the Fatah jeep Tuesday. This might make it more difficult to negotiate a cease-fire and revive the coalition. At the core of the fighting is the unresolved power struggle between Hamas, which won parliamentary elections last year, and Abbas' Fatah, which has dominated Palestinian politics for four decades. Squeezed by an international aid boycott, Hamas realized it could not govern alone and brought Fatah into the government. But the two sides never worked out their differences, particularly over security. While the power-sharing deal largely halted factional fighting for three months, both sides continued to smuggle weapons through tunnels under the Egypt-Gaza border, preparing for the next round. The spark for the new fighting was deployment of 3,000 Fatah-allied members of the security forces in Gaza City last week, over Hamas' objections. Hamas has also bristled at Abbas' appointment of former Gaza strongman Mohammed Dahlan as his national security adviser. "Palestinian society is now similar to Lebanese society - always in civil war or on the verge of civil war," said analyst Hillel Frisch of Israel's Bar-Ilan University. "It's going to be cyclical: both sides know the tremendous costs, so they try to contain it, but the problem is simply left unresolved, and is probably unresolvable," he said. Both sides accused each other of waging a carefully orchestrated campaign to destroy the other. The National Security, a force loyal to Abbas, said Hamas is leading a military coup against the Palestinian security establishment. A Hamas spokesman, Abdel Latif Kanuah, said Fatah is involved in a U.S.-backed plot to overthrow Hamas, referring to U.S. backing for Abbas' elite forces, the Presidential Guards. Despite the unity government's shortcomings - and its failure to end the international embargo imposed on Hamas - it's unlikely Abbas will dissolve it and call early elections. Hamas would consider that an attempt to steal its election victory and likely oppose it violently. Karin Laub contributed to this report from Ramallah, West Bank. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. Send it to 7 Gray Television Group, Inc. - Copyright  2002-2007 - Designed and Powered by Clickability
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/K/KOREAS_NUCLEAR?SITE=WSAW&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	Send it to 7 May 15, 3:05 PM EDT North Korea says steps being taken on funds issue holding up nuclear disarmament Buy AP Photo Reprints North Korea's Missile Arsenal The Last Stalinist State Iran says it wants better ties with North Korea, but debts are an obstacle State Department says chances are slim for negotiating the return of USS Pueblo North Korea asks U.S. to allow an American bank to handle its funds frozen funds in Macau SEOUL, South Korea (AP) -- North Korea said Tuesday that steps were being taken to resolve a financial dispute that has blocked international efforts to halt its production of nuclear weapons in an indication of possible progress after weeks of delay. North Korea has refused to start implementing a February agreement to shut down its nuclear reactor - missing a deadline that passed a month ago - until it receives funds from a bank in the Chinese territory of Macau that had been frozen after the bank was blacklisted by the United States in 2005. North Korea's Foreign Ministry said it wanted to be able to "freely transfer funds." "For this, works are under way so that funds at Macau's Banco Delta Asia can be transferred to our bank accounts at a third country," the ministry said in a statement carried by the official Korean Central News Agency. The transfer has been held up because other banks have been reluctant to touch the $25 million in accounts that were freed with the blessing of the United States. Washington has said the money was tied to alleged money laundering and counterfeiting by North Korea. Authorities say North Korea could withdraw the sum in cash, but it apparently wants to retrieve it through a bank wire transfer to prove the funds are now clean. North Korea made the release of the money its main condition for halting its nuclear program, boycotting international arms negotiations for more than a year during which it conducted a weapons test in October. On Tuesday, North Korea rebutted allegations it said were made in U.S. media that it had been using the funds dispute as a delaying tactic, and it repeated its commitment to the disarmament deal. "Once the fund transfer is realized we are willing to immediately take steps to shut down our nuclear facility as agreed," the ministry said, adding it would invite U.N. nuclear inspectors and discuss the matter with the U.S. "Once the Feb. 13 agreement gets implemented, our commitment will be clearly shown through our actions," the ministry said. Earlier Tuesday, the U.S. ambassador to South Korea called on the North to act on its pledge. "It's time for North Korea to live up to its commitments," Alexander Vershbow told a security forum in Seoul. "The North has a lot to gain by ending its nuclear programs and getting rid of nuclear weapons." Rewards include "economic assistance, normalized relations with the United States and a permanent peace regime for the Korean peninsula. ... In short, a fundamental transformation of the (North's) relations with the rest of the world and an end to its pariah status," he said. The February deal calls for closing the reactor and disabling all of North Korea's nuclear facilities. Vershbow said Washington believes the action can be done in a "few months" and it hopes to achieve a complete denuclearization of North Korea before President Bush leaves office in January 2009. In Vienna, Gregory L. Schulte, the chief U.S. envoy to the International Atomic Energy Agency, said inspectors "are standing by to return to North Korea on short notice." The IAEA itself had no comment. Associated Press reporters Jae-soon Chang and Bo-mi Lim contributed to this report. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. Send it to 7 Gray Television Group, Inc. - Copyright  2002-2007 - Designed and Powered by Clickability
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/R/RICE_PUTIN?SITE=WSAW&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	Send it to 7 May 15, 6:12 PM EDT Rice, Putin say they'll tone down tough talk _ but deep rifts remain Buy AP Photo Reprints MOSCOW (AP) -- Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice won agreement Tuesday from Vladimir Putin to tone down Russian tough talk in an effort to improve strained ties, though neither side gave any ground on major disagreements over missile defense and Kosovo. Rice said no country could veto U.S. plans to set up a missile defense system in Europe that Russia vehemently opposes. She also said the United States still supports a U.N. plan for independence for the Serbian province of Kosovo, an idea Russia opposes. She and Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov were collegial at a news conference where they were peppered with questions about contentious issues. They stressed areas of cooperation, including the war on terror and efforts to halt the spread of weapons of mass destruction. "There will always be situations where our positions do not coincide," Lavrov said. He attributed talk of a "catastrophic" breakdown in relations to media speculation about a new Cold War emerging between the former foes. He said Russia still believes that the planned European missile defense would be a threat to it. Rice was in Moscow for two days seeking to repair damage to U.S.-Russian relations ahead of a planned meeting next month between Putin and President Bush at a summit of G-8 leaders in Germany. However, she gave no hint the United States was willing to back down on its plans for European missile defense. "The United States needs to be able to move forward to use technology to defend itself and we're going to do that," she said. "I don't think that anyone expects the United States to permit somehow a veto on American security interests." On Kosovo, Russia opposes independence for the province from Serbia and fears it could set a dangerous precedent for some restive Russian and former Russian republics. Rice and Lavrov said no progress had been made in bridging differences. "I can't see a ready solution," Rice said at the news conference with Lavrov. He said the same: "It was agreed to search for a solution on Kosovo that would be acceptable for all, but there is no such solution immediately in sight." Before their meeting, Rice criticized the Russians for recent negative comments by Putin and other officials that she said had obscured positive developments and cooperation. "We did talk about the need to keep the temperature down," Rice said after meeting Putin at his home outside Moscow. She described some remarks as "overheated rhetoric," in particular his recent reference in a speech to Nazi Germany, widely perceived as criticism of the United States. "We are going to have our differences, there is no doubt about that. There are going to be old scars to overcome, there is no doubt about that. ... But the relationship needs to be free of exaggerated rhetoric," she said. Asked whether she thought her message was received by the Russians, Rice replied: "I sure hope so, because I don't think you ever hear President Bush use certain kinds of rhetoric about Russia because he respects the partnership." She said she accepted Russia's explanation that Putin had been referring to "extremists." After the Putin-Rice meeting, Lavrov said: "The president supported the American side's understanding that it's necessary to tone down the rhetoric in public statements and concentrate on concrete business." But at the news conference, Lavrov appeared to step back, saying that "it would be more appropriate to consider the statements ... as an invitation to a more fair and frank dialogue." There has been growing tension about the U.S. missile defense plan and concern in Washington about Moscow's treatment of its neighbors and steps Putin has taken to consolidate power in the Kremlin - seen as democratic backsliding - as Russia prepares for presidential and parliamentary elections next year. A planned event at which Rice and Putin were to be photographed together and make brief remarks was canceled by the Kremlin and a senior Russian diplomat on Monday warned the U.S. not to try to go it alone in world affairs. In April, simmering Russian anger over U.S. plans to place missile defense components in Poland and the Czech Republic, both former Warsaw Pact members, boiled over despite Washington's pledges to cooperate with Moscow on the system. Last month, hours before the United States and its NATO allies met in Norway to discuss the matter, Putin threatened to suspend Russia's participation in a key treaty limiting military deployments in Europe. Russia views U.S. activity in its former sphere of influence with growing suspicion. Just last week, Putin denounced "disrespect for human life, claims to global exclusiveness and dictate, just as it was in the time of the Third Reich." Associated Press Writer Vladimir Isachenkov contributed to this report from Novo-Ogaryovo, Russia. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our Purchase this AP story for reprint. Send it to 7 Gray Television Group, Inc. - Copyright  2002-2007 - Designed and Powered by Clickability
