http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/washington/11spellings.html?ex=1336536000&en=5b92bff5be24b5ef&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Spellings Rejects Criticism on Student Loan Scandal - New York Times Spellings Rejects Criticism on Student Loan Scandal Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 WASHINGTON, May 10 — With scandal rattling the $85 billion industry, Education Secretary Margaret Spellings argued at a House hearing on Thursday that she lacked legal authority to clamp down on many abuses. Skip to next paragraph Doug Mills/The New York Times Education Secretary Margaret Spellings at a hearing on Thursday. Ms. Spellings faced pointed questioning at the hearing from Congressional Democrats, who accused her department of mismanagement and complacency. In about three hours of testimony before the House education committee, Ms. Spellings portrayed her department’s oversight of federal lending programs as vigorous, but said that the world of private lending, which has become increasingly important as college costs have outstripped federal loan programs, was mostly beyond her regulatory authority. She told the panel that the entire student loan system needed overhaul, saying, “The system is redundant, it’s byzantine and it’s broken.” Several Democrats, led by Representative George Miller, questioned her aggressively, asserting that she had regulatory power and moral influence that she had neglected to wield to stop loan companies from paying universities or giving gifts, trips, stock and consulting payments to the university financial aid officers who guide students toward loans. Mr. Miller, the California Democrat who heads the education committee, also took up a separate issue of questionable federal subsidy payments to lenders. He particularly criticized Ms. Spellings’s decision to ignore a recommendation of the department’s inspector general that she recover $278 million in federal subsidy payments improperly obtained by Nelnet, a lender based in Nebraska. He also said the Justice Department was now reviewing the inspector general’s September audit that found Nelnet ineligible for those payments. After the hearing, a Justice Department spokesman, Charles Miller, did not contradict Representative Miller’s assertions, but said, “We have no comment at this time.” Mr. Miller openly dismissed Ms. Spellings’s portrayal of her department’s monitoring of student lending as robust. He also criticized the department for its oversight of Reading First, a program designed to teach poor children to read that has been besieged by reports of conflicts of interest among Education Department consultants. “When I look at the whole body of evidence that has been amassed about both the student loan and Reading First programs, it is clear that — at a minimum — the Education Department’s oversight failures have been monumental,” he said. “We monitor these programs vigorously,” Ms. Spellings replied. “Who is monitoring?” Mr. Miller shot back. “Do they have blinders on?” Ms. Spellings countered that her critics were focusing too narrowly on scattered abuses in student lending, without offering much constructive help in changing the system, which she said was “crying out for reform.” “We cannot fix this broken enterprise by cherry-picking a few narrow issues to address,” she said. “We must peel back the layers, increase transparency, streamline the entire system and provide more aid to students.” Ms. Spellings said she would convene a meeting of other federal agencies that deal with lending issues, including the Federal Trade Commission, the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Federal Reserve, to forge a coherent federal response to improper relationships between lenders and universities. Lenders have come under scrutiny in recent months as New York’s attorney general, , has highlighted practices of lenders to get on university preferred lender lists, which students rely on in seeking loans. Mr. Cuomo on Thursday announced a new agreement with , a student loan company that engaged in some of the questionable practices, and the CIT Group, the company’s parent. Under the terms of the new agreement, CIT will pay $3 million to a national fund for educating high school students and their parents about financial aid. The company also signed a code of conduct developed by Mr. Cuomo, governing relationships between colleges and lenders. The department has also come under scrutiny from Congress for its failure to halt millions of dollars in subsidy payments to lenders that exploited loopholes to inflate their eligibility for subsidies on the student loans, including those paid to Nelnet. Mr. Miller and other lawmakers pressed Ms. Spellings, the lone witness, to explain her decision in January to allow Nelnet, a major contributor to Republican campaigns, to keep the $278 million. In exchange, Nelnet agreed not to bill for nearly $900 million in subsidies it believed it was eligible for. Ms. Spellings said that she thought the fact that the department had been paying the subsidies without question could have put it in legal jeopardy and that Nelnet might have prevailed in a lawsuit. “The reason that I settled was that there was a risk of nearly $900 million that this government was in danger of losing if we lost a lawsuit,” Ms. Spellings said. Representative John F. Tierney, Democrat of Massachusetts, said, “It boggles my mind — we allowed somebody to get away essentially with theft.” . Mr. Miller declined to answer questions after the hearing about any Justice Department action against Nelnet. The loan company itself hinted to investors in a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission earlier this year that the matter might not be closed, saying that “the company was informed by the department that a civil attorney with the Department of Justice has opened a file regarding this issue.” Ben Kiser, a Nelnet spokesman, said in an interview, “We are fully cooperating with the Department of Justice and are confident that there are no grounds for any action against Nelnet.” Jonathan D. Glater contributed reporting. More Articles in Washington &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Federal Student Loan Official Is Resigning Whistle-Blower on Student Aid Is Vindicated Education Dept. Starts Inquiry Into Possible Loan Conflicts Some Access to Student Finance Data Is Restored More Articles in Washington &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/nyregion/10kearny.html?ex=1336449600&en=805829c3dd50797d&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Parents and District Settle Dispute on Teacher&#8217;s Religious Remarks - New York Times Parents and District Settle Dispute on Teacher’s Religious Remarks Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 The Kearny Board of Education in and the parents of Matthew LaClair, a 17-year-old junior at Kearny High School, settled their dispute on Tuesday night about a teacher who proselytized in class. The settlement will include training for teachers and students about the separation of church and state and a public statement by the board praising Matthew for bringing the matter to its attention. Matthew recorded his history teacher, David Paszkiewicz, making comments in class in September, including remarks that only Christians had a place in heaven, that the Big Bang and evolution theories were not scientific and that dinosaurs were on Noah&#8217;s Ark. After the tapes became public, Matthew received a death threat and was shunned and bullied by some of his classmates, he has said. In the fall, the board reprimanded the teacher and later adopted a policy barring students from taping in class without a teacher&#8217;s permission. In February, Matthew&#8217;s parents, Paul and Debra LaClair, filed court papers on their son&#8217;s behalf saying that they intended to sue the district for violating his First Amendment and civil rights. They faulted the district for not protecting Matthew from harassment by other students and sought public corrections to some of the statements the teacher made in class. As part of the settlement, in which neither side admits wrongdoing, the New Jersey regional office of the will start training teachers and students in September about keeping church and state separate in public schools, and about &#8220;the distinction between the scientific theory of evolution and the religious doctrine of creationism.&#8221; Another part of the deal says the board will make a public statement commending Matthew for his &#8220;courage and integrity,&#8221; and the LaClairs will issue a statement commending the board. The settlement does not address the status of Mr. Paszkiewicz, 39, who has remained a history teacher at the high school. Mr. Paszkiewicz, who is also a Baptist youth pastor, had his classes switched in the middle of the school year so as not to have Matthew as a student. Demetrios K. Stratis, the lawyer for Mr. Paszkiewicz, said that his client was not involved in the settlement and knew nothing about it. &#8220;There are people who think my client is the victim,&#8221; Mr. Stratis said yesterday. Kenneth J. Lindenfelser, the lawyer for the Kearny school board, said the settlement created remedies that go further than any court has gone. &#8220;This may set the framework for how districts deal with these kinds of situations in the future,&#8221; he said. After the settlement passed on Tuesday night &#151; by a vote of 6-1, with two board members absent &#151; Matthew said in a phone interview, &#8220;I sincerely hope the board and everybody involved possibly learned something from this whole thing.&#8221; He said that he had learned plenty, &#8220;like how hard it can be sometimes to go against the grain, and that a lot of times, even though things may be tough, you still have to go through with it and finish it.&#8221; More Articles in New York Region &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Believing Scripture but Playing by Science's Rules Vashti McCollum, 93, Plaintiff In a Landmark Religion Suit National Briefing | West: California: Christian School's Lawsuit Can Proceed Don't Be Friends With Christians or Jews, Saudi Texts Say More Articles in New York Region &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer THE NEW YORK TIMES GUIDE TO ESSENTIAL KNOWLEDGE Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/education/10harvard.html	Harvard Task Force Calls for New Focus on Teaching and Not Just Research - New York Times Harvard Task Force Calls for New Focus on Teaching and Not Just Research Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 CAMBRIDGE, Mass., May 8 — Joshua Billings, 22, says he did not come to Skip to next paragraph Erik Jacobs for The New York Times Theda Skocpol, a dean, is urging a new approach to teaching and learning at Harvard. Erik Jacobs for The New York Times Joshua Billings, a Harvard senior, says many undergraduates there &#147;have little direct contact with professors, and are frustrated by poorly trained teaching fellows.&#148; “You’d be stupid if you came to Harvard for the teaching,” said Mr. Billings, who will graduate this spring and then go to Oxford as a Rhodes scholar. “You go to a liberal arts college for the teaching. You come to Harvard to be around some of the greatest minds on earth.” And that is pretty much how the thinking has gone here at Harvard for several decades. As one of the world’s most renowned research universities, Harvard is where academic superstars are continually expected to revolutionize their fields of knowledge. Cutting-edge research is emphasized, and recognized with tangible rewards: tenure, money, prestige, prizes, fame. But now, with strong support from the university’s interim president, Derek Bok, nine prominent professors are leading an effort to rethink the culture of undergraduate teaching and learning. Headed by Theda Skocpol, a social scientist, the group has issued a report calling for sweeping institutional change, including continuing evaluation and assessment of teaching and learning, and a proposal that teaching be weighed equally with contributions to research in annual salary adjustments. “It’s about the pursuit of excellence in teaching,” said Professor Skocpol, the dean of the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences. “We need to put our money where our mouth is. We can’t just mention excellent teachers occasionally. We have to notice and reward their efforts consistently.” is among the initiatives that Drew Gilpin Faust is expected to address when she takes over as president in July. “It’s well known that there are many other colleges where students are much more satisfied with their academic experience,” said Paul Buttenwieser, a psychiatrist and author who is a member of the Harvard Board of Overseers, and who favors the report. “Amherst is always pointed to. Harvard should be as great at teaching as Amherst.” As Professor Skocpol put it, “People at Harvard are concerned when they hear that some of our undergraduates can go through four years here and not know a faculty member well enough to get a letter of recommendation.” The effort here comes as the federal government and state accrediting agencies, as well as students and parents, press universities nationwide to provide more accountability for how well their faculties are teaching. “If we don’t do it ourselves,” President Bok said of the government pressure, “they’re going to make us do it their way.” The nation’s leading research universities have been looking for ways to better balance research and teaching for the past decade. Some institutions, like and Princeton, are known for their commitment to both. Columbia is reviewing its undergraduate curriculum, including evaluating the teaching. But because of Harvard’s standing, its effort is being closely watched around the country. “They’ve staked out a position that other people have to pay attention to,” said Robert Connor, president of the Teagle Foundation, which gives colleges and universities money to encourage innovation in teaching. Columbia is taking the Harvard report into account as it moves through its own review, said Alan Brinkley, Columbia’s provost. “If we’re going to ask some undergraduates to pay as much as $47,000 a year to come to these elite universities,” he said, “then we have an obligation to make sure they get a great education.” One of the most significant aspects of the report, Dr. Connor said, is the stature of the professors who worked on it. In addition to Professor Skocpol, the group includes Laurel Thatcher Ulrich, a Pulitzer-Prize-winning historian; Xiao-Li Meng, the chairman of the statistics department; and Eric Mazur, a physicist who is known for his innovative teaching as well as his research. The aim of the report is not to de-emphasize research in any way, but to bring about a greater institutional focus on teaching, Professor Ulrich said. “This is not a report that says we’re going to hire teachers who are not also scholars,” she said. “We want both.” Still, despite the perception that some of the greatest minds at Harvard are not all that committed to teaching, Professor Skocpol said the reality was more complicated. Next Article in Education (2 of 4) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. HARVARD REVERSES TENURE DECISION Next Article in Education (2 of 4) &#x00bb; A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer THE NEW YORK TIMES GUIDE TO ESSENTIAL KNOWLEDGE Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/nyregion/10school.html?ex=1336449600&en=2d6f1d374b0a7656&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Arabic School Finds Temporary Home in Brooklyn - New York Times Arabic School Finds Temporary Home in Brooklyn Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 The Department of Education has found a temporary site for the Khalil Gibran International Academy, a public school devoted to the study of Arabic language and culture that is scheduled to open in September. The school will be put in a building at 345 Dean Street in Boerum Hill, Brooklyn, that currently houses the Brooklyn High School of the Arts and the Math and Science Exploratory School, a middle school. Last Friday, the department canceled plans to place Khalil Gibran in the same building as Public School 282, an elementary school in Park Slope. The department had faced opposition from the parents at P.S. 282, who objected to sharing the space. And some conservative columnists had condemned the school, saying it could promote radical Islam. Khalil Gibran will open to up to 60 sixth graders, said Melody Meyer, a spokeswoman for the department. It will take up three classrooms in the building and share common spaces like the cafeteria. After two years, it will move to a more permanent site. &#8220;We are confident that the three schools can share space effectively,&#8221; Ms. Meyer said in a statement. &#8220;We met with the principals and parent leadership at both schools yesterday and will continue to work with both school communities to plan the best use of the space in the building to ensure the success of all three schools.&#8221; Robert W. Finley III, the principal of the Brooklyn High School of the Arts, said he was prepared to accept Khalil Gibran on a temporary basis. &#8220;I would be less than honorable if I were to object to this,&#8221; he said. &#8220;The Department of Education is the landlord. We know there is a shortage of classroom space in New York City and there is an increase in the number of new schools in September.&#8221; The principal at the Math and Science Exploratory School did not return calls seeking comment. , the president of the United Federation of Teachers , declared support for the Khalil Gibran school in a statement yesterday. &#8220;As long as there is adequate space in the building, this is an idea that should be welcomed,&#8221; she said. More Articles in New York Region &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. World Briefing | Europe: France: Education Official Fired For Opposing Muslim School Britain Proposes Allowing Schools to Forbid Full-Face Muslim Veils Graduation Held in Church Leads to a Suit More Articles in New York Region &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/nyregion/10kearny.html	Parents and District Settle Dispute on Teacher&#8217;s Religious Remarks - New York Times Parents and District Settle Dispute on Teacher’s Religious Remarks Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 The Kearny Board of Education in and the parents of Matthew LaClair, a 17-year-old junior at Kearny High School, settled their dispute on Tuesday night about a teacher who proselytized in class. The settlement will include training for teachers and students about the separation of church and state and a public statement by the board praising Matthew for bringing the matter to its attention. Matthew recorded his history teacher, David Paszkiewicz, making comments in class in September, including remarks that only Christians had a place in heaven, that the Big Bang and evolution theories were not scientific and that dinosaurs were on Noah&#8217;s Ark. After the tapes became public, Matthew received a death threat and was shunned and bullied by some of his classmates, he has said. In the fall, the board reprimanded the teacher and later adopted a policy barring students from taping in class without a teacher&#8217;s permission. In February, Matthew&#8217;s parents, Paul and Debra LaClair, filed court papers on their son&#8217;s behalf saying that they intended to sue the district for violating his First Amendment and civil rights. They faulted the district for not protecting Matthew from harassment by other students and sought public corrections to some of the statements the teacher made in class. As part of the settlement, in which neither side admits wrongdoing, the New Jersey regional office of the will start training teachers and students in September about keeping church and state separate in public schools, and about &#8220;the distinction between the scientific theory of evolution and the religious doctrine of creationism.&#8221; Another part of the deal says the board will make a public statement commending Matthew for his &#8220;courage and integrity,&#8221; and the LaClairs will issue a statement commending the board. The settlement does not address the status of Mr. Paszkiewicz, 39, who has remained a history teacher at the high school. Mr. Paszkiewicz, who is also a Baptist youth pastor, had his classes switched in the middle of the school year so as not to have Matthew as a student. Demetrios K. Stratis, the lawyer for Mr. Paszkiewicz, said that his client was not involved in the settlement and knew nothing about it. &#8220;There are people who think my client is the victim,&#8221; Mr. Stratis said yesterday. Kenneth J. Lindenfelser, the lawyer for the Kearny school board, said the settlement created remedies that go further than any court has gone. &#8220;This may set the framework for how districts deal with these kinds of situations in the future,&#8221; he said. After the settlement passed on Tuesday night &#151; by a vote of 6-1, with two board members absent &#151; Matthew said in a phone interview, &#8220;I sincerely hope the board and everybody involved possibly learned something from this whole thing.&#8221; He said that he had learned plenty, &#8220;like how hard it can be sometimes to go against the grain, and that a lot of times, even though things may be tough, you still have to go through with it and finish it.&#8221; More Articles in New York Region &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Believing Scripture but Playing by Science's Rules Vashti McCollum, 93, Plaintiff In a Landmark Religion Suit National Briefing | West: California: Christian School's Lawsuit Can Proceed Don't Be Friends With Christians or Jews, Saudi Texts Say More Articles in New York Region &#x00bb; A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer THE NEW YORK TIMES GUIDE TO ESSENTIAL KNOWLEDGE Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/education/11purdue.html?ex=1336536000&en=22f791849c0d2c18&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Purdue Will Reinvestigate Its Professor Who Claimed Desktop Fusion - New York Times Purdue Will Reinvestigate Its Professor Who Claimed Desktop Fusion Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 Three months after it cleared him of research misconduct, has begun a new inquiry into a professor who claims to have generated nuclear fusion in a desktop experiment, the university acknowledged yesterday. Skip to next paragraph Rusi P. Taleyarkhan was cleared of misconduct in an earlier inquiry. Researcher Cleared of Misconduct, but Case Is Still Murky The new inquiry goes beyond the focus of an earlier one, which looked at whether the professor, Rusi P. Taleyarkhan, improperly omitted himself as an author on two scientific papers. For the first time, a committee is examining whether the underlying research might have been fraudulent. Meanwhile, details of the earlier inquiry have emerged in a report by a Congressional subcommittee that reviewed Purdue’s actions. Although the earlier inquiry cleared Dr. Taleyarkhan of misconduct, it described “what might be characterized most favorably as severe lack of judgment” and said he had “abused his privilege as senior scientist,” according to the report from the Congressional subcommittee. Dr. Taleyarkhan said last night in an e-mail message that the subcommittee’s report represents “a gross travesty of justice.” He asked, “Where are the Jesse Jacksons and Al Sharptons of the Asian community during this episode that has caused this biased and openly one-sided smear campaign?” In scientific papers starting in 2002, Dr. Taleyarkhan, a professor of nuclear engineering, said the force of sound waves could collapse bubbles in a liquid and generate temperatures hot enough for hydrogen atoms to fuse and release energy, similar to how the sun makes heat and light. But other scientists have not been able to reproduce the process, called bubble fusion or sonofusion. Purdue’s handling of the controversy has been criticized inside and outside the university. “I think they fell short of what we would expect of them,” said Representative Brad Miller, a Democrat of North Carolina and the chairman of the investigations and oversight subcommittee of the House Committee on Science and Technology. The subcommittee, citing the need to ensure the integrity of federally financed research, requested copies of Purdue’s findings in March. On Wednesday, Mr. Miller sent to Martin C. Jischke, Purdue’s president, a letter and an accompanying memorandum by the subcommittee’s staff that strongly criticized Purdue. While the subcommittee did not release Purdue’s reports, the memorandum quotes from them and gives a clear chronology of Purdue’s actions. University administrators have said confidentiality requires them to withhold almost all information. The memorandum cites “numerous failures” in how Purdue addressed concerns about Dr. Taleyarkhan’s research. It says that Purdue did not follow its procedures, that the inquiry was not thorough and that the inquiry committee appeared to ignore the university’s definition of research misconduct. In a statement released last night, Purdue officials said they would address the concerns raised in the letter and the memorandum. Sally Mason, Purdue’s provost, said that soon after Dr. Taleyarkhan was cleared in February, the university received new accusations that merited a new inquiry. “We will proceed systematically and fairly,” Dr. Mason said, “and in the end, we will take whatever action is dictated by the evidence.” Up to now, Purdue has focused on two scientific papers published in 2005 that Dr. Taleyarkhan hailed as independent confirmation of his sonofusion results. But the experiments, performed in February 2004, were done using Dr. Taleyarkhan’s apparatus at Purdue, not at an independent laboratory, and one of the authors, Yiban Xu, joined Dr. Taleyarkhan’s group as a postdoctoral researcher a few months later. A second author, Adam Butt, a graduate student, also joined Dr. Taleyarkhan’s group. Further, in response to a fact-finding committee convened by the nuclear engineering school, Mr. Butt signed a statement that he did not participate in any of the experiments or the analysis of the data and that he had been added as an author to one of the papers a week before submission and was not aware that he was on the second paper until a week before it was presented at a conference. Dr. Xu declined to answer questions about the papers, but the committee noted similarities between them and several of Dr. Taleyarkhan’s. That fact-finding report was forwarded to Purdue administrators in February 2006. Purdue’s procedure for handling misconduct allegations is similar to other universities’ in calling for a two-step process: an inquiry committee evaluates the allegation, and if it finds sufficient evidence, then a full investigation is carried out. But instead of starting an inquiry, Purdue administrators asked first for a “review” of the allegations, a step that is not included in its misconduct policy. The review led to the appointment of an inquiry committee in July. According to the report from Congress, that committee in large part concurred with the findings of the nuclear engineering school’s fact-finding report, that it was “highly unlikely” that the experiment by Dr. Xu and Mr. Butt could be considered independent confirmation, and that Dr. Taleyarkhan had placed junior scientists in “precarious positions” to promote his research. But the inquiry deemed these to be failures of judgment rather than research misconduct and said an investigation was not needed. The Congressional subcommittee staff wrote, “It is difficult to understand how the inquiry committee could have then decided that Dr. Taleyarkhan’s actions did not constitute research misconduct,” which Purdue’s policy defines as “serious deviations” from commonly accepted academic practices. In his letter to Dr. Jischke, Mr. Miller expressed disappointment that the three members appointed to the new committee had served on earlier ones. He said Dr. Jischke had agreed to add one or more outside researchers. “I sincerely hope that the next inquiry will be conducted in a manner worthy of your great institution,” Mr. Miller wrote. Next Article in Education (1 of 4) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Congress Asks Purdue for Fusion Claim Findings Next Article in Education (1 of 4) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/education/11purdue.html	Purdue Will Reinvestigate Its Professor Who Claimed Desktop Fusion - New York Times Purdue Will Reinvestigate Its Professor Who Claimed Desktop Fusion Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 Three months after it cleared him of research misconduct, has begun a new inquiry into a professor who claims to have generated nuclear fusion in a desktop experiment, the university acknowledged yesterday. Skip to next paragraph Rusi P. Taleyarkhan was cleared of misconduct in an earlier inquiry. Researcher Cleared of Misconduct, but Case Is Still Murky The new inquiry goes beyond the focus of an earlier one, which looked at whether the professor, Rusi P. Taleyarkhan, improperly omitted himself as an author on two scientific papers. For the first time, a committee is examining whether the underlying research might have been fraudulent. Meanwhile, details of the earlier inquiry have emerged in a report by a Congressional subcommittee that reviewed Purdue’s actions. Although the earlier inquiry cleared Dr. Taleyarkhan of misconduct, it described “what might be characterized most favorably as severe lack of judgment” and said he had “abused his privilege as senior scientist,” according to the report from the Congressional subcommittee. Dr. Taleyarkhan said last night in an e-mail message that the subcommittee’s report represents “a gross travesty of justice.” He asked, “Where are the Jesse Jacksons and Al Sharptons of the Asian community during this episode that has caused this biased and openly one-sided smear campaign?” In scientific papers starting in 2002, Dr. Taleyarkhan, a professor of nuclear engineering, said the force of sound waves could collapse bubbles in a liquid and generate temperatures hot enough for hydrogen atoms to fuse and release energy, similar to how the sun makes heat and light. But other scientists have not been able to reproduce the process, called bubble fusion or sonofusion. Purdue’s handling of the controversy has been criticized inside and outside the university. “I think they fell short of what we would expect of them,” said Representative Brad Miller, a Democrat of North Carolina and the chairman of the investigations and oversight subcommittee of the House Committee on Science and Technology. The subcommittee, citing the need to ensure the integrity of federally financed research, requested copies of Purdue’s findings in March. On Wednesday, Mr. Miller sent to Martin C. Jischke, Purdue’s president, a letter and an accompanying memorandum by the subcommittee’s staff that strongly criticized Purdue. While the subcommittee did not release Purdue’s reports, the memorandum quotes from them and gives a clear chronology of Purdue’s actions. University administrators have said confidentiality requires them to withhold almost all information. The memorandum cites “numerous failures” in how Purdue addressed concerns about Dr. Taleyarkhan’s research. It says that Purdue did not follow its procedures, that the inquiry was not thorough and that the inquiry committee appeared to ignore the university’s definition of research misconduct. In a statement released last night, Purdue officials said they would address the concerns raised in the letter and the memorandum. Sally Mason, Purdue’s provost, said that soon after Dr. Taleyarkhan was cleared in February, the university received new accusations that merited a new inquiry. “We will proceed systematically and fairly,” Dr. Mason said, “and in the end, we will take whatever action is dictated by the evidence.” Up to now, Purdue has focused on two scientific papers published in 2005 that Dr. Taleyarkhan hailed as independent confirmation of his sonofusion results. But the experiments, performed in February 2004, were done using Dr. Taleyarkhan’s apparatus at Purdue, not at an independent laboratory, and one of the authors, Yiban Xu, joined Dr. Taleyarkhan’s group as a postdoctoral researcher a few months later. A second author, Adam Butt, a graduate student, also joined Dr. Taleyarkhan’s group. Further, in response to a fact-finding committee convened by the nuclear engineering school, Mr. Butt signed a statement that he did not participate in any of the experiments or the analysis of the data and that he had been added as an author to one of the papers a week before submission and was not aware that he was on the second paper until a week before it was presented at a conference. Dr. Xu declined to answer questions about the papers, but the committee noted similarities between them and several of Dr. Taleyarkhan’s. That fact-finding report was forwarded to Purdue administrators in February 2006. Purdue’s procedure for handling misconduct allegations is similar to other universities’ in calling for a two-step process: an inquiry committee evaluates the allegation, and if it finds sufficient evidence, then a full investigation is carried out. But instead of starting an inquiry, Purdue administrators asked first for a “review” of the allegations, a step that is not included in its misconduct policy. The review led to the appointment of an inquiry committee in July. According to the report from Congress, that committee in large part concurred with the findings of the nuclear engineering school’s fact-finding report, that it was “highly unlikely” that the experiment by Dr. Xu and Mr. Butt could be considered independent confirmation, and that Dr. Taleyarkhan had placed junior scientists in “precarious positions” to promote his research. But the inquiry deemed these to be failures of judgment rather than research misconduct and said an investigation was not needed. The Congressional subcommittee staff wrote, “It is difficult to understand how the inquiry committee could have then decided that Dr. Taleyarkhan’s actions did not constitute research misconduct,” which Purdue’s policy defines as “serious deviations” from commonly accepted academic practices. In his letter to Dr. Jischke, Mr. Miller expressed disappointment that the three members appointed to the new committee had served on earlier ones. He said Dr. Jischke had agreed to add one or more outside researchers. “I sincerely hope that the next inquiry will be conducted in a manner worthy of your great institution,” Mr. Miller wrote. Next Article in Education (1 of 4) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Congress Asks Purdue for Fusion Claim Findings Next Article in Education (1 of 4) &#x00bb; A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Snowy Owl, Plate 121 Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/education/10harvard.html?ex=1336449600&en=b78842d9d28a84c8&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Harvard Task Force Calls for New Focus on Teaching and Not Just Research - New York Times Harvard Task Force Calls for New Focus on Teaching and Not Just Research Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 CAMBRIDGE, Mass., May 8 — Joshua Billings, 22, says he did not come to Skip to next paragraph Erik Jacobs for The New York Times Theda Skocpol, a dean, is urging a new approach to teaching and learning at Harvard. Erik Jacobs for The New York Times Joshua Billings, a Harvard senior, says many undergraduates there &#147;have little direct contact with professors, and are frustrated by poorly trained teaching fellows.&#148; “You’d be stupid if you came to Harvard for the teaching,” said Mr. Billings, who will graduate this spring and then go to Oxford as a Rhodes scholar. “You go to a liberal arts college for the teaching. You come to Harvard to be around some of the greatest minds on earth.” And that is pretty much how the thinking has gone here at Harvard for several decades. As one of the world’s most renowned research universities, Harvard is where academic superstars are continually expected to revolutionize their fields of knowledge. Cutting-edge research is emphasized, and recognized with tangible rewards: tenure, money, prestige, prizes, fame. But now, with strong support from the university’s interim president, Derek Bok, nine prominent professors are leading an effort to rethink the culture of undergraduate teaching and learning. Headed by Theda Skocpol, a social scientist, the group has issued a report calling for sweeping institutional change, including continuing evaluation and assessment of teaching and learning, and a proposal that teaching be weighed equally with contributions to research in annual salary adjustments. “It’s about the pursuit of excellence in teaching,” said Professor Skocpol, the dean of the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences. “We need to put our money where our mouth is. We can’t just mention excellent teachers occasionally. We have to notice and reward their efforts consistently.” is among the initiatives that Drew Gilpin Faust is expected to address when she takes over as president in July. “It’s well known that there are many other colleges where students are much more satisfied with their academic experience,” said Paul Buttenwieser, a psychiatrist and author who is a member of the Harvard Board of Overseers, and who favors the report. “Amherst is always pointed to. Harvard should be as great at teaching as Amherst.” As Professor Skocpol put it, “People at Harvard are concerned when they hear that some of our undergraduates can go through four years here and not know a faculty member well enough to get a letter of recommendation.” The effort here comes as the federal government and state accrediting agencies, as well as students and parents, press universities nationwide to provide more accountability for how well their faculties are teaching. “If we don’t do it ourselves,” President Bok said of the government pressure, “they’re going to make us do it their way.” The nation’s leading research universities have been looking for ways to better balance research and teaching for the past decade. Some institutions, like and Princeton, are known for their commitment to both. Columbia is reviewing its undergraduate curriculum, including evaluating the teaching. But because of Harvard’s standing, its effort is being closely watched around the country. “They’ve staked out a position that other people have to pay attention to,” said Robert Connor, president of the Teagle Foundation, which gives colleges and universities money to encourage innovation in teaching. Columbia is taking the Harvard report into account as it moves through its own review, said Alan Brinkley, Columbia’s provost. “If we’re going to ask some undergraduates to pay as much as $47,000 a year to come to these elite universities,” he said, “then we have an obligation to make sure they get a great education.” One of the most significant aspects of the report, Dr. Connor said, is the stature of the professors who worked on it. In addition to Professor Skocpol, the group includes Laurel Thatcher Ulrich, a Pulitzer-Prize-winning historian; Xiao-Li Meng, the chairman of the statistics department; and Eric Mazur, a physicist who is known for his innovative teaching as well as his research. The aim of the report is not to de-emphasize research in any way, but to bring about a greater institutional focus on teaching, Professor Ulrich said. “This is not a report that says we’re going to hire teachers who are not also scholars,” she said. “We want both.” Still, despite the perception that some of the greatest minds at Harvard are not all that committed to teaching, Professor Skocpol said the reality was more complicated. Next Article in Education (2 of 4) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. HARVARD REVERSES TENURE DECISION Next Article in Education (2 of 4) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/nyregion/10school.html	Arabic School Finds Temporary Home in Brooklyn - New York Times Arabic School Finds Temporary Home in Brooklyn Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 The Department of Education has found a temporary site for the Khalil Gibran International Academy, a public school devoted to the study of Arabic language and culture that is scheduled to open in September. The school will be put in a building at 345 Dean Street in Boerum Hill, Brooklyn, that currently houses the Brooklyn High School of the Arts and the Math and Science Exploratory School, a middle school. Last Friday, the department canceled plans to place Khalil Gibran in the same building as Public School 282, an elementary school in Park Slope. The department had faced opposition from the parents at P.S. 282, who objected to sharing the space. And some conservative columnists had condemned the school, saying it could promote radical Islam. Khalil Gibran will open to up to 60 sixth graders, said Melody Meyer, a spokeswoman for the department. It will take up three classrooms in the building and share common spaces like the cafeteria. After two years, it will move to a more permanent site. &#8220;We are confident that the three schools can share space effectively,&#8221; Ms. Meyer said in a statement. &#8220;We met with the principals and parent leadership at both schools yesterday and will continue to work with both school communities to plan the best use of the space in the building to ensure the success of all three schools.&#8221; Robert W. Finley III, the principal of the Brooklyn High School of the Arts, said he was prepared to accept Khalil Gibran on a temporary basis. &#8220;I would be less than honorable if I were to object to this,&#8221; he said. &#8220;The Department of Education is the landlord. We know there is a shortage of classroom space in New York City and there is an increase in the number of new schools in September.&#8221; The principal at the Math and Science Exploratory School did not return calls seeking comment. , the president of the United Federation of Teachers , declared support for the Khalil Gibran school in a statement yesterday. &#8220;As long as there is adequate space in the building, this is an idea that should be welcomed,&#8221; she said. More Articles in New York Region &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. World Briefing | Europe: France: Education Official Fired For Opposing Muslim School Britain Proposes Allowing Schools to Forbid Full-Face Muslim Veils Graduation Held in Church Leads to a Suit More Articles in New York Region &#x00bb; A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/washington/10loans.html?ex=1336449600&en=526379d7195b7e7f&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	House Passes Ban on Gifts From Student Lenders - New York Times House Passes Ban on Gifts From Student Lenders Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 , May 9 — The House of Representatives voted overwhelmingly Wednesday to ban gifts and payments by companies to universities, showing bipartisan resolve to clean up the $85 billion industry. The vote, 414 to 3, demonstrated how politically potent the issue of paying for college has become at a time when tuition is steadily rising and millions of students depend on borrowing to finance college. “With this vote,” said Representative George Miller, the California Democrat who leads the House education committee, “the House has taken a huge step in the right direction to put a stop to those practices and make sure that the student loan programs operate on the level, in the best interests of students and families trying to pay for college.” The bill passed a day before Education Secretary Margaret Spellings was scheduled to testify before the House education committee about oversight of the industry. It comes in the wake of revelations that lenders paid universities money contingent on student loan volume, gave gifts to the financial aid administrators whom students rely on to recommend lenders, and hired financial aid officials as paid consultants. The nation’s four largest student lenders and at least 22 colleges have already signed on to a code of conduct developed by Attorney General Mr. Miller was joined by the ranking Republican on his committee, Representative Howard P. McKeon of California, in promoting the bill. “We’re stepping up today for a single, fundamental reason,” Mr. McKeon said before the vote, “to ensure our nation’s financial aid system continues to serve the needs of our students.” But he also urged that Congress be careful “not to overreach.” The bill has bipartisan support in the Senate, said Senator , Democrat of Massachusetts and chairman of the education committee. A senior Education Department official said that the agency was prepared to move quickly to draft regulations to enforce the bill. Ms. Spellings is expected to face tough questions Thursday about the department’s policing of the industry, as well as about enforcement of its own internal policies on conflicts of interest after reports that an official with oversight over the student loan database held stock in a student loan company. Ms. Spellings’s chief of staff, David Dunn, said in an interview that the secretary wanted to “set the record straight” and show that the department had taken the steps it could to regulate lenders. Ms. Spellings has convened a task force that is to make recommendations by the end of May on how to regulate the lists of recommended lenders at university aid offices. Ms. Spellings is also expected to face questions about the oversight of Reading First, a program designed to teach poor children to read by third grade. The department’s inspector general, John P. Higgins, has issued reports finding conflicts of interest, cronyism and bias in how officials and private consultants operated the program and awarded grants. Mr. Kennedy, in a report, added new detail Wednesday on how four officials contracted by the education agency to advise states on buying reading materials had lucrative ties with publishers. Edward Kame’enui, head of the department’s western technical assistance center in Oregon from 2002 through May 2005, earned hundreds of thousands of dollars in royalties from Pearson/Scott Foresman from 2001 to 2006, the report said. It also said that Douglas Carnine, who replaced Dr. Kame’enui in 2005, also earned royalties — $168,470 from McGraw-Hill, Houghton Mifflin and Pearson last year. Joseph Torgesen, who advised Eastern states about materials, and Sharon Vaughn, who advised Central states, also received thousands of dollars in royalties from educational publishers while representing the department, the report said. Katherine McLane, a department spokeswoman, said: “The department is deeply concerned about conflicts of interest and takes the allegations contained in Senator Kennedy’s report very seriously. “We are studying this report to determine if further actions are necessary and will act aggressively if any wrongdoing is found.” More Articles in Washington &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. House Democrats May Seek Short-Term Financing of War Lawmaker Tied to Inquiries Gives Up Seat on Committee House Votes to Give the Capital a Full Voice in Congress THE REACH OF WAR: CONGRESSIONAL MEMO; Action on Troop Reshapes Bush's Debate With Congress More Articles in Washington &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/washington/10loans.html	House Passes Ban on Gifts From Student Lenders - New York Times House Passes Ban on Gifts From Student Lenders Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 , May 9 — The House of Representatives voted overwhelmingly Wednesday to ban gifts and payments by companies to universities, showing bipartisan resolve to clean up the $85 billion industry. The vote, 414 to 3, demonstrated how politically potent the issue of paying for college has become at a time when tuition is steadily rising and millions of students depend on borrowing to finance college. “With this vote,” said Representative George Miller, the California Democrat who leads the House education committee, “the House has taken a huge step in the right direction to put a stop to those practices and make sure that the student loan programs operate on the level, in the best interests of students and families trying to pay for college.” The bill passed a day before Education Secretary Margaret Spellings was scheduled to testify before the House education committee about oversight of the industry. It comes in the wake of revelations that lenders paid universities money contingent on student loan volume, gave gifts to the financial aid administrators whom students rely on to recommend lenders, and hired financial aid officials as paid consultants. The nation’s four largest student lenders and at least 22 colleges have already signed on to a code of conduct developed by Attorney General Mr. Miller was joined by the ranking Republican on his committee, Representative Howard P. McKeon of California, in promoting the bill. “We’re stepping up today for a single, fundamental reason,” Mr. McKeon said before the vote, “to ensure our nation’s financial aid system continues to serve the needs of our students.” But he also urged that Congress be careful “not to overreach.” The bill has bipartisan support in the Senate, said Senator , Democrat of Massachusetts and chairman of the education committee. A senior Education Department official said that the agency was prepared to move quickly to draft regulations to enforce the bill. Ms. Spellings is expected to face tough questions Thursday about the department’s policing of the industry, as well as about enforcement of its own internal policies on conflicts of interest after reports that an official with oversight over the student loan database held stock in a student loan company. Ms. Spellings’s chief of staff, David Dunn, said in an interview that the secretary wanted to “set the record straight” and show that the department had taken the steps it could to regulate lenders. Ms. Spellings has convened a task force that is to make recommendations by the end of May on how to regulate the lists of recommended lenders at university aid offices. Ms. Spellings is also expected to face questions about the oversight of Reading First, a program designed to teach poor children to read by third grade. The department’s inspector general, John P. Higgins, has issued reports finding conflicts of interest, cronyism and bias in how officials and private consultants operated the program and awarded grants. Mr. Kennedy, in a report, added new detail Wednesday on how four officials contracted by the education agency to advise states on buying reading materials had lucrative ties with publishers. Edward Kame’enui, head of the department’s western technical assistance center in Oregon from 2002 through May 2005, earned hundreds of thousands of dollars in royalties from Pearson/Scott Foresman from 2001 to 2006, the report said. It also said that Douglas Carnine, who replaced Dr. Kame’enui in 2005, also earned royalties — $168,470 from McGraw-Hill, Houghton Mifflin and Pearson last year. Joseph Torgesen, who advised Eastern states about materials, and Sharon Vaughn, who advised Central states, also received thousands of dollars in royalties from educational publishers while representing the department, the report said. Katherine McLane, a department spokeswoman, said: “The department is deeply concerned about conflicts of interest and takes the allegations contained in Senator Kennedy’s report very seriously. “We are studying this report to determine if further actions are necessary and will act aggressively if any wrongdoing is found.” More Articles in Washington &#x00bb; Love the Op-Ed columnists?  Try TimesSelect free for 14-days. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. House Democrats May Seek Short-Term Financing of War Lawmaker Tied to Inquiries Gives Up Seat on Committee House Votes to Give the Capital a Full Voice in Congress THE REACH OF WAR: CONGRESSIONAL MEMO; Action on Troop Reshapes Bush's Debate With Congress More Articles in Washington &#x00bb; A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer The Skating Pond, 1862 (Negative No. 76280) Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/pages/education/index.html?partner=rssnyt	Education News - All Headlines - New York Times Doug Mills/The New York Times Education Secretary Margaret Spellings at a hearing on Thursday. Spellings Rejects Criticism on Student Loan Scandal Education Secretary Margaret Spellings argued at a House hearing that she lacked legal authority to clamp down on many abuses in the student loan industry. Purdue Will Reinvestigate Its Professor Who Claimed Desktop Fusion Purdue University has begun a new inquiry into a professor who claims to have generated nuclear fusion in a desktop experiment. House Passes Ban on Gifts From Student Lenders By SAM DILLON and JONATHAN D. GLATER The House of Representatives showed bipartisan resolve to clean up the $85 billion student loan industry. Harvard Task Force Calls for New Focus on Teaching and Not Just Research Nine prominent professors are leading an effort to rethink the culture of undergraduate teaching and learning at Harvard. Parents and District Settle Dispute on Teacher’s Religious Remarks The Kearny Board of Education in New Jersey and the parents of a Kearny High School student settled their dispute about a teacher who proselytized in class. Arabic School Finds Temporary Home in Brooklyn A public school devoted to the study of Arabic language and culture will be put in a building in Boerum Hill, Brooklyn. Federal Student Loan Official Is Resigning On Education: English Language Learners as Pawns in the School System’s Overhaul Students Search for the Words to Go With Their Cultural Pride Whistle-Blower on Student Aid Is Vindicated American Album: Torn From Parents, a Top Speller Vents His Anger, Letter by Letter Walking on the Wild Side of a Montana University School Financing: Increased State Aid or Not, Districts Seek Higher Taxes A Liberal Case for Gun Rights Sways Judiciary Student at Risk? He Can Help. He’s Been There. Money Falls Short of Plans to Clear Bus Air N.Y. Schools Seek Higher Taxes Despite Extra Aid Prominent Education Reformer to Lead New Orleans Schools Students May Have Paid Cash to Change Grades, College Says Education Dept. Starts Inquiry Into Possible Loan Conflicts Almost half of all undergraduates go to a community college, making the two-year experience as much the norm as not. Go to Special Section » 50 Years Later, Little Rock Can&#8217;t Escape Race An Arkansas school district is still riven by racial conflict, and some question how much progress has been made. The achieving, ambitious and confident students of Newton North High School. Middle School: The Critical Years For Students, Teachers and Parents Bring today's Times into your classroom or home with daily lesson plans, news quizzes, thematic crosswords and more. Featured Resource: Class Matters Find the right camp or school for your child In the Education Marketplace: View all Camp Listings View all School Listings Post Your Ad Now! Browse College and University Topics California Institute of Technology City College of New York City University of New York Fashion Institute of Technology Georgia Institute of Technology John Jay College of Criminal Justice Manhattan School of Music Massachusetts Institute of Technology New Jersey Institute of Technology North Carolina State University Rutgers, The State University State University of New York State University of New York at Albany State University of New York at Purchase State University of New York at Stony Brook Texas A and M University United States Air Force Academy United States Naval Academy United States Military Academy University of North Carolina University of Notre Dame University of Rhode Island University of South Carolina University of Southern California Xavier University of Ohio MOST POPULAR - U.S. Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Harvard Task Force Calls for New Focus on Teaching and Not Just Research Wildfire Threatens a California Resort Island New Mayor but Familiar Issues on Dallas&#8217;s Horizon Wildfire Threatens a Southern California Resort Island Europeans Press Wolfowitz to Quit as Bank Chief Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Purdue Will Reinvestigate Its Professor Who Claimed Desktop Fusion Wildfire Threatens a California Resort Island U.S. Queries Filmmaker on Cuba Trip for Movie Go to Complete List » Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus A Liberal Case for Gun Rights Helps Sway Judiciary Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix 6 Arrested in Plot to Attack Fort Dix Critic of Corps of Engineers Says Levee Repairs for New Orleans Show Signs of Flaws College Loan Official Resigns 50 Years Later, Little Rock Can't Escape Race Agency Affirms Mandates for Driver's Licenses Harvard Task Force Calls for New Focus on Teaching and Not Just Research Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer THE NEW YORK TIMES GUIDE TO ESSENTIAL KNOWLEDGE Tell us your nursing story. Inspiration & lessons. Post a job online today! Compare camps and schools to find the right fit for your child. Browse movie reviews from 1913. Buy, sell or rent a home. Photos, fine art, books and more. The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/pages/education/index.html	Education News - All Headlines - New York Times Doug Mills/The New York Times Education Secretary Margaret Spellings at a hearing on Thursday. Spellings Rejects Criticism on Student Loan Scandal Education Secretary Margaret Spellings argued at a House hearing that she lacked legal authority to clamp down on many abuses in the student loan industry. Purdue Will Reinvestigate Its Professor Who Claimed Desktop Fusion Purdue University has begun a new inquiry into a professor who claims to have generated nuclear fusion in a desktop experiment. House Passes Ban on Gifts From Student Lenders By SAM DILLON and JONATHAN D. GLATER The House of Representatives showed bipartisan resolve to clean up the $85 billion student loan industry. Harvard Task Force Calls for New Focus on Teaching and Not Just Research Nine prominent professors are leading an effort to rethink the culture of undergraduate teaching and learning at Harvard. Parents and District Settle Dispute on Teacher’s Religious Remarks The Kearny Board of Education in New Jersey and the parents of a Kearny High School student settled their dispute about a teacher who proselytized in class. Arabic School Finds Temporary Home in Brooklyn A public school devoted to the study of Arabic language and culture will be put in a building in Boerum Hill, Brooklyn. Federal Student Loan Official Is Resigning On Education: English Language Learners as Pawns in the School System’s Overhaul Students Search for the Words to Go With Their Cultural Pride Whistle-Blower on Student Aid Is Vindicated American Album: Torn From Parents, a Top Speller Vents His Anger, Letter by Letter Walking on the Wild Side of a Montana University School Financing: Increased State Aid or Not, Districts Seek Higher Taxes A Liberal Case for Gun Rights Sways Judiciary Student at Risk? He Can Help. He’s Been There. Money Falls Short of Plans to Clear Bus Air N.Y. Schools Seek Higher Taxes Despite Extra Aid Prominent Education Reformer to Lead New Orleans Schools Students May Have Paid Cash to Change Grades, College Says Education Dept. Starts Inquiry Into Possible Loan Conflicts Almost half of all undergraduates go to a community college, making the two-year experience as much the norm as not. Go to Special Section » 50 Years Later, Little Rock Can&#8217;t Escape Race An Arkansas school district is still riven by racial conflict, and some question how much progress has been made. The achieving, ambitious and confident students of Newton North High School. Middle School: The Critical Years For Students, Teachers and Parents Bring today's Times into your classroom or home with daily lesson plans, news quizzes, thematic crosswords and more. Featured Resource: Class Matters Find the right camp or school for your child In the Education Marketplace: View all Camp Listings View all School Listings Post Your Ad Now! Browse College and University Topics California Institute of Technology City College of New York City University of New York Fashion Institute of Technology Georgia Institute of Technology John Jay College of Criminal Justice Manhattan School of Music Massachusetts Institute of Technology New Jersey Institute of Technology North Carolina State University Rutgers, The State University State University of New York State University of New York at Albany State University of New York at Purchase State University of New York at Stony Brook Texas A and M University United States Air Force Academy United States Naval Academy United States Military Academy University of North Carolina University of Notre Dame University of Rhode Island University of South Carolina University of Southern California Xavier University of Ohio MOST POPULAR - U.S. Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Harvard Task Force Calls for New Focus on Teaching and Not Just Research Wildfire Threatens a California Resort Island New Mayor but Familiar Issues on Dallas&#8217;s Horizon Wildfire Threatens a Southern California Resort Island Europeans Press Wolfowitz to Quit as Bank Chief Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Purdue Will Reinvestigate Its Professor Who Claimed Desktop Fusion Wildfire Threatens a California Resort Island U.S. Queries Filmmaker on Cuba Trip for Movie Go to Complete List » Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus A Liberal Case for Gun Rights Helps Sway Judiciary Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix 6 Arrested in Plot to Attack Fort Dix Critic of Corps of Engineers Says Levee Repairs for New Orleans Show Signs of Flaws College Loan Official Resigns 50 Years Later, Little Rock Can't Escape Race Agency Affirms Mandates for Driver's Licenses Harvard Task Force Calls for New Focus on Teaching and Not Just Research Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer THE NEW YORK TIMES GUIDE TO ESSENTIAL KNOWLEDGE Tell us your nursing story. Inspiration & lessons. Post a job online today! Compare camps and schools to find the right fit for your child. Browse movie reviews from 1913. Buy, sell or rent a home. Photos, fine art, books and more. The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/washington/11spellings.html	Spellings Rejects Criticism on Student Loan Scandal - New York Times Spellings Rejects Criticism on Student Loan Scandal Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 WASHINGTON, May 10 — With scandal rattling the $85 billion industry, Education Secretary Margaret Spellings argued at a House hearing on Thursday that she lacked legal authority to clamp down on many abuses. Skip to next paragraph Doug Mills/The New York Times Education Secretary Margaret Spellings at a hearing on Thursday. Ms. Spellings faced pointed questioning at the hearing from Congressional Democrats, who accused her department of mismanagement and complacency. In about three hours of testimony before the House education committee, Ms. Spellings portrayed her department’s oversight of federal lending programs as vigorous, but said that the world of private lending, which has become increasingly important as college costs have outstripped federal loan programs, was mostly beyond her regulatory authority. She told the panel that the entire student loan system needed overhaul, saying, “The system is redundant, it’s byzantine and it’s broken.” Several Democrats, led by Representative George Miller, questioned her aggressively, asserting that she had regulatory power and moral influence that she had neglected to wield to stop loan companies from paying universities or giving gifts, trips, stock and consulting payments to the university financial aid officers who guide students toward loans. Mr. Miller, the California Democrat who heads the education committee, also took up a separate issue of questionable federal subsidy payments to lenders. He particularly criticized Ms. Spellings’s decision to ignore a recommendation of the department’s inspector general that she recover $278 million in federal subsidy payments improperly obtained by Nelnet, a lender based in Nebraska. He also said the Justice Department was now reviewing the inspector general’s September audit that found Nelnet ineligible for those payments. After the hearing, a Justice Department spokesman, Charles Miller, did not contradict Representative Miller’s assertions, but said, “We have no comment at this time.” Mr. Miller openly dismissed Ms. Spellings’s portrayal of her department’s monitoring of student lending as robust. He also criticized the department for its oversight of Reading First, a program designed to teach poor children to read that has been besieged by reports of conflicts of interest among Education Department consultants. “When I look at the whole body of evidence that has been amassed about both the student loan and Reading First programs, it is clear that — at a minimum — the Education Department’s oversight failures have been monumental,” he said. “We monitor these programs vigorously,” Ms. Spellings replied. “Who is monitoring?” Mr. Miller shot back. “Do they have blinders on?” Ms. Spellings countered that her critics were focusing too narrowly on scattered abuses in student lending, without offering much constructive help in changing the system, which she said was “crying out for reform.” “We cannot fix this broken enterprise by cherry-picking a few narrow issues to address,” she said. “We must peel back the layers, increase transparency, streamline the entire system and provide more aid to students.” Ms. Spellings said she would convene a meeting of other federal agencies that deal with lending issues, including the Federal Trade Commission, the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Federal Reserve, to forge a coherent federal response to improper relationships between lenders and universities. Lenders have come under scrutiny in recent months as New York’s attorney general, , has highlighted practices of lenders to get on university preferred lender lists, which students rely on in seeking loans. Mr. Cuomo on Thursday announced a new agreement with , a student loan company that engaged in some of the questionable practices, and the CIT Group, the company’s parent. Under the terms of the new agreement, CIT will pay $3 million to a national fund for educating high school students and their parents about financial aid. The company also signed a code of conduct developed by Mr. Cuomo, governing relationships between colleges and lenders. The department has also come under scrutiny from Congress for its failure to halt millions of dollars in subsidy payments to lenders that exploited loopholes to inflate their eligibility for subsidies on the student loans, including those paid to Nelnet. Mr. Miller and other lawmakers pressed Ms. Spellings, the lone witness, to explain her decision in January to allow Nelnet, a major contributor to Republican campaigns, to keep the $278 million. In exchange, Nelnet agreed not to bill for nearly $900 million in subsidies it believed it was eligible for. Ms. Spellings said that she thought the fact that the department had been paying the subsidies without question could have put it in legal jeopardy and that Nelnet might have prevailed in a lawsuit. “The reason that I settled was that there was a risk of nearly $900 million that this government was in danger of losing if we lost a lawsuit,” Ms. Spellings said. Representative John F. Tierney, Democrat of Massachusetts, said, “It boggles my mind — we allowed somebody to get away essentially with theft.” . Mr. Miller declined to answer questions after the hearing about any Justice Department action against Nelnet. The loan company itself hinted to investors in a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission earlier this year that the matter might not be closed, saying that “the company was informed by the department that a civil attorney with the Department of Justice has opened a file regarding this issue.” Ben Kiser, a Nelnet spokesman, said in an interview, “We are fully cooperating with the Department of Justice and are confident that there are no grounds for any action against Nelnet.” Jonathan D. Glater contributed reporting. More Articles in Washington &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Federal Student Loan Official Is Resigning Whistle-Blower on Student Aid Is Vindicated Education Dept. Starts Inquiry Into Possible Loan Conflicts Some Access to Student Finance Data Is Restored More Articles in Washington &#x00bb; A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer The Coal Cart and The Towers, circa 1910 Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/washington/11spellings.html?ex=1336536000&en=5b92bff5be24b5ef&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Spellings Rejects Criticism on Student Loan Scandal - New York Times Spellings Rejects Criticism on Student Loan Scandal Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 WASHINGTON, May 10 — With scandal rattling the $85 billion industry, Education Secretary Margaret Spellings argued at a House hearing on Thursday that she lacked legal authority to clamp down on many abuses. Skip to next paragraph Doug Mills/The New York Times Education Secretary Margaret Spellings at a hearing on Thursday. Ms. Spellings faced pointed questioning at the hearing from Congressional Democrats, who accused her department of mismanagement and complacency. In about three hours of testimony before the House education committee, Ms. Spellings portrayed her department’s oversight of federal lending programs as vigorous, but said that the world of private lending, which has become increasingly important as college costs have outstripped federal loan programs, was mostly beyond her regulatory authority. She told the panel that the entire student loan system needed overhaul, saying, “The system is redundant, it’s byzantine and it’s broken.” Several Democrats, led by Representative George Miller, questioned her aggressively, asserting that she had regulatory power and moral influence that she had neglected to wield to stop loan companies from paying universities or giving gifts, trips, stock and consulting payments to the university financial aid officers who guide students toward loans. Mr. Miller, the California Democrat who heads the education committee, also took up a separate issue of questionable federal subsidy payments to lenders. He particularly criticized Ms. Spellings’s decision to ignore a recommendation of the department’s inspector general that she recover $278 million in federal subsidy payments improperly obtained by Nelnet, a lender based in Nebraska. He also said the Justice Department was now reviewing the inspector general’s September audit that found Nelnet ineligible for those payments. After the hearing, a Justice Department spokesman, Charles Miller, did not contradict Representative Miller’s assertions, but said, “We have no comment at this time.” Mr. Miller openly dismissed Ms. Spellings’s portrayal of her department’s monitoring of student lending as robust. He also criticized the department for its oversight of Reading First, a program designed to teach poor children to read that has been besieged by reports of conflicts of interest among Education Department consultants. “When I look at the whole body of evidence that has been amassed about both the student loan and Reading First programs, it is clear that — at a minimum — the Education Department’s oversight failures have been monumental,” he said. “We monitor these programs vigorously,” Ms. Spellings replied. “Who is monitoring?” Mr. Miller shot back. “Do they have blinders on?” Ms. Spellings countered that her critics were focusing too narrowly on scattered abuses in student lending, without offering much constructive help in changing the system, which she said was “crying out for reform.” “We cannot fix this broken enterprise by cherry-picking a few narrow issues to address,” she said. “We must peel back the layers, increase transparency, streamline the entire system and provide more aid to students.” Ms. Spellings said she would convene a meeting of other federal agencies that deal with lending issues, including the Federal Trade Commission, the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Federal Reserve, to forge a coherent federal response to improper relationships between lenders and universities. Lenders have come under scrutiny in recent months as New York’s attorney general, , has highlighted practices of lenders to get on university preferred lender lists, which students rely on in seeking loans. Mr. Cuomo on Thursday announced a new agreement with , a student loan company that engaged in some of the questionable practices, and the CIT Group, the company’s parent. Under the terms of the new agreement, CIT will pay $3 million to a national fund for educating high school students and their parents about financial aid. The company also signed a code of conduct developed by Mr. Cuomo, governing relationships between colleges and lenders. The department has also come under scrutiny from Congress for its failure to halt millions of dollars in subsidy payments to lenders that exploited loopholes to inflate their eligibility for subsidies on the student loans, including those paid to Nelnet. Mr. Miller and other lawmakers pressed Ms. Spellings, the lone witness, to explain her decision in January to allow Nelnet, a major contributor to Republican campaigns, to keep the $278 million. In exchange, Nelnet agreed not to bill for nearly $900 million in subsidies it believed it was eligible for. Ms. Spellings said that she thought the fact that the department had been paying the subsidies without question could have put it in legal jeopardy and that Nelnet might have prevailed in a lawsuit. “The reason that I settled was that there was a risk of nearly $900 million that this government was in danger of losing if we lost a lawsuit,” Ms. Spellings said. Representative John F. Tierney, Democrat of Massachusetts, said, “It boggles my mind — we allowed somebody to get away essentially with theft.” . Mr. Miller declined to answer questions after the hearing about any Justice Department action against Nelnet. The loan company itself hinted to investors in a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission earlier this year that the matter might not be closed, saying that “the company was informed by the department that a civil attorney with the Department of Justice has opened a file regarding this issue.” Ben Kiser, a Nelnet spokesman, said in an interview, “We are fully cooperating with the Department of Justice and are confident that there are no grounds for any action against Nelnet.” Jonathan D. Glater contributed reporting. More Articles in Washington &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Federal Student Loan Official Is Resigning Whistle-Blower on Student Aid Is Vindicated Education Dept. Starts Inquiry Into Possible Loan Conflicts Some Access to Student Finance Data Is Restored More Articles in Washington &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/nyregion/10kearny.html?ex=1336449600&en=805829c3dd50797d&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Parents and District Settle Dispute on Teacher&#8217;s Religious Remarks - New York Times Parents and District Settle Dispute on Teacher’s Religious Remarks Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 The Kearny Board of Education in and the parents of Matthew LaClair, a 17-year-old junior at Kearny High School, settled their dispute on Tuesday night about a teacher who proselytized in class. The settlement will include training for teachers and students about the separation of church and state and a public statement by the board praising Matthew for bringing the matter to its attention. Matthew recorded his history teacher, David Paszkiewicz, making comments in class in September, including remarks that only Christians had a place in heaven, that the Big Bang and evolution theories were not scientific and that dinosaurs were on Noah&#8217;s Ark. After the tapes became public, Matthew received a death threat and was shunned and bullied by some of his classmates, he has said. In the fall, the board reprimanded the teacher and later adopted a policy barring students from taping in class without a teacher&#8217;s permission. In February, Matthew&#8217;s parents, Paul and Debra LaClair, filed court papers on their son&#8217;s behalf saying that they intended to sue the district for violating his First Amendment and civil rights. They faulted the district for not protecting Matthew from harassment by other students and sought public corrections to some of the statements the teacher made in class. As part of the settlement, in which neither side admits wrongdoing, the New Jersey regional office of the will start training teachers and students in September about keeping church and state separate in public schools, and about &#8220;the distinction between the scientific theory of evolution and the religious doctrine of creationism.&#8221; Another part of the deal says the board will make a public statement commending Matthew for his &#8220;courage and integrity,&#8221; and the LaClairs will issue a statement commending the board. The settlement does not address the status of Mr. Paszkiewicz, 39, who has remained a history teacher at the high school. Mr. Paszkiewicz, who is also a Baptist youth pastor, had his classes switched in the middle of the school year so as not to have Matthew as a student. Demetrios K. Stratis, the lawyer for Mr. Paszkiewicz, said that his client was not involved in the settlement and knew nothing about it. &#8220;There are people who think my client is the victim,&#8221; Mr. Stratis said yesterday. Kenneth J. Lindenfelser, the lawyer for the Kearny school board, said the settlement created remedies that go further than any court has gone. &#8220;This may set the framework for how districts deal with these kinds of situations in the future,&#8221; he said. After the settlement passed on Tuesday night &#151; by a vote of 6-1, with two board members absent &#151; Matthew said in a phone interview, &#8220;I sincerely hope the board and everybody involved possibly learned something from this whole thing.&#8221; He said that he had learned plenty, &#8220;like how hard it can be sometimes to go against the grain, and that a lot of times, even though things may be tough, you still have to go through with it and finish it.&#8221; More Articles in New York Region &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Believing Scripture but Playing by Science's Rules Vashti McCollum, 93, Plaintiff In a Landmark Religion Suit National Briefing | West: California: Christian School's Lawsuit Can Proceed Don't Be Friends With Christians or Jews, Saudi Texts Say More Articles in New York Region &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer THE NEW YORK TIMES GUIDE TO ESSENTIAL KNOWLEDGE Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/education/10harvard.html	Harvard Task Force Calls for New Focus on Teaching and Not Just Research - New York Times Harvard Task Force Calls for New Focus on Teaching and Not Just Research Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 CAMBRIDGE, Mass., May 8 — Joshua Billings, 22, says he did not come to Skip to next paragraph Erik Jacobs for The New York Times Theda Skocpol, a dean, is urging a new approach to teaching and learning at Harvard. Erik Jacobs for The New York Times Joshua Billings, a Harvard senior, says many undergraduates there &#147;have little direct contact with professors, and are frustrated by poorly trained teaching fellows.&#148; “You’d be stupid if you came to Harvard for the teaching,” said Mr. Billings, who will graduate this spring and then go to Oxford as a Rhodes scholar. “You go to a liberal arts college for the teaching. You come to Harvard to be around some of the greatest minds on earth.” And that is pretty much how the thinking has gone here at Harvard for several decades. As one of the world’s most renowned research universities, Harvard is where academic superstars are continually expected to revolutionize their fields of knowledge. Cutting-edge research is emphasized, and recognized with tangible rewards: tenure, money, prestige, prizes, fame. But now, with strong support from the university’s interim president, Derek Bok, nine prominent professors are leading an effort to rethink the culture of undergraduate teaching and learning. Headed by Theda Skocpol, a social scientist, the group has issued a report calling for sweeping institutional change, including continuing evaluation and assessment of teaching and learning, and a proposal that teaching be weighed equally with contributions to research in annual salary adjustments. “It’s about the pursuit of excellence in teaching,” said Professor Skocpol, the dean of the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences. “We need to put our money where our mouth is. We can’t just mention excellent teachers occasionally. We have to notice and reward their efforts consistently.” is among the initiatives that Drew Gilpin Faust is expected to address when she takes over as president in July. “It’s well known that there are many other colleges where students are much more satisfied with their academic experience,” said Paul Buttenwieser, a psychiatrist and author who is a member of the Harvard Board of Overseers, and who favors the report. “Amherst is always pointed to. Harvard should be as great at teaching as Amherst.” As Professor Skocpol put it, “People at Harvard are concerned when they hear that some of our undergraduates can go through four years here and not know a faculty member well enough to get a letter of recommendation.” The effort here comes as the federal government and state accrediting agencies, as well as students and parents, press universities nationwide to provide more accountability for how well their faculties are teaching. “If we don’t do it ourselves,” President Bok said of the government pressure, “they’re going to make us do it their way.” The nation’s leading research universities have been looking for ways to better balance research and teaching for the past decade. Some institutions, like and Princeton, are known for their commitment to both. Columbia is reviewing its undergraduate curriculum, including evaluating the teaching. But because of Harvard’s standing, its effort is being closely watched around the country. “They’ve staked out a position that other people have to pay attention to,” said Robert Connor, president of the Teagle Foundation, which gives colleges and universities money to encourage innovation in teaching. Columbia is taking the Harvard report into account as it moves through its own review, said Alan Brinkley, Columbia’s provost. “If we’re going to ask some undergraduates to pay as much as $47,000 a year to come to these elite universities,” he said, “then we have an obligation to make sure they get a great education.” One of the most significant aspects of the report, Dr. Connor said, is the stature of the professors who worked on it. In addition to Professor Skocpol, the group includes Laurel Thatcher Ulrich, a Pulitzer-Prize-winning historian; Xiao-Li Meng, the chairman of the statistics department; and Eric Mazur, a physicist who is known for his innovative teaching as well as his research. The aim of the report is not to de-emphasize research in any way, but to bring about a greater institutional focus on teaching, Professor Ulrich said. “This is not a report that says we’re going to hire teachers who are not also scholars,” she said. “We want both.” Still, despite the perception that some of the greatest minds at Harvard are not all that committed to teaching, Professor Skocpol said the reality was more complicated. Next Article in Education (2 of 4) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. HARVARD REVERSES TENURE DECISION Next Article in Education (2 of 4) &#x00bb; A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer THE NEW YORK TIMES GUIDE TO ESSENTIAL KNOWLEDGE Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/nyregion/10school.html?ex=1336449600&en=2d6f1d374b0a7656&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Arabic School Finds Temporary Home in Brooklyn - New York Times Arabic School Finds Temporary Home in Brooklyn Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 The Department of Education has found a temporary site for the Khalil Gibran International Academy, a public school devoted to the study of Arabic language and culture that is scheduled to open in September. The school will be put in a building at 345 Dean Street in Boerum Hill, Brooklyn, that currently houses the Brooklyn High School of the Arts and the Math and Science Exploratory School, a middle school. Last Friday, the department canceled plans to place Khalil Gibran in the same building as Public School 282, an elementary school in Park Slope. The department had faced opposition from the parents at P.S. 282, who objected to sharing the space. And some conservative columnists had condemned the school, saying it could promote radical Islam. Khalil Gibran will open to up to 60 sixth graders, said Melody Meyer, a spokeswoman for the department. It will take up three classrooms in the building and share common spaces like the cafeteria. After two years, it will move to a more permanent site. &#8220;We are confident that the three schools can share space effectively,&#8221; Ms. Meyer said in a statement. &#8220;We met with the principals and parent leadership at both schools yesterday and will continue to work with both school communities to plan the best use of the space in the building to ensure the success of all three schools.&#8221; Robert W. Finley III, the principal of the Brooklyn High School of the Arts, said he was prepared to accept Khalil Gibran on a temporary basis. &#8220;I would be less than honorable if I were to object to this,&#8221; he said. &#8220;The Department of Education is the landlord. We know there is a shortage of classroom space in New York City and there is an increase in the number of new schools in September.&#8221; The principal at the Math and Science Exploratory School did not return calls seeking comment. , the president of the United Federation of Teachers , declared support for the Khalil Gibran school in a statement yesterday. &#8220;As long as there is adequate space in the building, this is an idea that should be welcomed,&#8221; she said. More Articles in New York Region &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. World Briefing | Europe: France: Education Official Fired For Opposing Muslim School Britain Proposes Allowing Schools to Forbid Full-Face Muslim Veils Graduation Held in Church Leads to a Suit More Articles in New York Region &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/nyregion/10kearny.html	Parents and District Settle Dispute on Teacher&#8217;s Religious Remarks - New York Times Parents and District Settle Dispute on Teacher’s Religious Remarks Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 The Kearny Board of Education in and the parents of Matthew LaClair, a 17-year-old junior at Kearny High School, settled their dispute on Tuesday night about a teacher who proselytized in class. The settlement will include training for teachers and students about the separation of church and state and a public statement by the board praising Matthew for bringing the matter to its attention. Matthew recorded his history teacher, David Paszkiewicz, making comments in class in September, including remarks that only Christians had a place in heaven, that the Big Bang and evolution theories were not scientific and that dinosaurs were on Noah&#8217;s Ark. After the tapes became public, Matthew received a death threat and was shunned and bullied by some of his classmates, he has said. In the fall, the board reprimanded the teacher and later adopted a policy barring students from taping in class without a teacher&#8217;s permission. In February, Matthew&#8217;s parents, Paul and Debra LaClair, filed court papers on their son&#8217;s behalf saying that they intended to sue the district for violating his First Amendment and civil rights. They faulted the district for not protecting Matthew from harassment by other students and sought public corrections to some of the statements the teacher made in class. As part of the settlement, in which neither side admits wrongdoing, the New Jersey regional office of the will start training teachers and students in September about keeping church and state separate in public schools, and about &#8220;the distinction between the scientific theory of evolution and the religious doctrine of creationism.&#8221; Another part of the deal says the board will make a public statement commending Matthew for his &#8220;courage and integrity,&#8221; and the LaClairs will issue a statement commending the board. The settlement does not address the status of Mr. Paszkiewicz, 39, who has remained a history teacher at the high school. Mr. Paszkiewicz, who is also a Baptist youth pastor, had his classes switched in the middle of the school year so as not to have Matthew as a student. Demetrios K. Stratis, the lawyer for Mr. Paszkiewicz, said that his client was not involved in the settlement and knew nothing about it. &#8220;There are people who think my client is the victim,&#8221; Mr. Stratis said yesterday. Kenneth J. Lindenfelser, the lawyer for the Kearny school board, said the settlement created remedies that go further than any court has gone. &#8220;This may set the framework for how districts deal with these kinds of situations in the future,&#8221; he said. After the settlement passed on Tuesday night &#151; by a vote of 6-1, with two board members absent &#151; Matthew said in a phone interview, &#8220;I sincerely hope the board and everybody involved possibly learned something from this whole thing.&#8221; He said that he had learned plenty, &#8220;like how hard it can be sometimes to go against the grain, and that a lot of times, even though things may be tough, you still have to go through with it and finish it.&#8221; More Articles in New York Region &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Believing Scripture but Playing by Science's Rules Vashti McCollum, 93, Plaintiff In a Landmark Religion Suit National Briefing | West: California: Christian School's Lawsuit Can Proceed Don't Be Friends With Christians or Jews, Saudi Texts Say More Articles in New York Region &#x00bb; A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer THE NEW YORK TIMES GUIDE TO ESSENTIAL KNOWLEDGE Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/education/11purdue.html?ex=1336536000&en=22f791849c0d2c18&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Purdue Will Reinvestigate Its Professor Who Claimed Desktop Fusion - New York Times Purdue Will Reinvestigate Its Professor Who Claimed Desktop Fusion Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 Three months after it cleared him of research misconduct, has begun a new inquiry into a professor who claims to have generated nuclear fusion in a desktop experiment, the university acknowledged yesterday. Skip to next paragraph Rusi P. Taleyarkhan was cleared of misconduct in an earlier inquiry. Researcher Cleared of Misconduct, but Case Is Still Murky The new inquiry goes beyond the focus of an earlier one, which looked at whether the professor, Rusi P. Taleyarkhan, improperly omitted himself as an author on two scientific papers. For the first time, a committee is examining whether the underlying research might have been fraudulent. Meanwhile, details of the earlier inquiry have emerged in a report by a Congressional subcommittee that reviewed Purdue’s actions. Although the earlier inquiry cleared Dr. Taleyarkhan of misconduct, it described “what might be characterized most favorably as severe lack of judgment” and said he had “abused his privilege as senior scientist,” according to the report from the Congressional subcommittee. Dr. Taleyarkhan said last night in an e-mail message that the subcommittee’s report represents “a gross travesty of justice.” He asked, “Where are the Jesse Jacksons and Al Sharptons of the Asian community during this episode that has caused this biased and openly one-sided smear campaign?” In scientific papers starting in 2002, Dr. Taleyarkhan, a professor of nuclear engineering, said the force of sound waves could collapse bubbles in a liquid and generate temperatures hot enough for hydrogen atoms to fuse and release energy, similar to how the sun makes heat and light. But other scientists have not been able to reproduce the process, called bubble fusion or sonofusion. Purdue’s handling of the controversy has been criticized inside and outside the university. “I think they fell short of what we would expect of them,” said Representative Brad Miller, a Democrat of North Carolina and the chairman of the investigations and oversight subcommittee of the House Committee on Science and Technology. The subcommittee, citing the need to ensure the integrity of federally financed research, requested copies of Purdue’s findings in March. On Wednesday, Mr. Miller sent to Martin C. Jischke, Purdue’s president, a letter and an accompanying memorandum by the subcommittee’s staff that strongly criticized Purdue. While the subcommittee did not release Purdue’s reports, the memorandum quotes from them and gives a clear chronology of Purdue’s actions. University administrators have said confidentiality requires them to withhold almost all information. The memorandum cites “numerous failures” in how Purdue addressed concerns about Dr. Taleyarkhan’s research. It says that Purdue did not follow its procedures, that the inquiry was not thorough and that the inquiry committee appeared to ignore the university’s definition of research misconduct. In a statement released last night, Purdue officials said they would address the concerns raised in the letter and the memorandum. Sally Mason, Purdue’s provost, said that soon after Dr. Taleyarkhan was cleared in February, the university received new accusations that merited a new inquiry. “We will proceed systematically and fairly,” Dr. Mason said, “and in the end, we will take whatever action is dictated by the evidence.” Up to now, Purdue has focused on two scientific papers published in 2005 that Dr. Taleyarkhan hailed as independent confirmation of his sonofusion results. But the experiments, performed in February 2004, were done using Dr. Taleyarkhan’s apparatus at Purdue, not at an independent laboratory, and one of the authors, Yiban Xu, joined Dr. Taleyarkhan’s group as a postdoctoral researcher a few months later. A second author, Adam Butt, a graduate student, also joined Dr. Taleyarkhan’s group. Further, in response to a fact-finding committee convened by the nuclear engineering school, Mr. Butt signed a statement that he did not participate in any of the experiments or the analysis of the data and that he had been added as an author to one of the papers a week before submission and was not aware that he was on the second paper until a week before it was presented at a conference. Dr. Xu declined to answer questions about the papers, but the committee noted similarities between them and several of Dr. Taleyarkhan’s. That fact-finding report was forwarded to Purdue administrators in February 2006. Purdue’s procedure for handling misconduct allegations is similar to other universities’ in calling for a two-step process: an inquiry committee evaluates the allegation, and if it finds sufficient evidence, then a full investigation is carried out. But instead of starting an inquiry, Purdue administrators asked first for a “review” of the allegations, a step that is not included in its misconduct policy. The review led to the appointment of an inquiry committee in July. According to the report from Congress, that committee in large part concurred with the findings of the nuclear engineering school’s fact-finding report, that it was “highly unlikely” that the experiment by Dr. Xu and Mr. Butt could be considered independent confirmation, and that Dr. Taleyarkhan had placed junior scientists in “precarious positions” to promote his research. But the inquiry deemed these to be failures of judgment rather than research misconduct and said an investigation was not needed. The Congressional subcommittee staff wrote, “It is difficult to understand how the inquiry committee could have then decided that Dr. Taleyarkhan’s actions did not constitute research misconduct,” which Purdue’s policy defines as “serious deviations” from commonly accepted academic practices. In his letter to Dr. Jischke, Mr. Miller expressed disappointment that the three members appointed to the new committee had served on earlier ones. He said Dr. Jischke had agreed to add one or more outside researchers. “I sincerely hope that the next inquiry will be conducted in a manner worthy of your great institution,” Mr. Miller wrote. Next Article in Education (1 of 4) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Congress Asks Purdue for Fusion Claim Findings Next Article in Education (1 of 4) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/education/11purdue.html	Purdue Will Reinvestigate Its Professor Who Claimed Desktop Fusion - New York Times Purdue Will Reinvestigate Its Professor Who Claimed Desktop Fusion Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 Three months after it cleared him of research misconduct, has begun a new inquiry into a professor who claims to have generated nuclear fusion in a desktop experiment, the university acknowledged yesterday. Skip to next paragraph Rusi P. Taleyarkhan was cleared of misconduct in an earlier inquiry. Researcher Cleared of Misconduct, but Case Is Still Murky The new inquiry goes beyond the focus of an earlier one, which looked at whether the professor, Rusi P. Taleyarkhan, improperly omitted himself as an author on two scientific papers. For the first time, a committee is examining whether the underlying research might have been fraudulent. Meanwhile, details of the earlier inquiry have emerged in a report by a Congressional subcommittee that reviewed Purdue’s actions. Although the earlier inquiry cleared Dr. Taleyarkhan of misconduct, it described “what might be characterized most favorably as severe lack of judgment” and said he had “abused his privilege as senior scientist,” according to the report from the Congressional subcommittee. Dr. Taleyarkhan said last night in an e-mail message that the subcommittee’s report represents “a gross travesty of justice.” He asked, “Where are the Jesse Jacksons and Al Sharptons of the Asian community during this episode that has caused this biased and openly one-sided smear campaign?” In scientific papers starting in 2002, Dr. Taleyarkhan, a professor of nuclear engineering, said the force of sound waves could collapse bubbles in a liquid and generate temperatures hot enough for hydrogen atoms to fuse and release energy, similar to how the sun makes heat and light. But other scientists have not been able to reproduce the process, called bubble fusion or sonofusion. Purdue’s handling of the controversy has been criticized inside and outside the university. “I think they fell short of what we would expect of them,” said Representative Brad Miller, a Democrat of North Carolina and the chairman of the investigations and oversight subcommittee of the House Committee on Science and Technology. The subcommittee, citing the need to ensure the integrity of federally financed research, requested copies of Purdue’s findings in March. On Wednesday, Mr. Miller sent to Martin C. Jischke, Purdue’s president, a letter and an accompanying memorandum by the subcommittee’s staff that strongly criticized Purdue. While the subcommittee did not release Purdue’s reports, the memorandum quotes from them and gives a clear chronology of Purdue’s actions. University administrators have said confidentiality requires them to withhold almost all information. The memorandum cites “numerous failures” in how Purdue addressed concerns about Dr. Taleyarkhan’s research. It says that Purdue did not follow its procedures, that the inquiry was not thorough and that the inquiry committee appeared to ignore the university’s definition of research misconduct. In a statement released last night, Purdue officials said they would address the concerns raised in the letter and the memorandum. Sally Mason, Purdue’s provost, said that soon after Dr. Taleyarkhan was cleared in February, the university received new accusations that merited a new inquiry. “We will proceed systematically and fairly,” Dr. Mason said, “and in the end, we will take whatever action is dictated by the evidence.” Up to now, Purdue has focused on two scientific papers published in 2005 that Dr. Taleyarkhan hailed as independent confirmation of his sonofusion results. But the experiments, performed in February 2004, were done using Dr. Taleyarkhan’s apparatus at Purdue, not at an independent laboratory, and one of the authors, Yiban Xu, joined Dr. Taleyarkhan’s group as a postdoctoral researcher a few months later. A second author, Adam Butt, a graduate student, also joined Dr. Taleyarkhan’s group. Further, in response to a fact-finding committee convened by the nuclear engineering school, Mr. Butt signed a statement that he did not participate in any of the experiments or the analysis of the data and that he had been added as an author to one of the papers a week before submission and was not aware that he was on the second paper until a week before it was presented at a conference. Dr. Xu declined to answer questions about the papers, but the committee noted similarities between them and several of Dr. Taleyarkhan’s. That fact-finding report was forwarded to Purdue administrators in February 2006. Purdue’s procedure for handling misconduct allegations is similar to other universities’ in calling for a two-step process: an inquiry committee evaluates the allegation, and if it finds sufficient evidence, then a full investigation is carried out. But instead of starting an inquiry, Purdue administrators asked first for a “review” of the allegations, a step that is not included in its misconduct policy. The review led to the appointment of an inquiry committee in July. According to the report from Congress, that committee in large part concurred with the findings of the nuclear engineering school’s fact-finding report, that it was “highly unlikely” that the experiment by Dr. Xu and Mr. Butt could be considered independent confirmation, and that Dr. Taleyarkhan had placed junior scientists in “precarious positions” to promote his research. But the inquiry deemed these to be failures of judgment rather than research misconduct and said an investigation was not needed. The Congressional subcommittee staff wrote, “It is difficult to understand how the inquiry committee could have then decided that Dr. Taleyarkhan’s actions did not constitute research misconduct,” which Purdue’s policy defines as “serious deviations” from commonly accepted academic practices. In his letter to Dr. Jischke, Mr. Miller expressed disappointment that the three members appointed to the new committee had served on earlier ones. He said Dr. Jischke had agreed to add one or more outside researchers. “I sincerely hope that the next inquiry will be conducted in a manner worthy of your great institution,” Mr. Miller wrote. Next Article in Education (1 of 4) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Congress Asks Purdue for Fusion Claim Findings Next Article in Education (1 of 4) &#x00bb; A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Pinus Insignis, at Osborne Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/education/10harvard.html?ex=1336449600&en=b78842d9d28a84c8&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Harvard Task Force Calls for New Focus on Teaching and Not Just Research - New York Times Harvard Task Force Calls for New Focus on Teaching and Not Just Research Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 CAMBRIDGE, Mass., May 8 — Joshua Billings, 22, says he did not come to Skip to next paragraph Erik Jacobs for The New York Times Theda Skocpol, a dean, is urging a new approach to teaching and learning at Harvard. Erik Jacobs for The New York Times Joshua Billings, a Harvard senior, says many undergraduates there &#147;have little direct contact with professors, and are frustrated by poorly trained teaching fellows.&#148; “You’d be stupid if you came to Harvard for the teaching,” said Mr. Billings, who will graduate this spring and then go to Oxford as a Rhodes scholar. “You go to a liberal arts college for the teaching. You come to Harvard to be around some of the greatest minds on earth.” And that is pretty much how the thinking has gone here at Harvard for several decades. As one of the world’s most renowned research universities, Harvard is where academic superstars are continually expected to revolutionize their fields of knowledge. Cutting-edge research is emphasized, and recognized with tangible rewards: tenure, money, prestige, prizes, fame. But now, with strong support from the university’s interim president, Derek Bok, nine prominent professors are leading an effort to rethink the culture of undergraduate teaching and learning. Headed by Theda Skocpol, a social scientist, the group has issued a report calling for sweeping institutional change, including continuing evaluation and assessment of teaching and learning, and a proposal that teaching be weighed equally with contributions to research in annual salary adjustments. “It’s about the pursuit of excellence in teaching,” said Professor Skocpol, the dean of the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences. “We need to put our money where our mouth is. We can’t just mention excellent teachers occasionally. We have to notice and reward their efforts consistently.” is among the initiatives that Drew Gilpin Faust is expected to address when she takes over as president in July. “It’s well known that there are many other colleges where students are much more satisfied with their academic experience,” said Paul Buttenwieser, a psychiatrist and author who is a member of the Harvard Board of Overseers, and who favors the report. “Amherst is always pointed to. Harvard should be as great at teaching as Amherst.” As Professor Skocpol put it, “People at Harvard are concerned when they hear that some of our undergraduates can go through four years here and not know a faculty member well enough to get a letter of recommendation.” The effort here comes as the federal government and state accrediting agencies, as well as students and parents, press universities nationwide to provide more accountability for how well their faculties are teaching. “If we don’t do it ourselves,” President Bok said of the government pressure, “they’re going to make us do it their way.” The nation’s leading research universities have been looking for ways to better balance research and teaching for the past decade. Some institutions, like and Princeton, are known for their commitment to both. Columbia is reviewing its undergraduate curriculum, including evaluating the teaching. But because of Harvard’s standing, its effort is being closely watched around the country. “They’ve staked out a position that other people have to pay attention to,” said Robert Connor, president of the Teagle Foundation, which gives colleges and universities money to encourage innovation in teaching. Columbia is taking the Harvard report into account as it moves through its own review, said Alan Brinkley, Columbia’s provost. “If we’re going to ask some undergraduates to pay as much as $47,000 a year to come to these elite universities,” he said, “then we have an obligation to make sure they get a great education.” One of the most significant aspects of the report, Dr. Connor said, is the stature of the professors who worked on it. In addition to Professor Skocpol, the group includes Laurel Thatcher Ulrich, a Pulitzer-Prize-winning historian; Xiao-Li Meng, the chairman of the statistics department; and Eric Mazur, a physicist who is known for his innovative teaching as well as his research. The aim of the report is not to de-emphasize research in any way, but to bring about a greater institutional focus on teaching, Professor Ulrich said. “This is not a report that says we’re going to hire teachers who are not also scholars,” she said. “We want both.” Still, despite the perception that some of the greatest minds at Harvard are not all that committed to teaching, Professor Skocpol said the reality was more complicated. Next Article in Education (2 of 4) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. HARVARD REVERSES TENURE DECISION Next Article in Education (2 of 4) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer THE NEW YORK TIMES GUIDE TO ESSENTIAL KNOWLEDGE Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/nyregion/10school.html	Arabic School Finds Temporary Home in Brooklyn - New York Times Arabic School Finds Temporary Home in Brooklyn Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 The Department of Education has found a temporary site for the Khalil Gibran International Academy, a public school devoted to the study of Arabic language and culture that is scheduled to open in September. The school will be put in a building at 345 Dean Street in Boerum Hill, Brooklyn, that currently houses the Brooklyn High School of the Arts and the Math and Science Exploratory School, a middle school. Last Friday, the department canceled plans to place Khalil Gibran in the same building as Public School 282, an elementary school in Park Slope. The department had faced opposition from the parents at P.S. 282, who objected to sharing the space. And some conservative columnists had condemned the school, saying it could promote radical Islam. Khalil Gibran will open to up to 60 sixth graders, said Melody Meyer, a spokeswoman for the department. It will take up three classrooms in the building and share common spaces like the cafeteria. After two years, it will move to a more permanent site. &#8220;We are confident that the three schools can share space effectively,&#8221; Ms. Meyer said in a statement. &#8220;We met with the principals and parent leadership at both schools yesterday and will continue to work with both school communities to plan the best use of the space in the building to ensure the success of all three schools.&#8221; Robert W. Finley III, the principal of the Brooklyn High School of the Arts, said he was prepared to accept Khalil Gibran on a temporary basis. &#8220;I would be less than honorable if I were to object to this,&#8221; he said. &#8220;The Department of Education is the landlord. We know there is a shortage of classroom space in New York City and there is an increase in the number of new schools in September.&#8221; The principal at the Math and Science Exploratory School did not return calls seeking comment. , the president of the United Federation of Teachers , declared support for the Khalil Gibran school in a statement yesterday. &#8220;As long as there is adequate space in the building, this is an idea that should be welcomed,&#8221; she said. More Articles in New York Region &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. World Briefing | Europe: France: Education Official Fired For Opposing Muslim School Britain Proposes Allowing Schools to Forbid Full-Face Muslim Veils Graduation Held in Church Leads to a Suit More Articles in New York Region &#x00bb; A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer THE NEW YORK TIMES GUIDE TO ESSENTIAL KNOWLEDGE Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/washington/10loans.html?ex=1336449600&en=526379d7195b7e7f&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	House Passes Ban on Gifts From Student Lenders - New York Times House Passes Ban on Gifts From Student Lenders Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 , May 9 — The House of Representatives voted overwhelmingly Wednesday to ban gifts and payments by companies to universities, showing bipartisan resolve to clean up the $85 billion industry. The vote, 414 to 3, demonstrated how politically potent the issue of paying for college has become at a time when tuition is steadily rising and millions of students depend on borrowing to finance college. “With this vote,” said Representative George Miller, the California Democrat who leads the House education committee, “the House has taken a huge step in the right direction to put a stop to those practices and make sure that the student loan programs operate on the level, in the best interests of students and families trying to pay for college.” The bill passed a day before Education Secretary Margaret Spellings was scheduled to testify before the House education committee about oversight of the industry. It comes in the wake of revelations that lenders paid universities money contingent on student loan volume, gave gifts to the financial aid administrators whom students rely on to recommend lenders, and hired financial aid officials as paid consultants. The nation’s four largest student lenders and at least 22 colleges have already signed on to a code of conduct developed by Attorney General Mr. Miller was joined by the ranking Republican on his committee, Representative Howard P. McKeon of California, in promoting the bill. “We’re stepping up today for a single, fundamental reason,” Mr. McKeon said before the vote, “to ensure our nation’s financial aid system continues to serve the needs of our students.” But he also urged that Congress be careful “not to overreach.” The bill has bipartisan support in the Senate, said Senator , Democrat of Massachusetts and chairman of the education committee. A senior Education Department official said that the agency was prepared to move quickly to draft regulations to enforce the bill. Ms. Spellings is expected to face tough questions Thursday about the department’s policing of the industry, as well as about enforcement of its own internal policies on conflicts of interest after reports that an official with oversight over the student loan database held stock in a student loan company. Ms. Spellings’s chief of staff, David Dunn, said in an interview that the secretary wanted to “set the record straight” and show that the department had taken the steps it could to regulate lenders. Ms. Spellings has convened a task force that is to make recommendations by the end of May on how to regulate the lists of recommended lenders at university aid offices. Ms. Spellings is also expected to face questions about the oversight of Reading First, a program designed to teach poor children to read by third grade. The department’s inspector general, John P. Higgins, has issued reports finding conflicts of interest, cronyism and bias in how officials and private consultants operated the program and awarded grants. Mr. Kennedy, in a report, added new detail Wednesday on how four officials contracted by the education agency to advise states on buying reading materials had lucrative ties with publishers. Edward Kame’enui, head of the department’s western technical assistance center in Oregon from 2002 through May 2005, earned hundreds of thousands of dollars in royalties from Pearson/Scott Foresman from 2001 to 2006, the report said. It also said that Douglas Carnine, who replaced Dr. Kame’enui in 2005, also earned royalties — $168,470 from McGraw-Hill, Houghton Mifflin and Pearson last year. Joseph Torgesen, who advised Eastern states about materials, and Sharon Vaughn, who advised Central states, also received thousands of dollars in royalties from educational publishers while representing the department, the report said. Katherine McLane, a department spokeswoman, said: “The department is deeply concerned about conflicts of interest and takes the allegations contained in Senator Kennedy’s report very seriously. “We are studying this report to determine if further actions are necessary and will act aggressively if any wrongdoing is found.” More Articles in Washington &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. House Democrats May Seek Short-Term Financing of War Lawmaker Tied to Inquiries Gives Up Seat on Committee House Votes to Give the Capital a Full Voice in Congress THE REACH OF WAR: CONGRESSIONAL MEMO; Action on Troop Reshapes Bush's Debate With Congress More Articles in Washington &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/washington/10loans.html	House Passes Ban on Gifts From Student Lenders - New York Times House Passes Ban on Gifts From Student Lenders Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 , May 9 — The House of Representatives voted overwhelmingly Wednesday to ban gifts and payments by companies to universities, showing bipartisan resolve to clean up the $85 billion industry. The vote, 414 to 3, demonstrated how politically potent the issue of paying for college has become at a time when tuition is steadily rising and millions of students depend on borrowing to finance college. “With this vote,” said Representative George Miller, the California Democrat who leads the House education committee, “the House has taken a huge step in the right direction to put a stop to those practices and make sure that the student loan programs operate on the level, in the best interests of students and families trying to pay for college.” The bill passed a day before Education Secretary Margaret Spellings was scheduled to testify before the House education committee about oversight of the industry. It comes in the wake of revelations that lenders paid universities money contingent on student loan volume, gave gifts to the financial aid administrators whom students rely on to recommend lenders, and hired financial aid officials as paid consultants. The nation’s four largest student lenders and at least 22 colleges have already signed on to a code of conduct developed by Attorney General Mr. Miller was joined by the ranking Republican on his committee, Representative Howard P. McKeon of California, in promoting the bill. “We’re stepping up today for a single, fundamental reason,” Mr. McKeon said before the vote, “to ensure our nation’s financial aid system continues to serve the needs of our students.” But he also urged that Congress be careful “not to overreach.” The bill has bipartisan support in the Senate, said Senator , Democrat of Massachusetts and chairman of the education committee. A senior Education Department official said that the agency was prepared to move quickly to draft regulations to enforce the bill. Ms. Spellings is expected to face tough questions Thursday about the department’s policing of the industry, as well as about enforcement of its own internal policies on conflicts of interest after reports that an official with oversight over the student loan database held stock in a student loan company. Ms. Spellings’s chief of staff, David Dunn, said in an interview that the secretary wanted to “set the record straight” and show that the department had taken the steps it could to regulate lenders. Ms. Spellings has convened a task force that is to make recommendations by the end of May on how to regulate the lists of recommended lenders at university aid offices. Ms. Spellings is also expected to face questions about the oversight of Reading First, a program designed to teach poor children to read by third grade. The department’s inspector general, John P. Higgins, has issued reports finding conflicts of interest, cronyism and bias in how officials and private consultants operated the program and awarded grants. Mr. Kennedy, in a report, added new detail Wednesday on how four officials contracted by the education agency to advise states on buying reading materials had lucrative ties with publishers. Edward Kame’enui, head of the department’s western technical assistance center in Oregon from 2002 through May 2005, earned hundreds of thousands of dollars in royalties from Pearson/Scott Foresman from 2001 to 2006, the report said. It also said that Douglas Carnine, who replaced Dr. Kame’enui in 2005, also earned royalties — $168,470 from McGraw-Hill, Houghton Mifflin and Pearson last year. Joseph Torgesen, who advised Eastern states about materials, and Sharon Vaughn, who advised Central states, also received thousands of dollars in royalties from educational publishers while representing the department, the report said. Katherine McLane, a department spokeswoman, said: “The department is deeply concerned about conflicts of interest and takes the allegations contained in Senator Kennedy’s report very seriously. “We are studying this report to determine if further actions are necessary and will act aggressively if any wrongdoing is found.” More Articles in Washington &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. House Democrats May Seek Short-Term Financing of War Lawmaker Tied to Inquiries Gives Up Seat on Committee House Votes to Give the Capital a Full Voice in Congress THE REACH OF WAR: CONGRESSIONAL MEMO; Action on Troop Reshapes Bush's Debate With Congress More Articles in Washington &#x00bb; A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/pages/education/index.html?partner=rssnyt	Education News - All Headlines - New York Times Doug Mills/The New York Times Education Secretary Margaret Spellings at a hearing on Thursday. Spellings Rejects Criticism on Student Loan Scandal Education Secretary Margaret Spellings argued at a House hearing that she lacked legal authority to clamp down on many abuses in the student loan industry. Purdue Will Reinvestigate Its Professor Who Claimed Desktop Fusion Purdue University has begun a new inquiry into a professor who claims to have generated nuclear fusion in a desktop experiment. House Passes Ban on Gifts From Student Lenders By SAM DILLON and JONATHAN D. GLATER The House of Representatives showed bipartisan resolve to clean up the $85 billion student loan industry. Harvard Task Force Calls for New Focus on Teaching and Not Just Research Nine prominent professors are leading an effort to rethink the culture of undergraduate teaching and learning at Harvard. Parents and District Settle Dispute on Teacher’s Religious Remarks The Kearny Board of Education in New Jersey and the parents of a Kearny High School student settled their dispute about a teacher who proselytized in class. Arabic School Finds Temporary Home in Brooklyn A public school devoted to the study of Arabic language and culture will be put in a building in Boerum Hill, Brooklyn. Federal Student Loan Official Is Resigning On Education: English Language Learners as Pawns in the School System’s Overhaul Students Search for the Words to Go With Their Cultural Pride Whistle-Blower on Student Aid Is Vindicated American Album: Torn From Parents, a Top Speller Vents His Anger, Letter by Letter Walking on the Wild Side of a Montana University School Financing: Increased State Aid or Not, Districts Seek Higher Taxes A Liberal Case for Gun Rights Sways Judiciary Student at Risk? He Can Help. He’s Been There. Money Falls Short of Plans to Clear Bus Air N.Y. Schools Seek Higher Taxes Despite Extra Aid Prominent Education Reformer to Lead New Orleans Schools Students May Have Paid Cash to Change Grades, College Says Education Dept. Starts Inquiry Into Possible Loan Conflicts Almost half of all undergraduates go to a community college, making the two-year experience as much the norm as not. Go to Special Section » 50 Years Later, Little Rock Can&#8217;t Escape Race An Arkansas school district is still riven by racial conflict, and some question how much progress has been made. The achieving, ambitious and confident students of Newton North High School. Middle School: The Critical Years For Students, Teachers and Parents Bring today's Times into your classroom or home with daily lesson plans, news quizzes, thematic crosswords and more. Featured Resource: Class Matters Find the right camp or school for your child In the Education Marketplace: View all Camp Listings View all School Listings Post Your Ad Now! Browse College and University Topics California Institute of Technology City College of New York City University of New York Fashion Institute of Technology Georgia Institute of Technology John Jay College of Criminal Justice Manhattan School of Music Massachusetts Institute of Technology New Jersey Institute of Technology North Carolina State University Rutgers, The State University State University of New York State University of New York at Albany State University of New York at Purchase State University of New York at Stony Brook Texas A and M University United States Air Force Academy United States Naval Academy United States Military Academy University of North Carolina University of Notre Dame University of Rhode Island University of South Carolina University of Southern California Xavier University of Ohio MOST POPULAR - U.S. Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Harvard Task Force Calls for New Focus on Teaching and Not Just Research Wildfire Threatens a California Resort Island New Mayor but Familiar Issues on Dallas&#8217;s Horizon Wildfire Threatens a Southern California Resort Island Europeans Press Wolfowitz to Quit as Bank Chief Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Purdue Will Reinvestigate Its Professor Who Claimed Desktop Fusion Wildfire Threatens a California Resort Island U.S. Queries Filmmaker on Cuba Trip for Movie Go to Complete List » Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus A Liberal Case for Gun Rights Helps Sway Judiciary Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix 6 Arrested in Plot to Attack Fort Dix Critic of Corps of Engineers Says Levee Repairs for New Orleans Show Signs of Flaws College Loan Official Resigns 50 Years Later, Little Rock Can't Escape Race Agency Affirms Mandates for Driver's Licenses Harvard Task Force Calls for New Focus on Teaching and Not Just Research Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer THE NEW YORK TIMES GUIDE TO ESSENTIAL KNOWLEDGE Photos, fine art, books and more. Start your 30-day free trial of Times Reader today. Buy, sell or rent a home. What movie should you see? Tell us your nursing story. Inspiration & lessons. The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/pages/education/index.html	Education News - All Headlines - New York Times Doug Mills/The New York Times Education Secretary Margaret Spellings at a hearing on Thursday. Spellings Rejects Criticism on Student Loan Scandal Education Secretary Margaret Spellings argued at a House hearing that she lacked legal authority to clamp down on many abuses in the student loan industry. Purdue Will Reinvestigate Its Professor Who Claimed Desktop Fusion Purdue University has begun a new inquiry into a professor who claims to have generated nuclear fusion in a desktop experiment. House Passes Ban on Gifts From Student Lenders By SAM DILLON and JONATHAN D. GLATER The House of Representatives showed bipartisan resolve to clean up the $85 billion student loan industry. Harvard Task Force Calls for New Focus on Teaching and Not Just Research Nine prominent professors are leading an effort to rethink the culture of undergraduate teaching and learning at Harvard. Parents and District Settle Dispute on Teacher’s Religious Remarks The Kearny Board of Education in New Jersey and the parents of a Kearny High School student settled their dispute about a teacher who proselytized in class. Arabic School Finds Temporary Home in Brooklyn A public school devoted to the study of Arabic language and culture will be put in a building in Boerum Hill, Brooklyn. Federal Student Loan Official Is Resigning On Education: English Language Learners as Pawns in the School System’s Overhaul Students Search for the Words to Go With Their Cultural Pride Whistle-Blower on Student Aid Is Vindicated American Album: Torn From Parents, a Top Speller Vents His Anger, Letter by Letter Walking on the Wild Side of a Montana University School Financing: Increased State Aid or Not, Districts Seek Higher Taxes A Liberal Case for Gun Rights Sways Judiciary Student at Risk? He Can Help. He’s Been There. Money Falls Short of Plans to Clear Bus Air N.Y. Schools Seek Higher Taxes Despite Extra Aid Prominent Education Reformer to Lead New Orleans Schools Students May Have Paid Cash to Change Grades, College Says Education Dept. Starts Inquiry Into Possible Loan Conflicts Almost half of all undergraduates go to a community college, making the two-year experience as much the norm as not. Go to Special Section » 50 Years Later, Little Rock Can&#8217;t Escape Race An Arkansas school district is still riven by racial conflict, and some question how much progress has been made. The achieving, ambitious and confident students of Newton North High School. Middle School: The Critical Years For Students, Teachers and Parents Bring today's Times into your classroom or home with daily lesson plans, news quizzes, thematic crosswords and more. Featured Resource: Class Matters Find the right camp or school for your child In the Education Marketplace: View all Camp Listings View all School Listings Post Your Ad Now! Browse College and University Topics California Institute of Technology City College of New York City University of New York Fashion Institute of Technology Georgia Institute of Technology John Jay College of Criminal Justice Manhattan School of Music Massachusetts Institute of Technology New Jersey Institute of Technology North Carolina State University Rutgers, The State University State University of New York State University of New York at Albany State University of New York at Purchase State University of New York at Stony Brook Texas A and M University United States Air Force Academy United States Naval Academy United States Military Academy University of North Carolina University of Notre Dame University of Rhode Island University of South Carolina University of Southern California Xavier University of Ohio MOST POPULAR - U.S. Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Harvard Task Force Calls for New Focus on Teaching and Not Just Research Wildfire Threatens a California Resort Island New Mayor but Familiar Issues on Dallas&#8217;s Horizon Wildfire Threatens a Southern California Resort Island Europeans Press Wolfowitz to Quit as Bank Chief Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Purdue Will Reinvestigate Its Professor Who Claimed Desktop Fusion Wildfire Threatens a California Resort Island U.S. Queries Filmmaker on Cuba Trip for Movie Go to Complete List » Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus A Liberal Case for Gun Rights Helps Sway Judiciary Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix 6 Arrested in Plot to Attack Fort Dix Critic of Corps of Engineers Says Levee Repairs for New Orleans Show Signs of Flaws College Loan Official Resigns 50 Years Later, Little Rock Can't Escape Race Agency Affirms Mandates for Driver's Licenses Harvard Task Force Calls for New Focus on Teaching and Not Just Research Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer THE NEW YORK TIMES GUIDE TO ESSENTIAL KNOWLEDGE Continuous coverage of business news. Compare camps and schools to find the right fit for your child. Photos, fine art, books and more. Buy, sell or rent a home. Post a job online today! The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/washington/11spellings.html	Spellings Rejects Criticism on Student Loan Scandal - New York Times Spellings Rejects Criticism on Student Loan Scandal Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 WASHINGTON, May 10 — With scandal rattling the $85 billion industry, Education Secretary Margaret Spellings argued at a House hearing on Thursday that she lacked legal authority to clamp down on many abuses. Skip to next paragraph Doug Mills/The New York Times Education Secretary Margaret Spellings at a hearing on Thursday. Ms. Spellings faced pointed questioning at the hearing from Congressional Democrats, who accused her department of mismanagement and complacency. In about three hours of testimony before the House education committee, Ms. Spellings portrayed her department’s oversight of federal lending programs as vigorous, but said that the world of private lending, which has become increasingly important as college costs have outstripped federal loan programs, was mostly beyond her regulatory authority. She told the panel that the entire student loan system needed overhaul, saying, “The system is redundant, it’s byzantine and it’s broken.” Several Democrats, led by Representative George Miller, questioned her aggressively, asserting that she had regulatory power and moral influence that she had neglected to wield to stop loan companies from paying universities or giving gifts, trips, stock and consulting payments to the university financial aid officers who guide students toward loans. Mr. Miller, the California Democrat who heads the education committee, also took up a separate issue of questionable federal subsidy payments to lenders. He particularly criticized Ms. Spellings’s decision to ignore a recommendation of the department’s inspector general that she recover $278 million in federal subsidy payments improperly obtained by Nelnet, a lender based in Nebraska. He also said the Justice Department was now reviewing the inspector general’s September audit that found Nelnet ineligible for those payments. After the hearing, a Justice Department spokesman, Charles Miller, did not contradict Representative Miller’s assertions, but said, “We have no comment at this time.” Mr. Miller openly dismissed Ms. Spellings’s portrayal of her department’s monitoring of student lending as robust. He also criticized the department for its oversight of Reading First, a program designed to teach poor children to read that has been besieged by reports of conflicts of interest among Education Department consultants. “When I look at the whole body of evidence that has been amassed about both the student loan and Reading First programs, it is clear that — at a minimum — the Education Department’s oversight failures have been monumental,” he said. “We monitor these programs vigorously,” Ms. Spellings replied. “Who is monitoring?” Mr. Miller shot back. “Do they have blinders on?” Ms. Spellings countered that her critics were focusing too narrowly on scattered abuses in student lending, without offering much constructive help in changing the system, which she said was “crying out for reform.” “We cannot fix this broken enterprise by cherry-picking a few narrow issues to address,” she said. “We must peel back the layers, increase transparency, streamline the entire system and provide more aid to students.” Ms. Spellings said she would convene a meeting of other federal agencies that deal with lending issues, including the Federal Trade Commission, the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Federal Reserve, to forge a coherent federal response to improper relationships between lenders and universities. Lenders have come under scrutiny in recent months as New York’s attorney general, , has highlighted practices of lenders to get on university preferred lender lists, which students rely on in seeking loans. Mr. Cuomo on Thursday announced a new agreement with , a student loan company that engaged in some of the questionable practices, and the CIT Group, the company’s parent. Under the terms of the new agreement, CIT will pay $3 million to a national fund for educating high school students and their parents about financial aid. The company also signed a code of conduct developed by Mr. Cuomo, governing relationships between colleges and lenders. The department has also come under scrutiny from Congress for its failure to halt millions of dollars in subsidy payments to lenders that exploited loopholes to inflate their eligibility for subsidies on the student loans, including those paid to Nelnet. Mr. Miller and other lawmakers pressed Ms. Spellings, the lone witness, to explain her decision in January to allow Nelnet, a major contributor to Republican campaigns, to keep the $278 million. In exchange, Nelnet agreed not to bill for nearly $900 million in subsidies it believed it was eligible for. Ms. Spellings said that she thought the fact that the department had been paying the subsidies without question could have put it in legal jeopardy and that Nelnet might have prevailed in a lawsuit. “The reason that I settled was that there was a risk of nearly $900 million that this government was in danger of losing if we lost a lawsuit,” Ms. Spellings said. Representative John F. Tierney, Democrat of Massachusetts, said, “It boggles my mind — we allowed somebody to get away essentially with theft.” . Mr. Miller declined to answer questions after the hearing about any Justice Department action against Nelnet. The loan company itself hinted to investors in a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission earlier this year that the matter might not be closed, saying that “the company was informed by the department that a civil attorney with the Department of Justice has opened a file regarding this issue.” Ben Kiser, a Nelnet spokesman, said in an interview, “We are fully cooperating with the Department of Justice and are confident that there are no grounds for any action against Nelnet.” Jonathan D. Glater contributed reporting. More Articles in Washington &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Federal Student Loan Official Is Resigning Whistle-Blower on Student Aid Is Vindicated Education Dept. Starts Inquiry Into Possible Loan Conflicts Some Access to Student Finance Data Is Restored More Articles in Washington &#x00bb; A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer The Skating Pond, 1862 (Negative No. 76280) Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/washington/10loans.html	House Passes Ban on Gifts From Student Lenders - New York Times House Passes Ban on Gifts From Student Lenders Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 , May 9 — The House of Representatives voted overwhelmingly Wednesday to ban gifts and payments by companies to universities, showing bipartisan resolve to clean up the $85 billion industry. The vote, 414 to 3, demonstrated how politically potent the issue of paying for college has become at a time when tuition is steadily rising and millions of students depend on borrowing to finance college. “With this vote,” said Representative George Miller, the California Democrat who leads the House education committee, “the House has taken a huge step in the right direction to put a stop to those practices and make sure that the student loan programs operate on the level, in the best interests of students and families trying to pay for college.” The bill passed a day before Education Secretary Margaret Spellings was scheduled to testify before the House education committee about oversight of the industry. It comes in the wake of revelations that lenders paid universities money contingent on student loan volume, gave gifts to the financial aid administrators whom students rely on to recommend lenders, and hired financial aid officials as paid consultants. The nation’s four largest student lenders and at least 22 colleges have already signed on to a code of conduct developed by Attorney General Mr. Miller was joined by the ranking Republican on his committee, Representative Howard P. McKeon of California, in promoting the bill. “We’re stepping up today for a single, fundamental reason,” Mr. McKeon said before the vote, “to ensure our nation’s financial aid system continues to serve the needs of our students.” But he also urged that Congress be careful “not to overreach.” The bill has bipartisan support in the Senate, said Senator , Democrat of Massachusetts and chairman of the education committee. A senior Education Department official said that the agency was prepared to move quickly to draft regulations to enforce the bill. Ms. Spellings is expected to face tough questions Thursday about the department’s policing of the industry, as well as about enforcement of its own internal policies on conflicts of interest after reports that an official with oversight over the student loan database held stock in a student loan company. Ms. Spellings’s chief of staff, David Dunn, said in an interview that the secretary wanted to “set the record straight” and show that the department had taken the steps it could to regulate lenders. Ms. Spellings has convened a task force that is to make recommendations by the end of May on how to regulate the lists of recommended lenders at university aid offices. Ms. Spellings is also expected to face questions about the oversight of Reading First, a program designed to teach poor children to read by third grade. The department’s inspector general, John P. Higgins, has issued reports finding conflicts of interest, cronyism and bias in how officials and private consultants operated the program and awarded grants. Mr. Kennedy, in a report, added new detail Wednesday on how four officials contracted by the education agency to advise states on buying reading materials had lucrative ties with publishers. Edward Kame’enui, head of the department’s western technical assistance center in Oregon from 2002 through May 2005, earned hundreds of thousands of dollars in royalties from Pearson/Scott Foresman from 2001 to 2006, the report said. It also said that Douglas Carnine, who replaced Dr. Kame’enui in 2005, also earned royalties — $168,470 from McGraw-Hill, Houghton Mifflin and Pearson last year. Joseph Torgesen, who advised Eastern states about materials, and Sharon Vaughn, who advised Central states, also received thousands of dollars in royalties from educational publishers while representing the department, the report said. Katherine McLane, a department spokeswoman, said: “The department is deeply concerned about conflicts of interest and takes the allegations contained in Senator Kennedy’s report very seriously. “We are studying this report to determine if further actions are necessary and will act aggressively if any wrongdoing is found.” More Articles in Washington &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. House Democrats May Seek Short-Term Financing of War Lawmaker Tied to Inquiries Gives Up Seat on Committee House Votes to Give the Capital a Full Voice in Congress THE REACH OF WAR: CONGRESSIONAL MEMO; Action on Troop Reshapes Bush's Debate With Congress More Articles in Washington &#x00bb; The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics Fifth Avenue strollers, circa 1900 N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/washington/10loans.html	House Passes Ban on Gifts From Student Lenders - New York Times House Passes Ban on Gifts From Student Lenders Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 , May 9 — The House of Representatives voted overwhelmingly Wednesday to ban gifts and payments by companies to universities, showing bipartisan resolve to clean up the $85 billion industry. The vote, 414 to 3, demonstrated how politically potent the issue of paying for college has become at a time when tuition is steadily rising and millions of students depend on borrowing to finance college. “With this vote,” said Representative George Miller, the California Democrat who leads the House education committee, “the House has taken a huge step in the right direction to put a stop to those practices and make sure that the student loan programs operate on the level, in the best interests of students and families trying to pay for college.” The bill passed a day before Education Secretary Margaret Spellings was scheduled to testify before the House education committee about oversight of the industry. It comes in the wake of revelations that lenders paid universities money contingent on student loan volume, gave gifts to the financial aid administrators whom students rely on to recommend lenders, and hired financial aid officials as paid consultants. The nation’s four largest student lenders and at least 22 colleges have already signed on to a code of conduct developed by Attorney General Mr. Miller was joined by the ranking Republican on his committee, Representative Howard P. McKeon of California, in promoting the bill. “We’re stepping up today for a single, fundamental reason,” Mr. McKeon said before the vote, “to ensure our nation’s financial aid system continues to serve the needs of our students.” But he also urged that Congress be careful “not to overreach.” The bill has bipartisan support in the Senate, said Senator , Democrat of Massachusetts and chairman of the education committee. A senior Education Department official said that the agency was prepared to move quickly to draft regulations to enforce the bill. Ms. Spellings is expected to face tough questions Thursday about the department’s policing of the industry, as well as about enforcement of its own internal policies on conflicts of interest after reports that an official with oversight over the student loan database held stock in a student loan company. Ms. Spellings’s chief of staff, David Dunn, said in an interview that the secretary wanted to “set the record straight” and show that the department had taken the steps it could to regulate lenders. Ms. Spellings has convened a task force that is to make recommendations by the end of May on how to regulate the lists of recommended lenders at university aid offices. Ms. Spellings is also expected to face questions about the oversight of Reading First, a program designed to teach poor children to read by third grade. The department’s inspector general, John P. Higgins, has issued reports finding conflicts of interest, cronyism and bias in how officials and private consultants operated the program and awarded grants. Mr. Kennedy, in a report, added new detail Wednesday on how four officials contracted by the education agency to advise states on buying reading materials had lucrative ties with publishers. Edward Kame’enui, head of the department’s western technical assistance center in Oregon from 2002 through May 2005, earned hundreds of thousands of dollars in royalties from Pearson/Scott Foresman from 2001 to 2006, the report said. It also said that Douglas Carnine, who replaced Dr. Kame’enui in 2005, also earned royalties — $168,470 from McGraw-Hill, Houghton Mifflin and Pearson last year. Joseph Torgesen, who advised Eastern states about materials, and Sharon Vaughn, who advised Central states, also received thousands of dollars in royalties from educational publishers while representing the department, the report said. Katherine McLane, a department spokeswoman, said: “The department is deeply concerned about conflicts of interest and takes the allegations contained in Senator Kennedy’s report very seriously. “We are studying this report to determine if further actions are necessary and will act aggressively if any wrongdoing is found.” More Articles in Washington &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. House Democrats May Seek Short-Term Financing of War Lawmaker Tied to Inquiries Gives Up Seat on Committee House Votes to Give the Capital a Full Voice in Congress THE REACH OF WAR: CONGRESSIONAL MEMO; Action on Troop Reshapes Bush's Debate With Congress More Articles in Washington &#x00bb; The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics Fifth Avenue strollers, circa 1900 N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/12/washington/12bush.html?ex=1336622400&en=3398f10e4917fb81&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Visit by Bush Tests Beliefs and Hospitality of Students at a Catholic College - New York Times Visit by Bush Tests Beliefs and Hospitality of Students at a Catholic College Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 12, 2007 LATROBE, Pa., May 11 — Ordinarily, there would be nothing notable about the chancellor of a small Roman Catholic college in a reliably Republican county telling President Bush, as he did on Friday, “Know, Mr. President, that you are very welcome on this campus.” This should especially be so when the college president is Jim Towey, the former director of Mr. Bush’s Office of Faith-Based and Community Initiatives. But these are far from ordinary times for President Bush. In yet another sign of the troubles he is facing, even in places where he once could have expected none, the news that he would give the commencement address at St. Vincent College here on Friday was not universally welcomed on the campus, which is about 35 miles east of Pittsburgh in Westmoreland County. Rather, it set off weeks of debate and protests as this tight Benedictine campus community grappled with faith and war and an unfamiliar level of polarization. It has occasionally fallen to Mr. Towey to be the referee. In April, Mr. Towey held a campus meeting, a video of which was still posted on the college Web site Friday, where he told the students, “I think one of the most important things that we can do as a student community at a liberal arts college that is Catholic and Benedictine is to communicate ways in which our opinions can be respected and heard, and that individuals have a right to their heart-felt beliefs.” Students obliged with passionate and deliberate views. “Remember he is the president, the leader of the free world,” one male student said. “What a unique opportunity for us as a college.” Another said: “I’ve learned that every life is valuable to the very last day, hour, minute and second that Christ has given. Because of the disregard for human life in countries other than ours, which is partly fueled by our president’s war, I cannot accept him as a representation of our institution, which has given us all so much.” But a student shown on the Web video, and who, upon being spotted Friday, identified himself as George Miller, 19, urged a warmer welcome. “Yes, he has flaws, as we all do,” Mr. Miller said. “And, yes, some argue, he does not represent Benedictine values.” But, he continued, “the Benedictine tradition of hospitality is a call to welcome the very worst and the very best into our community, as though they were Christ himself.” Mr. Towey thanked the students for speaking frankly before him, “a friend of the president,” though weeks of protest followed. But the protest was muted on Friday, with most of the discontent expressed at a candlelight vigil Thursday night. Mr. Bush received warm applause upon stepping to the lectern. Wearing a purplish-blue academic robe, he did not address the war in Iraq in any detail, just once in thanking graduates who were joining the military, saying: “You knew the risks of serving in a time of war, and you have volunteered to accept those risks. You have chosen a noble calling.” Speaking of the charitable work of some students, and that of , Mr. Bush told the graduates: “Lead lives of purpose and character; make a difference in someone else’s life. And if you do, you will lead richer lives, you will build a more hopeful nation and you’ll never be disappointed.” Afterward, Mr. Miller, the student, said of Mr. Bush, “I don’t personally have a ton of respect for him.” But he said that seeing the president in person gave him a better appreciation for Mr. Bush. More Articles in Washington &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Matters of Faith Find a New Prominence on Campus A Fraternity of Faith, Dwindling but Resolute Beliefs; Schools in a California town expose ninth graders to a world of thoughts, and it seems to work. Feeling Strains, Baptist Colleges Cut Church Ties More Articles in Washington &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Bush in Accord With Democrats on Trade Deals President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds Role of F.B.I. Informer Draws Praise and Questions On Carrier in Gulf, Cheney Issues Warning to Iran Romney Works to Put Skeptics' Doubts to Rest Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/12/washington/12bush.html?ex=1336622400&en=3398f10e4917fb81&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Visit by Bush Tests Beliefs and Hospitality of Students at a Catholic College - New York Times Visit by Bush Tests Beliefs and Hospitality of Students at a Catholic College Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 12, 2007 LATROBE, Pa., May 11 — Ordinarily, there would be nothing notable about the chancellor of a small Roman Catholic college in a reliably Republican county telling President Bush, as he did on Friday, “Know, Mr. President, that you are very welcome on this campus.” This should especially be so when the college president is Jim Towey, the former director of Mr. Bush’s Office of Faith-Based and Community Initiatives. But these are far from ordinary times for President Bush. In yet another sign of the troubles he is facing, even in places where he once could have expected none, the news that he would give the commencement address at St. Vincent College here on Friday was not universally welcomed on the campus, which is about 35 miles east of Pittsburgh in Westmoreland County. Rather, it set off weeks of debate and protests as this tight Benedictine campus community grappled with faith and war and an unfamiliar level of polarization. It has occasionally fallen to Mr. Towey to be the referee. In April, Mr. Towey held a campus meeting, a video of which was still posted on the college Web site Friday, where he told the students, “I think one of the most important things that we can do as a student community at a liberal arts college that is Catholic and Benedictine is to communicate ways in which our opinions can be respected and heard, and that individuals have a right to their heart-felt beliefs.” Students obliged with passionate and deliberate views. “Remember he is the president, the leader of the free world,” one male student said. “What a unique opportunity for us as a college.” Another said: “I’ve learned that every life is valuable to the very last day, hour, minute and second that Christ has given. Because of the disregard for human life in countries other than ours, which is partly fueled by our president’s war, I cannot accept him as a representation of our institution, which has given us all so much.” But a student shown on the Web video, and who, upon being spotted Friday, identified himself as George Miller, 19, urged a warmer welcome. “Yes, he has flaws, as we all do,” Mr. Miller said. “And, yes, some argue, he does not represent Benedictine values.” But, he continued, “the Benedictine tradition of hospitality is a call to welcome the very worst and the very best into our community, as though they were Christ himself.” Mr. Towey thanked the students for speaking frankly before him, “a friend of the president,” though weeks of protest followed. But the protest was muted on Friday, with most of the discontent expressed at a candlelight vigil Thursday night. Mr. Bush received warm applause upon stepping to the lectern. Wearing a purplish-blue academic robe, he did not address the war in Iraq in any detail, just once in thanking graduates who were joining the military, saying: “You knew the risks of serving in a time of war, and you have volunteered to accept those risks. You have chosen a noble calling.” Speaking of the charitable work of some students, and that of , Mr. Bush told the graduates: “Lead lives of purpose and character; make a difference in someone else’s life. And if you do, you will lead richer lives, you will build a more hopeful nation and you’ll never be disappointed.” Afterward, Mr. Miller, the student, said of Mr. Bush, “I don’t personally have a ton of respect for him.” But he said that seeing the president in person gave him a better appreciation for Mr. Bush. More Articles in Washington &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Matters of Faith Find a New Prominence on Campus A Fraternity of Faith, Dwindling but Resolute Beliefs; Schools in a California town expose ninth graders to a world of thoughts, and it seems to work. Feeling Strains, Baptist Colleges Cut Church Ties More Articles in Washington &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Bush in Accord With Democrats on Trade Deals President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds Role of F.B.I. Informer Draws Praise and Questions On Carrier in Gulf, Cheney Issues Warning to Iran Romney Works to Put Skeptics' Doubts to Rest Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/12/nyregion/12rutgers.html?ex=1336622400&en=a41ce17b9cd86a49&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Burglary Charge Is Costly for Rutgers Class President - New York Times Burglary Charge Is Costly for Rutgers Class President Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 12, 2007 The senior class president at the campus in Livingston, N.J., will not be graduating with her classmates next week, university officials said yesterday, after being charged with burglary in the dormitory where she was a resident adviser. The student, Christa Olandria, 23, a biology major, was arrested along with another Rutgers senior, George Calhoun, 23, on Monday after they were discovered breaking into a room on the seventh floor of Lynton Towers, which houses about 700 undergraduate students, university officials said. In addition, the university police are investigating whether Ms. Olandria and Mr. Calhoun may have been involved in seven other burglaries in the dormitory that have been reported since September, according to Rhonda Harris, the chief of the Rutgers University Police Department on the school&#8217;s main campus in New Brunswick, N.J. The police said that when a student returned to a room in Lynton Towers in Livingston about 7:30 p.m. on Monday, Mr. Calhoun was found stuffing a laptop computer, a digital camera, a wallet and an iPod case into a duffel bag. They said that Ms. Olandria, who had access to a master key that could unlock the door, was standing outside the room at the time. Mr. Calhoun, who lived in another dormitory, fled during the commotion, the police said, but was later found on another floor of Lynton Towers. The two students were arrested and later released after posting $2,500 bail, the police said. Efforts to reach Ms. Olandria and Mr. Calhoun by telephone were unsuccessful yesterday. The arrest of Ms. Olandria, who was crowned the winner last year of the &#8220;Ms. R.U.&#8221; student pageant, sent tremors through the Livingston campus, where students and faculty members are preparing for graduation on Thursday. Chief Harris said that Ms. Olandria, from Rahway, N.J., had been removed as class president, and that she and Mr. Calhoun, from Jamaica, Queens, could be denied their diplomas pending a university disciplinary hearing. Joan Carbone, the executive director of residence life at Rutgers, said that she could not recall another instance in more than two decades at the university in which a resident adviser had been accused of burglarizing another student&#8217;s room. &#8220;It&#8217;s outrageous,&#8221; Ms. Carbone said. &#8220;The staff of the building feels enormously betrayed by her.&#8221; Ms. Carbone said that until now there had been no complaints about Ms. Olandria, who had been a resident adviser at Lynton Towers for the past two years, and that she had received a favorable first-year evaluation before being rehired for the current year. Fifteen resident advisers are assigned to live in Lynton Towers, receiving free room and board &#151; valued at about $8,000 this year &#151; in exchange for providing support services for students. Ms. Carbone said the advisers are screened in interviews during an application process that requires three references. Next Article in New York Region (14 of 16) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Metro Briefing | New Jersey: New Brunswick: Man Convicted In Rutgers Case Metro Briefing | New Jersey: New Brunswick: Student Patrols Expanded Rape Suspect Is Charged in Killing How Unsafe Is Rutgers, Really? Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey Next Article in New York Region (14 of 16) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Bush in Accord With Democrats on Trade Deals President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds Role of F.B.I. Informer Draws Praise and Questions On Carrier in Gulf, Cheney Issues Warning to Iran Romney Works to Put Skeptics' Doubts to Rest Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/12/nyregion/12rutgers.html?ex=1336622400&en=a41ce17b9cd86a49&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Burglary Charge Is Costly for Rutgers Class President - New York Times Burglary Charge Is Costly for Rutgers Class President Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 12, 2007 The senior class president at the campus in Livingston, N.J., will not be graduating with her classmates next week, university officials said yesterday, after being charged with burglary in the dormitory where she was a resident adviser. The student, Christa Olandria, 23, a biology major, was arrested along with another Rutgers senior, George Calhoun, 23, on Monday after they were discovered breaking into a room on the seventh floor of Lynton Towers, which houses about 700 undergraduate students, university officials said. In addition, the university police are investigating whether Ms. Olandria and Mr. Calhoun may have been involved in seven other burglaries in the dormitory that have been reported since September, according to Rhonda Harris, the chief of the Rutgers University Police Department on the school&#8217;s main campus in New Brunswick, N.J. The police said that when a student returned to a room in Lynton Towers in Livingston about 7:30 p.m. on Monday, Mr. Calhoun was found stuffing a laptop computer, a digital camera, a wallet and an iPod case into a duffel bag. They said that Ms. Olandria, who had access to a master key that could unlock the door, was standing outside the room at the time. Mr. Calhoun, who lived in another dormitory, fled during the commotion, the police said, but was later found on another floor of Lynton Towers. The two students were arrested and later released after posting $2,500 bail, the police said. Efforts to reach Ms. Olandria and Mr. Calhoun by telephone were unsuccessful yesterday. The arrest of Ms. Olandria, who was crowned the winner last year of the &#8220;Ms. R.U.&#8221; student pageant, sent tremors through the Livingston campus, where students and faculty members are preparing for graduation on Thursday. Chief Harris said that Ms. Olandria, from Rahway, N.J., had been removed as class president, and that she and Mr. Calhoun, from Jamaica, Queens, could be denied their diplomas pending a university disciplinary hearing. Joan Carbone, the executive director of residence life at Rutgers, said that she could not recall another instance in more than two decades at the university in which a resident adviser had been accused of burglarizing another student&#8217;s room. &#8220;It&#8217;s outrageous,&#8221; Ms. Carbone said. &#8220;The staff of the building feels enormously betrayed by her.&#8221; Ms. Carbone said that until now there had been no complaints about Ms. Olandria, who had been a resident adviser at Lynton Towers for the past two years, and that she had received a favorable first-year evaluation before being rehired for the current year. Fifteen resident advisers are assigned to live in Lynton Towers, receiving free room and board &#151; valued at about $8,000 this year &#151; in exchange for providing support services for students. Ms. Carbone said the advisers are screened in interviews during an application process that requires three references. Next Article in New York Region (14 of 16) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Metro Briefing | New Jersey: New Brunswick: Man Convicted In Rutgers Case Metro Briefing | New Jersey: New Brunswick: Student Patrols Expanded Rape Suspect Is Charged in Killing How Unsafe Is Rutgers, Really? Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey Next Article in New York Region (14 of 16) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Bush in Accord With Democrats on Trade Deals President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds Role of F.B.I. Informer Draws Praise and Questions On Carrier in Gulf, Cheney Issues Warning to Iran Romney Works to Put Skeptics' Doubts to Rest Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/education/11purdue.html?ex=1336536000&en=22f791849c0d2c18&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Purdue Will Reinvestigate Its Professor Who Claimed Desktop Fusion - New York Times Purdue Will Reinvestigate Its Professor Who Claimed Desktop Fusion Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 Three months after it cleared him of research misconduct, has begun a new inquiry into a professor who claims to have generated nuclear fusion in a desktop experiment, the university acknowledged yesterday. Skip to next paragraph Rusi P. Taleyarkhan was cleared of misconduct in an earlier inquiry. Researcher Cleared of Misconduct, but Case Is Still Murky The new inquiry goes beyond the focus of an earlier one, which looked at whether the professor, Rusi P. Taleyarkhan, improperly omitted himself as an author on two scientific papers. For the first time, a committee is examining whether the underlying research might have been fraudulent. Meanwhile, details of the earlier inquiry have emerged in a report by a Congressional subcommittee that reviewed Purdue’s actions. Although the earlier inquiry cleared Dr. Taleyarkhan of misconduct, it described “what might be characterized most favorably as severe lack of judgment” and said he had “abused his privilege as senior scientist,” according to the report from the Congressional subcommittee. Dr. Taleyarkhan said last night in an e-mail message that the subcommittee’s report represents “a gross travesty of justice.” He asked, “Where are the Jesse Jacksons and Al Sharptons of the Asian community during this episode that has caused this biased and openly one-sided smear campaign?” In scientific papers starting in 2002, Dr. Taleyarkhan, a professor of nuclear engineering, said the force of sound waves could collapse bubbles in a liquid and generate temperatures hot enough for hydrogen atoms to fuse and release energy, similar to how the sun makes heat and light. But other scientists have not been able to reproduce the process, called bubble fusion or sonofusion. Purdue’s handling of the controversy has been criticized inside and outside the university. “I think they fell short of what we would expect of them,” said Representative Brad Miller, a Democrat of North Carolina and the chairman of the investigations and oversight subcommittee of the House Committee on Science and Technology. The subcommittee, citing the need to ensure the integrity of federally financed research, requested copies of Purdue’s findings in March. On Wednesday, Mr. Miller sent to Martin C. Jischke, Purdue’s president, a letter and an accompanying memorandum by the subcommittee’s staff that strongly criticized Purdue. While the subcommittee did not release Purdue’s reports, the memorandum quotes from them and gives a clear chronology of Purdue’s actions. University administrators have said confidentiality requires them to withhold almost all information. The memorandum cites “numerous failures” in how Purdue addressed concerns about Dr. Taleyarkhan’s research. It says that Purdue did not follow its procedures, that the inquiry was not thorough and that the inquiry committee appeared to ignore the university’s definition of research misconduct. In a statement released last night, Purdue officials said they would address the concerns raised in the letter and the memorandum. Sally Mason, Purdue’s provost, said that soon after Dr. Taleyarkhan was cleared in February, the university received new accusations that merited a new inquiry. “We will proceed systematically and fairly,” Dr. Mason said, “and in the end, we will take whatever action is dictated by the evidence.” Up to now, Purdue has focused on two scientific papers published in 2005 that Dr. Taleyarkhan hailed as independent confirmation of his sonofusion results. But the experiments, performed in February 2004, were done using Dr. Taleyarkhan’s apparatus at Purdue, not at an independent laboratory, and one of the authors, Yiban Xu, joined Dr. Taleyarkhan’s group as a postdoctoral researcher a few months later. A second author, Adam Butt, a graduate student, also joined Dr. Taleyarkhan’s group. Further, in response to a fact-finding committee convened by the nuclear engineering school, Mr. Butt signed a statement that he did not participate in any of the experiments or the analysis of the data and that he had been added as an author to one of the papers a week before submission and was not aware that he was on the second paper until a week before it was presented at a conference. Dr. Xu declined to answer questions about the papers, but the committee noted similarities between them and several of Dr. Taleyarkhan’s. That fact-finding report was forwarded to Purdue administrators in February 2006. Purdue’s procedure for handling misconduct allegations is similar to other universities’ in calling for a two-step process: an inquiry committee evaluates the allegation, and if it finds sufficient evidence, then a full investigation is carried out. But instead of starting an inquiry, Purdue administrators asked first for a “review” of the allegations, a step that is not included in its misconduct policy. The review led to the appointment of an inquiry committee in July. According to the report from Congress, that committee in large part concurred with the findings of the nuclear engineering school’s fact-finding report, that it was “highly unlikely” that the experiment by Dr. Xu and Mr. Butt could be considered independent confirmation, and that Dr. Taleyarkhan had placed junior scientists in “precarious positions” to promote his research. But the inquiry deemed these to be failures of judgment rather than research misconduct and said an investigation was not needed. The Congressional subcommittee staff wrote, “It is difficult to understand how the inquiry committee could have then decided that Dr. Taleyarkhan’s actions did not constitute research misconduct,” which Purdue’s policy defines as “serious deviations” from commonly accepted academic practices. In his letter to Dr. Jischke, Mr. Miller expressed disappointment that the three members appointed to the new committee had served on earlier ones. He said Dr. Jischke had agreed to add one or more outside researchers. “I sincerely hope that the next inquiry will be conducted in a manner worthy of your great institution,” Mr. Miller wrote. Next Article in Education (2 of 5) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Congress Asks Purdue for Fusion Claim Findings Next Article in Education (2 of 5) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Bush in Accord With Democrats on Trade Deals President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds Role of F.B.I. Informer Draws Praise and Questions On Carrier in Gulf, Cheney Issues Warning to Iran Romney Works to Put Skeptics' Doubts to Rest Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/education/11purdue.html?ex=1336536000&en=22f791849c0d2c18&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Purdue Will Reinvestigate Its Professor Who Claimed Desktop Fusion - New York Times Purdue Will Reinvestigate Its Professor Who Claimed Desktop Fusion Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 Three months after it cleared him of research misconduct, has begun a new inquiry into a professor who claims to have generated nuclear fusion in a desktop experiment, the university acknowledged yesterday. Skip to next paragraph Rusi P. Taleyarkhan was cleared of misconduct in an earlier inquiry. Researcher Cleared of Misconduct, but Case Is Still Murky The new inquiry goes beyond the focus of an earlier one, which looked at whether the professor, Rusi P. Taleyarkhan, improperly omitted himself as an author on two scientific papers. For the first time, a committee is examining whether the underlying research might have been fraudulent. Meanwhile, details of the earlier inquiry have emerged in a report by a Congressional subcommittee that reviewed Purdue’s actions. Although the earlier inquiry cleared Dr. Taleyarkhan of misconduct, it described “what might be characterized most favorably as severe lack of judgment” and said he had “abused his privilege as senior scientist,” according to the report from the Congressional subcommittee. Dr. Taleyarkhan said last night in an e-mail message that the subcommittee’s report represents “a gross travesty of justice.” He asked, “Where are the Jesse Jacksons and Al Sharptons of the Asian community during this episode that has caused this biased and openly one-sided smear campaign?” In scientific papers starting in 2002, Dr. Taleyarkhan, a professor of nuclear engineering, said the force of sound waves could collapse bubbles in a liquid and generate temperatures hot enough for hydrogen atoms to fuse and release energy, similar to how the sun makes heat and light. But other scientists have not been able to reproduce the process, called bubble fusion or sonofusion. Purdue’s handling of the controversy has been criticized inside and outside the university. “I think they fell short of what we would expect of them,” said Representative Brad Miller, a Democrat of North Carolina and the chairman of the investigations and oversight subcommittee of the House Committee on Science and Technology. The subcommittee, citing the need to ensure the integrity of federally financed research, requested copies of Purdue’s findings in March. On Wednesday, Mr. Miller sent to Martin C. Jischke, Purdue’s president, a letter and an accompanying memorandum by the subcommittee’s staff that strongly criticized Purdue. While the subcommittee did not release Purdue’s reports, the memorandum quotes from them and gives a clear chronology of Purdue’s actions. University administrators have said confidentiality requires them to withhold almost all information. The memorandum cites “numerous failures” in how Purdue addressed concerns about Dr. Taleyarkhan’s research. It says that Purdue did not follow its procedures, that the inquiry was not thorough and that the inquiry committee appeared to ignore the university’s definition of research misconduct. In a statement released last night, Purdue officials said they would address the concerns raised in the letter and the memorandum. Sally Mason, Purdue’s provost, said that soon after Dr. Taleyarkhan was cleared in February, the university received new accusations that merited a new inquiry. “We will proceed systematically and fairly,” Dr. Mason said, “and in the end, we will take whatever action is dictated by the evidence.” Up to now, Purdue has focused on two scientific papers published in 2005 that Dr. Taleyarkhan hailed as independent confirmation of his sonofusion results. But the experiments, performed in February 2004, were done using Dr. Taleyarkhan’s apparatus at Purdue, not at an independent laboratory, and one of the authors, Yiban Xu, joined Dr. Taleyarkhan’s group as a postdoctoral researcher a few months later. A second author, Adam Butt, a graduate student, also joined Dr. Taleyarkhan’s group. Further, in response to a fact-finding committee convened by the nuclear engineering school, Mr. Butt signed a statement that he did not participate in any of the experiments or the analysis of the data and that he had been added as an author to one of the papers a week before submission and was not aware that he was on the second paper until a week before it was presented at a conference. Dr. Xu declined to answer questions about the papers, but the committee noted similarities between them and several of Dr. Taleyarkhan’s. That fact-finding report was forwarded to Purdue administrators in February 2006. Purdue’s procedure for handling misconduct allegations is similar to other universities’ in calling for a two-step process: an inquiry committee evaluates the allegation, and if it finds sufficient evidence, then a full investigation is carried out. But instead of starting an inquiry, Purdue administrators asked first for a “review” of the allegations, a step that is not included in its misconduct policy. The review led to the appointment of an inquiry committee in July. According to the report from Congress, that committee in large part concurred with the findings of the nuclear engineering school’s fact-finding report, that it was “highly unlikely” that the experiment by Dr. Xu and Mr. Butt could be considered independent confirmation, and that Dr. Taleyarkhan had placed junior scientists in “precarious positions” to promote his research. But the inquiry deemed these to be failures of judgment rather than research misconduct and said an investigation was not needed. The Congressional subcommittee staff wrote, “It is difficult to understand how the inquiry committee could have then decided that Dr. Taleyarkhan’s actions did not constitute research misconduct,” which Purdue’s policy defines as “serious deviations” from commonly accepted academic practices. In his letter to Dr. Jischke, Mr. Miller expressed disappointment that the three members appointed to the new committee had served on earlier ones. He said Dr. Jischke had agreed to add one or more outside researchers. “I sincerely hope that the next inquiry will be conducted in a manner worthy of your great institution,” Mr. Miller wrote. Next Article in Education (2 of 5) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Congress Asks Purdue for Fusion Claim Findings Next Article in Education (2 of 5) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Bush in Accord With Democrats on Trade Deals President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds Role of F.B.I. Informer Draws Praise and Questions On Carrier in Gulf, Cheney Issues Warning to Iran Romney Works to Put Skeptics' Doubts to Rest Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/washington/11spellings.html?ex=1336536000&en=5b92bff5be24b5ef&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Spellings Rejects Criticism on Student Loan Scandal - New York Times Spellings Rejects Criticism on Student Loan Scandal Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 WASHINGTON, May 10 — With scandal rattling the $85 billion industry, Education Secretary Margaret Spellings argued at a House hearing on Thursday that she lacked legal authority to clamp down on many abuses. Skip to next paragraph Doug Mills/The New York Times Education Secretary Margaret Spellings at a hearing on Thursday. Ms. Spellings faced pointed questioning at the hearing from Congressional Democrats, who accused her department of mismanagement and complacency. In about three hours of testimony before the House education committee, Ms. Spellings portrayed her department’s oversight of federal lending programs as vigorous, but said that the world of private lending, which has become increasingly important as college costs have outstripped federal loan programs, was mostly beyond her regulatory authority. She told the panel that the entire student loan system needed overhaul, saying, “The system is redundant, it’s byzantine and it’s broken.” Several Democrats, led by Representative George Miller, questioned her aggressively, asserting that she had regulatory power and moral influence that she had neglected to wield to stop loan companies from paying universities or giving gifts, trips, stock and consulting payments to the university financial aid officers who guide students toward loans. Mr. Miller, the California Democrat who heads the education committee, also took up a separate issue of questionable federal subsidy payments to lenders. He particularly criticized Ms. Spellings’s decision to ignore a recommendation of the department’s inspector general that she recover $278 million in federal subsidy payments improperly obtained by Nelnet, a lender based in Nebraska. He also said the Justice Department was now reviewing the inspector general’s September audit that found Nelnet ineligible for those payments. After the hearing, a Justice Department spokesman, Charles Miller, did not contradict Representative Miller’s assertions, but said, “We have no comment at this time.” Mr. Miller openly dismissed Ms. Spellings’s portrayal of her department’s monitoring of student lending as robust. He also criticized the department for its oversight of Reading First, a program designed to teach poor children to read that has been besieged by reports of conflicts of interest among Education Department consultants. “When I look at the whole body of evidence that has been amassed about both the student loan and Reading First programs, it is clear that — at a minimum — the Education Department’s oversight failures have been monumental,” he said. “We monitor these programs vigorously,” Ms. Spellings replied. “Who is monitoring?” Mr. Miller shot back. “Do they have blinders on?” Ms. Spellings countered that her critics were focusing too narrowly on scattered abuses in student lending, without offering much constructive help in changing the system, which she said was “crying out for reform.” “We cannot fix this broken enterprise by cherry-picking a few narrow issues to address,” she said. “We must peel back the layers, increase transparency, streamline the entire system and provide more aid to students.” Ms. Spellings said she would convene a meeting of other federal agencies that deal with lending issues, including the Federal Trade Commission, the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Federal Reserve, to forge a coherent federal response to improper relationships between lenders and universities. Lenders have come under scrutiny in recent months as New York’s attorney general, , has highlighted practices of lenders to get on university preferred lender lists, which students rely on in seeking loans. Mr. Cuomo on Thursday announced a new agreement with , a student loan company that engaged in some of the questionable practices, and the CIT Group, the company’s parent. Under the terms of the new agreement, CIT will pay $3 million to a national fund for educating high school students and their parents about financial aid. The company also signed a code of conduct developed by Mr. Cuomo, governing relationships between colleges and lenders. The department has also come under scrutiny from Congress for its failure to halt millions of dollars in subsidy payments to lenders that exploited loopholes to inflate their eligibility for subsidies on the student loans, including those paid to Nelnet. Mr. Miller and other lawmakers pressed Ms. Spellings, the lone witness, to explain her decision in January to allow Nelnet, a major contributor to Republican campaigns, to keep the $278 million. In exchange, Nelnet agreed not to bill for nearly $900 million in subsidies it believed it was eligible for. Ms. Spellings said that she thought the fact that the department had been paying the subsidies without question could have put it in legal jeopardy and that Nelnet might have prevailed in a lawsuit. “The reason that I settled was that there was a risk of nearly $900 million that this government was in danger of losing if we lost a lawsuit,” Ms. Spellings said. Representative John F. Tierney, Democrat of Massachusetts, said, “It boggles my mind — we allowed somebody to get away essentially with theft.” Mr. Miller declined to answer questions after the hearing about any Justice Department action against Nelnet. The loan company itself hinted to investors in a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission earlier this year that the matter might not be closed, saying that “the company was informed by the department that a civil attorney with the Department of Justice has opened a file regarding this issue.” Ben Kiser, a Nelnet spokesman, said in an interview, “We are fully cooperating with the Department of Justice and are confident that there are no grounds for any action against Nelnet.” Jonathan D. Glater contributed reporting. More Articles in Washington &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Federal Student Loan Official Is Resigning Whistle-Blower on Student Aid Is Vindicated Education Dept. Starts Inquiry Into Possible Loan Conflicts Some Access to Student Finance Data Is Restored More Articles in Washington &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Bush in Accord With Democrats on Trade Deals President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds Role of F.B.I. Informer Draws Praise and Questions On Carrier in Gulf, Cheney Issues Warning to Iran Romney Works to Put Skeptics' Doubts to Rest Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/washington/11spellings.html?ex=1336536000&en=5b92bff5be24b5ef&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Spellings Rejects Criticism on Student Loan Scandal - New York Times Spellings Rejects Criticism on Student Loan Scandal Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 WASHINGTON, May 10 — With scandal rattling the $85 billion industry, Education Secretary Margaret Spellings argued at a House hearing on Thursday that she lacked legal authority to clamp down on many abuses. Skip to next paragraph Doug Mills/The New York Times Education Secretary Margaret Spellings at a hearing on Thursday. Ms. Spellings faced pointed questioning at the hearing from Congressional Democrats, who accused her department of mismanagement and complacency. In about three hours of testimony before the House education committee, Ms. Spellings portrayed her department’s oversight of federal lending programs as vigorous, but said that the world of private lending, which has become increasingly important as college costs have outstripped federal loan programs, was mostly beyond her regulatory authority. She told the panel that the entire student loan system needed overhaul, saying, “The system is redundant, it’s byzantine and it’s broken.” Several Democrats, led by Representative George Miller, questioned her aggressively, asserting that she had regulatory power and moral influence that she had neglected to wield to stop loan companies from paying universities or giving gifts, trips, stock and consulting payments to the university financial aid officers who guide students toward loans. Mr. Miller, the California Democrat who heads the education committee, also took up a separate issue of questionable federal subsidy payments to lenders. He particularly criticized Ms. Spellings’s decision to ignore a recommendation of the department’s inspector general that she recover $278 million in federal subsidy payments improperly obtained by Nelnet, a lender based in Nebraska. He also said the Justice Department was now reviewing the inspector general’s September audit that found Nelnet ineligible for those payments. After the hearing, a Justice Department spokesman, Charles Miller, did not contradict Representative Miller’s assertions, but said, “We have no comment at this time.” Mr. Miller openly dismissed Ms. Spellings’s portrayal of her department’s monitoring of student lending as robust. He also criticized the department for its oversight of Reading First, a program designed to teach poor children to read that has been besieged by reports of conflicts of interest among Education Department consultants. “When I look at the whole body of evidence that has been amassed about both the student loan and Reading First programs, it is clear that — at a minimum — the Education Department’s oversight failures have been monumental,” he said. “We monitor these programs vigorously,” Ms. Spellings replied. “Who is monitoring?” Mr. Miller shot back. “Do they have blinders on?” Ms. Spellings countered that her critics were focusing too narrowly on scattered abuses in student lending, without offering much constructive help in changing the system, which she said was “crying out for reform.” “We cannot fix this broken enterprise by cherry-picking a few narrow issues to address,” she said. “We must peel back the layers, increase transparency, streamline the entire system and provide more aid to students.” Ms. Spellings said she would convene a meeting of other federal agencies that deal with lending issues, including the Federal Trade Commission, the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Federal Reserve, to forge a coherent federal response to improper relationships between lenders and universities. Lenders have come under scrutiny in recent months as New York’s attorney general, , has highlighted practices of lenders to get on university preferred lender lists, which students rely on in seeking loans. Mr. Cuomo on Thursday announced a new agreement with , a student loan company that engaged in some of the questionable practices, and the CIT Group, the company’s parent. Under the terms of the new agreement, CIT will pay $3 million to a national fund for educating high school students and their parents about financial aid. The company also signed a code of conduct developed by Mr. Cuomo, governing relationships between colleges and lenders. The department has also come under scrutiny from Congress for its failure to halt millions of dollars in subsidy payments to lenders that exploited loopholes to inflate their eligibility for subsidies on the student loans, including those paid to Nelnet. Mr. Miller and other lawmakers pressed Ms. Spellings, the lone witness, to explain her decision in January to allow Nelnet, a major contributor to Republican campaigns, to keep the $278 million. In exchange, Nelnet agreed not to bill for nearly $900 million in subsidies it believed it was eligible for. Ms. Spellings said that she thought the fact that the department had been paying the subsidies without question could have put it in legal jeopardy and that Nelnet might have prevailed in a lawsuit. “The reason that I settled was that there was a risk of nearly $900 million that this government was in danger of losing if we lost a lawsuit,” Ms. Spellings said. Representative John F. Tierney, Democrat of Massachusetts, said, “It boggles my mind — we allowed somebody to get away essentially with theft.” Mr. Miller declined to answer questions after the hearing about any Justice Department action against Nelnet. The loan company itself hinted to investors in a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission earlier this year that the matter might not be closed, saying that “the company was informed by the department that a civil attorney with the Department of Justice has opened a file regarding this issue.” Ben Kiser, a Nelnet spokesman, said in an interview, “We are fully cooperating with the Department of Justice and are confident that there are no grounds for any action against Nelnet.” Jonathan D. Glater contributed reporting. More Articles in Washington &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Federal Student Loan Official Is Resigning Whistle-Blower on Student Aid Is Vindicated Education Dept. Starts Inquiry Into Possible Loan Conflicts Some Access to Student Finance Data Is Restored More Articles in Washington &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Bush in Accord With Democrats on Trade Deals President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds Role of F.B.I. Informer Draws Praise and Questions On Carrier in Gulf, Cheney Issues Warning to Iran Romney Works to Put Skeptics' Doubts to Rest Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/washington/11spellings.html	Spellings Rejects Criticism on Student Loan Scandal - New York Times Spellings Rejects Criticism on Student Loan Scandal Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 WASHINGTON, May 10 — With scandal rattling the $85 billion industry, Education Secretary Margaret Spellings argued at a House hearing on Thursday that she lacked legal authority to clamp down on many abuses. Skip to next paragraph Doug Mills/The New York Times Education Secretary Margaret Spellings at a hearing on Thursday. Ms. Spellings faced pointed questioning at the hearing from Congressional Democrats, who accused her department of mismanagement and complacency. In about three hours of testimony before the House education committee, Ms. Spellings portrayed her department’s oversight of federal lending programs as vigorous, but said that the world of private lending, which has become increasingly important as college costs have outstripped federal loan programs, was mostly beyond her regulatory authority. She told the panel that the entire student loan system needed overhaul, saying, “The system is redundant, it’s byzantine and it’s broken.” Several Democrats, led by Representative George Miller, questioned her aggressively, asserting that she had regulatory power and moral influence that she had neglected to wield to stop loan companies from paying universities or giving gifts, trips, stock and consulting payments to the university financial aid officers who guide students toward loans. Mr. Miller, the California Democrat who heads the education committee, also took up a separate issue of questionable federal subsidy payments to lenders. He particularly criticized Ms. Spellings’s decision to ignore a recommendation of the department’s inspector general that she recover $278 million in federal subsidy payments improperly obtained by Nelnet, a lender based in Nebraska. He also said the Justice Department was now reviewing the inspector general’s September audit that found Nelnet ineligible for those payments. After the hearing, a Justice Department spokesman, Charles Miller, did not contradict Representative Miller’s assertions, but said, “We have no comment at this time.” Mr. Miller openly dismissed Ms. Spellings’s portrayal of her department’s monitoring of student lending as robust. He also criticized the department for its oversight of Reading First, a program designed to teach poor children to read that has been besieged by reports of conflicts of interest among Education Department consultants. “When I look at the whole body of evidence that has been amassed about both the student loan and Reading First programs, it is clear that — at a minimum — the Education Department’s oversight failures have been monumental,” he said. “We monitor these programs vigorously,” Ms. Spellings replied. “Who is monitoring?” Mr. Miller shot back. “Do they have blinders on?” Ms. Spellings countered that her critics were focusing too narrowly on scattered abuses in student lending, without offering much constructive help in changing the system, which she said was “crying out for reform.” “We cannot fix this broken enterprise by cherry-picking a few narrow issues to address,” she said. “We must peel back the layers, increase transparency, streamline the entire system and provide more aid to students.” Ms. Spellings said she would convene a meeting of other federal agencies that deal with lending issues, including the Federal Trade Commission, the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Federal Reserve, to forge a coherent federal response to improper relationships between lenders and universities. Lenders have come under scrutiny in recent months as New York’s attorney general, , has highlighted practices of lenders to get on university preferred lender lists, which students rely on in seeking loans. Mr. Cuomo on Thursday announced a new agreement with , a student loan company that engaged in some of the questionable practices, and the CIT Group, the company’s parent. Under the terms of the new agreement, CIT will pay $3 million to a national fund for educating high school students and their parents about financial aid. The company also signed a code of conduct developed by Mr. Cuomo, governing relationships between colleges and lenders. The department has also come under scrutiny from Congress for its failure to halt millions of dollars in subsidy payments to lenders that exploited loopholes to inflate their eligibility for subsidies on the student loans, including those paid to Nelnet. Mr. Miller and other lawmakers pressed Ms. Spellings, the lone witness, to explain her decision in January to allow Nelnet, a major contributor to Republican campaigns, to keep the $278 million. In exchange, Nelnet agreed not to bill for nearly $900 million in subsidies it believed it was eligible for. Ms. Spellings said that she thought the fact that the department had been paying the subsidies without question could have put it in legal jeopardy and that Nelnet might have prevailed in a lawsuit. “The reason that I settled was that there was a risk of nearly $900 million that this government was in danger of losing if we lost a lawsuit,” Ms. Spellings said. Representative John F. Tierney, Democrat of Massachusetts, said, “It boggles my mind — we allowed somebody to get away essentially with theft.” Mr. Miller declined to answer questions after the hearing about any Justice Department action against Nelnet. The loan company itself hinted to investors in a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission earlier this year that the matter might not be closed, saying that “the company was informed by the department that a civil attorney with the Department of Justice has opened a file regarding this issue.” Ben Kiser, a Nelnet spokesman, said in an interview, “We are fully cooperating with the Department of Justice and are confident that there are no grounds for any action against Nelnet.” Jonathan D. Glater contributed reporting. More Articles in Washington &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Federal Student Loan Official Is Resigning Whistle-Blower on Student Aid Is Vindicated Education Dept. Starts Inquiry Into Possible Loan Conflicts Some Access to Student Finance Data Is Restored More Articles in Washington &#x00bb; The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics Mojave Desert, "The California Limited" 1901 N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/washington/11spellings.html	Spellings Rejects Criticism on Student Loan Scandal - New York Times Spellings Rejects Criticism on Student Loan Scandal Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 WASHINGTON, May 10 — With scandal rattling the $85 billion industry, Education Secretary Margaret Spellings argued at a House hearing on Thursday that she lacked legal authority to clamp down on many abuses. Skip to next paragraph Doug Mills/The New York Times Education Secretary Margaret Spellings at a hearing on Thursday. Ms. Spellings faced pointed questioning at the hearing from Congressional Democrats, who accused her department of mismanagement and complacency. In about three hours of testimony before the House education committee, Ms. Spellings portrayed her department’s oversight of federal lending programs as vigorous, but said that the world of private lending, which has become increasingly important as college costs have outstripped federal loan programs, was mostly beyond her regulatory authority. She told the panel that the entire student loan system needed overhaul, saying, “The system is redundant, it’s byzantine and it’s broken.” Several Democrats, led by Representative George Miller, questioned her aggressively, asserting that she had regulatory power and moral influence that she had neglected to wield to stop loan companies from paying universities or giving gifts, trips, stock and consulting payments to the university financial aid officers who guide students toward loans. Mr. Miller, the California Democrat who heads the education committee, also took up a separate issue of questionable federal subsidy payments to lenders. He particularly criticized Ms. Spellings’s decision to ignore a recommendation of the department’s inspector general that she recover $278 million in federal subsidy payments improperly obtained by Nelnet, a lender based in Nebraska. He also said the Justice Department was now reviewing the inspector general’s September audit that found Nelnet ineligible for those payments. After the hearing, a Justice Department spokesman, Charles Miller, did not contradict Representative Miller’s assertions, but said, “We have no comment at this time.” Mr. Miller openly dismissed Ms. Spellings’s portrayal of her department’s monitoring of student lending as robust. He also criticized the department for its oversight of Reading First, a program designed to teach poor children to read that has been besieged by reports of conflicts of interest among Education Department consultants. “When I look at the whole body of evidence that has been amassed about both the student loan and Reading First programs, it is clear that — at a minimum — the Education Department’s oversight failures have been monumental,” he said. “We monitor these programs vigorously,” Ms. Spellings replied. “Who is monitoring?” Mr. Miller shot back. “Do they have blinders on?” Ms. Spellings countered that her critics were focusing too narrowly on scattered abuses in student lending, without offering much constructive help in changing the system, which she said was “crying out for reform.” “We cannot fix this broken enterprise by cherry-picking a few narrow issues to address,” she said. “We must peel back the layers, increase transparency, streamline the entire system and provide more aid to students.” Ms. Spellings said she would convene a meeting of other federal agencies that deal with lending issues, including the Federal Trade Commission, the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Federal Reserve, to forge a coherent federal response to improper relationships between lenders and universities. Lenders have come under scrutiny in recent months as New York’s attorney general, , has highlighted practices of lenders to get on university preferred lender lists, which students rely on in seeking loans. Mr. Cuomo on Thursday announced a new agreement with , a student loan company that engaged in some of the questionable practices, and the CIT Group, the company’s parent. Under the terms of the new agreement, CIT will pay $3 million to a national fund for educating high school students and their parents about financial aid. The company also signed a code of conduct developed by Mr. Cuomo, governing relationships between colleges and lenders. The department has also come under scrutiny from Congress for its failure to halt millions of dollars in subsidy payments to lenders that exploited loopholes to inflate their eligibility for subsidies on the student loans, including those paid to Nelnet. Mr. Miller and other lawmakers pressed Ms. Spellings, the lone witness, to explain her decision in January to allow Nelnet, a major contributor to Republican campaigns, to keep the $278 million. In exchange, Nelnet agreed not to bill for nearly $900 million in subsidies it believed it was eligible for. Ms. Spellings said that she thought the fact that the department had been paying the subsidies without question could have put it in legal jeopardy and that Nelnet might have prevailed in a lawsuit. “The reason that I settled was that there was a risk of nearly $900 million that this government was in danger of losing if we lost a lawsuit,” Ms. Spellings said. Representative John F. Tierney, Democrat of Massachusetts, said, “It boggles my mind — we allowed somebody to get away essentially with theft.” Mr. Miller declined to answer questions after the hearing about any Justice Department action against Nelnet. The loan company itself hinted to investors in a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission earlier this year that the matter might not be closed, saying that “the company was informed by the department that a civil attorney with the Department of Justice has opened a file regarding this issue.” Ben Kiser, a Nelnet spokesman, said in an interview, “We are fully cooperating with the Department of Justice and are confident that there are no grounds for any action against Nelnet.” Jonathan D. Glater contributed reporting. More Articles in Washington &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Federal Student Loan Official Is Resigning Whistle-Blower on Student Aid Is Vindicated Education Dept. Starts Inquiry Into Possible Loan Conflicts Some Access to Student Finance Data Is Restored More Articles in Washington &#x00bb; The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics Mojave Desert, "The California Limited" 1901 N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/12/nyregion/12rutgers.html	Burglary Charge Is Costly for Rutgers Class President - New York Times Burglary Charge Is Costly for Rutgers Class President Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 12, 2007 The senior class president at the campus in Livingston, N.J., will not be graduating with her classmates next week, university officials said yesterday, after being charged with burglary in the dormitory where she was a resident adviser. The student, Christa Olandria, 23, a biology major, was arrested along with another Rutgers senior, George Calhoun, 23, on Monday after they were discovered breaking into a room on the seventh floor of Lynton Towers, which houses about 700 undergraduate students, university officials said. In addition, the university police are investigating whether Ms. Olandria and Mr. Calhoun may have been involved in seven other burglaries in the dormitory that have been reported since September, according to Rhonda Harris, the chief of the Rutgers University Police Department on the school&#8217;s main campus in New Brunswick, N.J. The police said that when a student returned to a room in Lynton Towers in Livingston about 7:30 p.m. on Monday, Mr. Calhoun was found stuffing a laptop computer, a digital camera, a wallet and an iPod case into a duffel bag. They said that Ms. Olandria, who had access to a master key that could unlock the door, was standing outside the room at the time. Mr. Calhoun, who lived in another dormitory, fled during the commotion, the police said, but was later found on another floor of Lynton Towers. The two students were arrested and later released after posting $2,500 bail, the police said. Efforts to reach Ms. Olandria and Mr. Calhoun by telephone were unsuccessful yesterday. The arrest of Ms. Olandria, who was crowned the winner last year of the &#8220;Ms. R.U.&#8221; student pageant, sent tremors through the Livingston campus, where students and faculty members are preparing for graduation on Thursday. Chief Harris said that Ms. Olandria, from Rahway, N.J., had been removed as class president, and that she and Mr. Calhoun, from Jamaica, Queens, could be denied their diplomas pending a university disciplinary hearing. Joan Carbone, the executive director of residence life at Rutgers, said that she could not recall another instance in more than two decades at the university in which a resident adviser had been accused of burglarizing another student&#8217;s room. &#8220;It&#8217;s outrageous,&#8221; Ms. Carbone said. &#8220;The staff of the building feels enormously betrayed by her.&#8221; Ms. Carbone said that until now there had been no complaints about Ms. Olandria, who had been a resident adviser at Lynton Towers for the past two years, and that she had received a favorable first-year evaluation before being rehired for the current year. Fifteen resident advisers are assigned to live in Lynton Towers, receiving free room and board &#151; valued at about $8,000 this year &#151; in exchange for providing support services for students. Ms. Carbone said the advisers are screened in interviews during an application process that requires three references. Next Article in New York Region (14 of 16) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Metro Briefing | New Jersey: New Brunswick: Man Convicted In Rutgers Case Metro Briefing | New Jersey: New Brunswick: Student Patrols Expanded Rape Suspect Is Charged in Killing How Unsafe Is Rutgers, Really? Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey Next Article in New York Region (14 of 16) &#x00bb; The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics Lady Liberty in Times Square, 1945 N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/12/nyregion/12rutgers.html	Burglary Charge Is Costly for Rutgers Class President - New York Times Burglary Charge Is Costly for Rutgers Class President Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 12, 2007 The senior class president at the campus in Livingston, N.J., will not be graduating with her classmates next week, university officials said yesterday, after being charged with burglary in the dormitory where she was a resident adviser. The student, Christa Olandria, 23, a biology major, was arrested along with another Rutgers senior, George Calhoun, 23, on Monday after they were discovered breaking into a room on the seventh floor of Lynton Towers, which houses about 700 undergraduate students, university officials said. In addition, the university police are investigating whether Ms. Olandria and Mr. Calhoun may have been involved in seven other burglaries in the dormitory that have been reported since September, according to Rhonda Harris, the chief of the Rutgers University Police Department on the school&#8217;s main campus in New Brunswick, N.J. The police said that when a student returned to a room in Lynton Towers in Livingston about 7:30 p.m. on Monday, Mr. Calhoun was found stuffing a laptop computer, a digital camera, a wallet and an iPod case into a duffel bag. They said that Ms. Olandria, who had access to a master key that could unlock the door, was standing outside the room at the time. Mr. Calhoun, who lived in another dormitory, fled during the commotion, the police said, but was later found on another floor of Lynton Towers. The two students were arrested and later released after posting $2,500 bail, the police said. Efforts to reach Ms. Olandria and Mr. Calhoun by telephone were unsuccessful yesterday. The arrest of Ms. Olandria, who was crowned the winner last year of the &#8220;Ms. R.U.&#8221; student pageant, sent tremors through the Livingston campus, where students and faculty members are preparing for graduation on Thursday. Chief Harris said that Ms. Olandria, from Rahway, N.J., had been removed as class president, and that she and Mr. Calhoun, from Jamaica, Queens, could be denied their diplomas pending a university disciplinary hearing. Joan Carbone, the executive director of residence life at Rutgers, said that she could not recall another instance in more than two decades at the university in which a resident adviser had been accused of burglarizing another student&#8217;s room. &#8220;It&#8217;s outrageous,&#8221; Ms. Carbone said. &#8220;The staff of the building feels enormously betrayed by her.&#8221; Ms. Carbone said that until now there had been no complaints about Ms. Olandria, who had been a resident adviser at Lynton Towers for the past two years, and that she had received a favorable first-year evaluation before being rehired for the current year. Fifteen resident advisers are assigned to live in Lynton Towers, receiving free room and board &#151; valued at about $8,000 this year &#151; in exchange for providing support services for students. Ms. Carbone said the advisers are screened in interviews during an application process that requires three references. Next Article in New York Region (14 of 16) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Metro Briefing | New Jersey: New Brunswick: Man Convicted In Rutgers Case Metro Briefing | New Jersey: New Brunswick: Student Patrols Expanded Rape Suspect Is Charged in Killing How Unsafe Is Rutgers, Really? Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey Next Article in New York Region (14 of 16) &#x00bb; The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics Lady Liberty in Times Square, 1945 N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/education/11purdue.html	Purdue Will Reinvestigate Its Professor Who Claimed Desktop Fusion - New York Times Purdue Will Reinvestigate Its Professor Who Claimed Desktop Fusion Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 Three months after it cleared him of research misconduct, has begun a new inquiry into a professor who claims to have generated nuclear fusion in a desktop experiment, the university acknowledged yesterday. Skip to next paragraph Rusi P. Taleyarkhan was cleared of misconduct in an earlier inquiry. Researcher Cleared of Misconduct, but Case Is Still Murky The new inquiry goes beyond the focus of an earlier one, which looked at whether the professor, Rusi P. Taleyarkhan, improperly omitted himself as an author on two scientific papers. For the first time, a committee is examining whether the underlying research might have been fraudulent. Meanwhile, details of the earlier inquiry have emerged in a report by a Congressional subcommittee that reviewed Purdue’s actions. Although the earlier inquiry cleared Dr. Taleyarkhan of misconduct, it described “what might be characterized most favorably as severe lack of judgment” and said he had “abused his privilege as senior scientist,” according to the report from the Congressional subcommittee. Dr. Taleyarkhan said last night in an e-mail message that the subcommittee’s report represents “a gross travesty of justice.” He asked, “Where are the Jesse Jacksons and Al Sharptons of the Asian community during this episode that has caused this biased and openly one-sided smear campaign?” In scientific papers starting in 2002, Dr. Taleyarkhan, a professor of nuclear engineering, said the force of sound waves could collapse bubbles in a liquid and generate temperatures hot enough for hydrogen atoms to fuse and release energy, similar to how the sun makes heat and light. But other scientists have not been able to reproduce the process, called bubble fusion or sonofusion. Purdue’s handling of the controversy has been criticized inside and outside the university. “I think they fell short of what we would expect of them,” said Representative Brad Miller, a Democrat of North Carolina and the chairman of the investigations and oversight subcommittee of the House Committee on Science and Technology. The subcommittee, citing the need to ensure the integrity of federally financed research, requested copies of Purdue’s findings in March. On Wednesday, Mr. Miller sent to Martin C. Jischke, Purdue’s president, a letter and an accompanying memorandum by the subcommittee’s staff that strongly criticized Purdue. While the subcommittee did not release Purdue’s reports, the memorandum quotes from them and gives a clear chronology of Purdue’s actions. University administrators have said confidentiality requires them to withhold almost all information. The memorandum cites “numerous failures” in how Purdue addressed concerns about Dr. Taleyarkhan’s research. It says that Purdue did not follow its procedures, that the inquiry was not thorough and that the inquiry committee appeared to ignore the university’s definition of research misconduct. In a statement released last night, Purdue officials said they would address the concerns raised in the letter and the memorandum. Sally Mason, Purdue’s provost, said that soon after Dr. Taleyarkhan was cleared in February, the university received new accusations that merited a new inquiry. “We will proceed systematically and fairly,” Dr. Mason said, “and in the end, we will take whatever action is dictated by the evidence.” Up to now, Purdue has focused on two scientific papers published in 2005 that Dr. Taleyarkhan hailed as independent confirmation of his sonofusion results. But the experiments, performed in February 2004, were done using Dr. Taleyarkhan’s apparatus at Purdue, not at an independent laboratory, and one of the authors, Yiban Xu, joined Dr. Taleyarkhan’s group as a postdoctoral researcher a few months later. A second author, Adam Butt, a graduate student, also joined Dr. Taleyarkhan’s group. Further, in response to a fact-finding committee convened by the nuclear engineering school, Mr. Butt signed a statement that he did not participate in any of the experiments or the analysis of the data and that he had been added as an author to one of the papers a week before submission and was not aware that he was on the second paper until a week before it was presented at a conference. Dr. Xu declined to answer questions about the papers, but the committee noted similarities between them and several of Dr. Taleyarkhan’s. That fact-finding report was forwarded to Purdue administrators in February 2006. Purdue’s procedure for handling misconduct allegations is similar to other universities’ in calling for a two-step process: an inquiry committee evaluates the allegation, and if it finds sufficient evidence, then a full investigation is carried out. But instead of starting an inquiry, Purdue administrators asked first for a “review” of the allegations, a step that is not included in its misconduct policy. The review led to the appointment of an inquiry committee in July. According to the report from Congress, that committee in large part concurred with the findings of the nuclear engineering school’s fact-finding report, that it was “highly unlikely” that the experiment by Dr. Xu and Mr. Butt could be considered independent confirmation, and that Dr. Taleyarkhan had placed junior scientists in “precarious positions” to promote his research. But the inquiry deemed these to be failures of judgment rather than research misconduct and said an investigation was not needed. The Congressional subcommittee staff wrote, “It is difficult to understand how the inquiry committee could have then decided that Dr. Taleyarkhan’s actions did not constitute research misconduct,” which Purdue’s policy defines as “serious deviations” from commonly accepted academic practices. In his letter to Dr. Jischke, Mr. Miller expressed disappointment that the three members appointed to the new committee had served on earlier ones. He said Dr. Jischke had agreed to add one or more outside researchers. “I sincerely hope that the next inquiry will be conducted in a manner worthy of your great institution,” Mr. Miller wrote. Next Article in Education (2 of 5) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Congress Asks Purdue for Fusion Claim Findings Next Article in Education (2 of 5) &#x00bb; The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics The Times/Ellis Island Legacy Keepsake N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/education/11purdue.html	Purdue Will Reinvestigate Its Professor Who Claimed Desktop Fusion - New York Times Purdue Will Reinvestigate Its Professor Who Claimed Desktop Fusion Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 Three months after it cleared him of research misconduct, has begun a new inquiry into a professor who claims to have generated nuclear fusion in a desktop experiment, the university acknowledged yesterday. Skip to next paragraph Rusi P. Taleyarkhan was cleared of misconduct in an earlier inquiry. Researcher Cleared of Misconduct, but Case Is Still Murky The new inquiry goes beyond the focus of an earlier one, which looked at whether the professor, Rusi P. Taleyarkhan, improperly omitted himself as an author on two scientific papers. For the first time, a committee is examining whether the underlying research might have been fraudulent. Meanwhile, details of the earlier inquiry have emerged in a report by a Congressional subcommittee that reviewed Purdue’s actions. Although the earlier inquiry cleared Dr. Taleyarkhan of misconduct, it described “what might be characterized most favorably as severe lack of judgment” and said he had “abused his privilege as senior scientist,” according to the report from the Congressional subcommittee. Dr. Taleyarkhan said last night in an e-mail message that the subcommittee’s report represents “a gross travesty of justice.” He asked, “Where are the Jesse Jacksons and Al Sharptons of the Asian community during this episode that has caused this biased and openly one-sided smear campaign?” In scientific papers starting in 2002, Dr. Taleyarkhan, a professor of nuclear engineering, said the force of sound waves could collapse bubbles in a liquid and generate temperatures hot enough for hydrogen atoms to fuse and release energy, similar to how the sun makes heat and light. But other scientists have not been able to reproduce the process, called bubble fusion or sonofusion. Purdue’s handling of the controversy has been criticized inside and outside the university. “I think they fell short of what we would expect of them,” said Representative Brad Miller, a Democrat of North Carolina and the chairman of the investigations and oversight subcommittee of the House Committee on Science and Technology. The subcommittee, citing the need to ensure the integrity of federally financed research, requested copies of Purdue’s findings in March. On Wednesday, Mr. Miller sent to Martin C. Jischke, Purdue’s president, a letter and an accompanying memorandum by the subcommittee’s staff that strongly criticized Purdue. While the subcommittee did not release Purdue’s reports, the memorandum quotes from them and gives a clear chronology of Purdue’s actions. University administrators have said confidentiality requires them to withhold almost all information. The memorandum cites “numerous failures” in how Purdue addressed concerns about Dr. Taleyarkhan’s research. It says that Purdue did not follow its procedures, that the inquiry was not thorough and that the inquiry committee appeared to ignore the university’s definition of research misconduct. In a statement released last night, Purdue officials said they would address the concerns raised in the letter and the memorandum. Sally Mason, Purdue’s provost, said that soon after Dr. Taleyarkhan was cleared in February, the university received new accusations that merited a new inquiry. “We will proceed systematically and fairly,” Dr. Mason said, “and in the end, we will take whatever action is dictated by the evidence.” Up to now, Purdue has focused on two scientific papers published in 2005 that Dr. Taleyarkhan hailed as independent confirmation of his sonofusion results. But the experiments, performed in February 2004, were done using Dr. Taleyarkhan’s apparatus at Purdue, not at an independent laboratory, and one of the authors, Yiban Xu, joined Dr. Taleyarkhan’s group as a postdoctoral researcher a few months later. A second author, Adam Butt, a graduate student, also joined Dr. Taleyarkhan’s group. Further, in response to a fact-finding committee convened by the nuclear engineering school, Mr. Butt signed a statement that he did not participate in any of the experiments or the analysis of the data and that he had been added as an author to one of the papers a week before submission and was not aware that he was on the second paper until a week before it was presented at a conference. Dr. Xu declined to answer questions about the papers, but the committee noted similarities between them and several of Dr. Taleyarkhan’s. That fact-finding report was forwarded to Purdue administrators in February 2006. Purdue’s procedure for handling misconduct allegations is similar to other universities’ in calling for a two-step process: an inquiry committee evaluates the allegation, and if it finds sufficient evidence, then a full investigation is carried out. But instead of starting an inquiry, Purdue administrators asked first for a “review” of the allegations, a step that is not included in its misconduct policy. The review led to the appointment of an inquiry committee in July. According to the report from Congress, that committee in large part concurred with the findings of the nuclear engineering school’s fact-finding report, that it was “highly unlikely” that the experiment by Dr. Xu and Mr. Butt could be considered independent confirmation, and that Dr. Taleyarkhan had placed junior scientists in “precarious positions” to promote his research. But the inquiry deemed these to be failures of judgment rather than research misconduct and said an investigation was not needed. The Congressional subcommittee staff wrote, “It is difficult to understand how the inquiry committee could have then decided that Dr. Taleyarkhan’s actions did not constitute research misconduct,” which Purdue’s policy defines as “serious deviations” from commonly accepted academic practices. In his letter to Dr. Jischke, Mr. Miller expressed disappointment that the three members appointed to the new committee had served on earlier ones. He said Dr. Jischke had agreed to add one or more outside researchers. “I sincerely hope that the next inquiry will be conducted in a manner worthy of your great institution,” Mr. Miller wrote. Next Article in Education (2 of 5) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Congress Asks Purdue for Fusion Claim Findings Next Article in Education (2 of 5) &#x00bb; The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics The Times/Ellis Island Legacy Keepsake N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/washington/10loans.html?ex=1336449600&en=526379d7195b7e7f&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	House Passes Ban on Gifts From Student Lenders - New York Times House Passes Ban on Gifts From Student Lenders Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 , May 9 — The House of Representatives voted overwhelmingly Wednesday to ban gifts and payments by companies to universities, showing bipartisan resolve to clean up the $85 billion industry. The vote, 414 to 3, demonstrated how politically potent the issue of paying for college has become at a time when tuition is steadily rising and millions of students depend on borrowing to finance college. “With this vote,” said Representative George Miller, the California Democrat who leads the House education committee, “the House has taken a huge step in the right direction to put a stop to those practices and make sure that the student loan programs operate on the level, in the best interests of students and families trying to pay for college.” The bill passed a day before Education Secretary Margaret Spellings was scheduled to testify before the House education committee about oversight of the industry. It comes in the wake of revelations that lenders paid universities money contingent on student loan volume, gave gifts to the financial aid administrators whom students rely on to recommend lenders, and hired financial aid officials as paid consultants. The nation’s four largest student lenders and at least 22 colleges have already signed on to a code of conduct developed by Attorney General Mr. Miller was joined by the ranking Republican on his committee, Representative Howard P. McKeon of California, in promoting the bill. “We’re stepping up today for a single, fundamental reason,” Mr. McKeon said before the vote, “to ensure our nation’s financial aid system continues to serve the needs of our students.” But he also urged that Congress be careful “not to overreach.” The bill has bipartisan support in the Senate, said Senator , Democrat of Massachusetts and chairman of the education committee. A senior Education Department official said that the agency was prepared to move quickly to draft regulations to enforce the bill. Ms. Spellings is expected to face tough questions Thursday about the department’s policing of the industry, as well as about enforcement of its own internal policies on conflicts of interest after reports that an official with oversight over the student loan database held stock in a student loan company. Ms. Spellings’s chief of staff, David Dunn, said in an interview that the secretary wanted to “set the record straight” and show that the department had taken the steps it could to regulate lenders. Ms. Spellings has convened a task force that is to make recommendations by the end of May on how to regulate the lists of recommended lenders at university aid offices. Ms. Spellings is also expected to face questions about the oversight of Reading First, a program designed to teach poor children to read by third grade. The department’s inspector general, John P. Higgins, has issued reports finding conflicts of interest, cronyism and bias in how officials and private consultants operated the program and awarded grants. Mr. Kennedy, in a report, added new detail Wednesday on how four officials contracted by the education agency to advise states on buying reading materials had lucrative ties with publishers. Edward Kame’enui, head of the department’s western technical assistance center in Oregon from 2002 through May 2005, earned hundreds of thousands of dollars in royalties from Pearson/Scott Foresman from 2001 to 2006, the report said. It also said that Douglas Carnine, who replaced Dr. Kame’enui in 2005, also earned royalties — $168,470 from McGraw-Hill, Houghton Mifflin and Pearson last year. Joseph Torgesen, who advised Eastern states about materials, and Sharon Vaughn, who advised Central states, also received thousands of dollars in royalties from educational publishers while representing the department, the report said. Katherine McLane, a department spokeswoman, said: “The department is deeply concerned about conflicts of interest and takes the allegations contained in Senator Kennedy’s report very seriously. “We are studying this report to determine if further actions are necessary and will act aggressively if any wrongdoing is found.” More Articles in Washington &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. House Democrats May Seek Short-Term Financing of War Lawmaker Tied to Inquiries Gives Up Seat on Committee House Votes to Give the Capital a Full Voice in Congress THE REACH OF WAR: CONGRESSIONAL MEMO; Action on Troop Reshapes Bush's Debate With Congress More Articles in Washington &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Bush in Accord With Democrats on Trade Deals President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds Role of F.B.I. Informer Draws Praise and Questions On Carrier in Gulf, Cheney Issues Warning to Iran Romney Works to Put Skeptics' Doubts to Rest Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/washington/10loans.html?ex=1336449600&en=526379d7195b7e7f&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	House Passes Ban on Gifts From Student Lenders - New York Times House Passes Ban on Gifts From Student Lenders Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 , May 9 — The House of Representatives voted overwhelmingly Wednesday to ban gifts and payments by companies to universities, showing bipartisan resolve to clean up the $85 billion industry. The vote, 414 to 3, demonstrated how politically potent the issue of paying for college has become at a time when tuition is steadily rising and millions of students depend on borrowing to finance college. “With this vote,” said Representative George Miller, the California Democrat who leads the House education committee, “the House has taken a huge step in the right direction to put a stop to those practices and make sure that the student loan programs operate on the level, in the best interests of students and families trying to pay for college.” The bill passed a day before Education Secretary Margaret Spellings was scheduled to testify before the House education committee about oversight of the industry. It comes in the wake of revelations that lenders paid universities money contingent on student loan volume, gave gifts to the financial aid administrators whom students rely on to recommend lenders, and hired financial aid officials as paid consultants. The nation’s four largest student lenders and at least 22 colleges have already signed on to a code of conduct developed by Attorney General Mr. Miller was joined by the ranking Republican on his committee, Representative Howard P. McKeon of California, in promoting the bill. “We’re stepping up today for a single, fundamental reason,” Mr. McKeon said before the vote, “to ensure our nation’s financial aid system continues to serve the needs of our students.” But he also urged that Congress be careful “not to overreach.” The bill has bipartisan support in the Senate, said Senator , Democrat of Massachusetts and chairman of the education committee. A senior Education Department official said that the agency was prepared to move quickly to draft regulations to enforce the bill. Ms. Spellings is expected to face tough questions Thursday about the department’s policing of the industry, as well as about enforcement of its own internal policies on conflicts of interest after reports that an official with oversight over the student loan database held stock in a student loan company. Ms. Spellings’s chief of staff, David Dunn, said in an interview that the secretary wanted to “set the record straight” and show that the department had taken the steps it could to regulate lenders. Ms. Spellings has convened a task force that is to make recommendations by the end of May on how to regulate the lists of recommended lenders at university aid offices. Ms. Spellings is also expected to face questions about the oversight of Reading First, a program designed to teach poor children to read by third grade. The department’s inspector general, John P. Higgins, has issued reports finding conflicts of interest, cronyism and bias in how officials and private consultants operated the program and awarded grants. Mr. Kennedy, in a report, added new detail Wednesday on how four officials contracted by the education agency to advise states on buying reading materials had lucrative ties with publishers. Edward Kame’enui, head of the department’s western technical assistance center in Oregon from 2002 through May 2005, earned hundreds of thousands of dollars in royalties from Pearson/Scott Foresman from 2001 to 2006, the report said. It also said that Douglas Carnine, who replaced Dr. Kame’enui in 2005, also earned royalties — $168,470 from McGraw-Hill, Houghton Mifflin and Pearson last year. Joseph Torgesen, who advised Eastern states about materials, and Sharon Vaughn, who advised Central states, also received thousands of dollars in royalties from educational publishers while representing the department, the report said. Katherine McLane, a department spokeswoman, said: “The department is deeply concerned about conflicts of interest and takes the allegations contained in Senator Kennedy’s report very seriously. “We are studying this report to determine if further actions are necessary and will act aggressively if any wrongdoing is found.” More Articles in Washington &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. House Democrats May Seek Short-Term Financing of War Lawmaker Tied to Inquiries Gives Up Seat on Committee House Votes to Give the Capital a Full Voice in Congress THE REACH OF WAR: CONGRESSIONAL MEMO; Action on Troop Reshapes Bush's Debate With Congress More Articles in Washington &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Bush in Accord With Democrats on Trade Deals President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds Role of F.B.I. Informer Draws Praise and Questions On Carrier in Gulf, Cheney Issues Warning to Iran Romney Works to Put Skeptics' Doubts to Rest Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/12/washington/12bush.html	Visit by Bush Tests Beliefs and Hospitality of Students at a Catholic College - New York Times Visit by Bush Tests Beliefs and Hospitality of Students at a Catholic College Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 12, 2007 LATROBE, Pa., May 11 — Ordinarily, there would be nothing notable about the chancellor of a small Roman Catholic college in a reliably Republican county telling President Bush, as he did on Friday, “Know, Mr. President, that you are very welcome on this campus.” This should especially be so when the college president is Jim Towey, the former director of Mr. Bush’s Office of Faith-Based and Community Initiatives. But these are far from ordinary times for President Bush. In yet another sign of the troubles he is facing, even in places where he once could have expected none, the news that he would give the commencement address at St. Vincent College here on Friday was not universally welcomed on the campus, which is about 35 miles east of Pittsburgh in Westmoreland County. Rather, it set off weeks of debate and protests as this tight Benedictine campus community grappled with faith and war and an unfamiliar level of polarization. It has occasionally fallen to Mr. Towey to be the referee. In April, Mr. Towey held a campus meeting, a video of which was still posted on the college Web site Friday, where he told the students, “I think one of the most important things that we can do as a student community at a liberal arts college that is Catholic and Benedictine is to communicate ways in which our opinions can be respected and heard, and that individuals have a right to their heart-felt beliefs.” Students obliged with passionate and deliberate views. “Remember he is the president, the leader of the free world,” one male student said. “What a unique opportunity for us as a college.” Another said: “I’ve learned that every life is valuable to the very last day, hour, minute and second that Christ has given. Because of the disregard for human life in countries other than ours, which is partly fueled by our president’s war, I cannot accept him as a representation of our institution, which has given us all so much.” But a student shown on the Web video, and who, upon being spotted Friday, identified himself as George Miller, 19, urged a warmer welcome. “Yes, he has flaws, as we all do,” Mr. Miller said. “And, yes, some argue, he does not represent Benedictine values.” But, he continued, “the Benedictine tradition of hospitality is a call to welcome the very worst and the very best into our community, as though they were Christ himself.” Mr. Towey thanked the students for speaking frankly before him, “a friend of the president,” though weeks of protest followed. But the protest was muted on Friday, with most of the discontent expressed at a candlelight vigil Thursday night. Mr. Bush received warm applause upon stepping to the lectern. Wearing a purplish-blue academic robe, he did not address the war in Iraq in any detail, just once in thanking graduates who were joining the military, saying: “You knew the risks of serving in a time of war, and you have volunteered to accept those risks. You have chosen a noble calling.” Speaking of the charitable work of some students, and that of , Mr. Bush told the graduates: “Lead lives of purpose and character; make a difference in someone else’s life. And if you do, you will lead richer lives, you will build a more hopeful nation and you’ll never be disappointed.” Afterward, Mr. Miller, the student, said of Mr. Bush, “I don’t personally have a ton of respect for him.” But he said that seeing the president in person gave him a better appreciation for Mr. Bush. More Articles in Washington &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Matters of Faith Find a New Prominence on Campus A Fraternity of Faith, Dwindling but Resolute Beliefs; Schools in a California town expose ninth graders to a world of thoughts, and it seems to work. Feeling Strains, Baptist Colleges Cut Church Ties More Articles in Washington &#x00bb; The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics THE NEW YORK TIMES GUIDE TO ESSENTIAL KNOWLEDGE N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/12/washington/12bush.html	Visit by Bush Tests Beliefs and Hospitality of Students at a Catholic College - New York Times Visit by Bush Tests Beliefs and Hospitality of Students at a Catholic College Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 12, 2007 LATROBE, Pa., May 11 — Ordinarily, there would be nothing notable about the chancellor of a small Roman Catholic college in a reliably Republican county telling President Bush, as he did on Friday, “Know, Mr. President, that you are very welcome on this campus.” This should especially be so when the college president is Jim Towey, the former director of Mr. Bush’s Office of Faith-Based and Community Initiatives. But these are far from ordinary times for President Bush. In yet another sign of the troubles he is facing, even in places where he once could have expected none, the news that he would give the commencement address at St. Vincent College here on Friday was not universally welcomed on the campus, which is about 35 miles east of Pittsburgh in Westmoreland County. Rather, it set off weeks of debate and protests as this tight Benedictine campus community grappled with faith and war and an unfamiliar level of polarization. It has occasionally fallen to Mr. Towey to be the referee. In April, Mr. Towey held a campus meeting, a video of which was still posted on the college Web site Friday, where he told the students, “I think one of the most important things that we can do as a student community at a liberal arts college that is Catholic and Benedictine is to communicate ways in which our opinions can be respected and heard, and that individuals have a right to their heart-felt beliefs.” Students obliged with passionate and deliberate views. “Remember he is the president, the leader of the free world,” one male student said. “What a unique opportunity for us as a college.” Another said: “I’ve learned that every life is valuable to the very last day, hour, minute and second that Christ has given. Because of the disregard for human life in countries other than ours, which is partly fueled by our president’s war, I cannot accept him as a representation of our institution, which has given us all so much.” But a student shown on the Web video, and who, upon being spotted Friday, identified himself as George Miller, 19, urged a warmer welcome. “Yes, he has flaws, as we all do,” Mr. Miller said. “And, yes, some argue, he does not represent Benedictine values.” But, he continued, “the Benedictine tradition of hospitality is a call to welcome the very worst and the very best into our community, as though they were Christ himself.” Mr. Towey thanked the students for speaking frankly before him, “a friend of the president,” though weeks of protest followed. But the protest was muted on Friday, with most of the discontent expressed at a candlelight vigil Thursday night. Mr. Bush received warm applause upon stepping to the lectern. Wearing a purplish-blue academic robe, he did not address the war in Iraq in any detail, just once in thanking graduates who were joining the military, saying: “You knew the risks of serving in a time of war, and you have volunteered to accept those risks. You have chosen a noble calling.” Speaking of the charitable work of some students, and that of , Mr. Bush told the graduates: “Lead lives of purpose and character; make a difference in someone else’s life. And if you do, you will lead richer lives, you will build a more hopeful nation and you’ll never be disappointed.” Afterward, Mr. Miller, the student, said of Mr. Bush, “I don’t personally have a ton of respect for him.” But he said that seeing the president in person gave him a better appreciation for Mr. Bush. More Articles in Washington &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Matters of Faith Find a New Prominence on Campus A Fraternity of Faith, Dwindling but Resolute Beliefs; Schools in a California town expose ninth graders to a world of thoughts, and it seems to work. Feeling Strains, Baptist Colleges Cut Church Ties More Articles in Washington &#x00bb; The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics THE NEW YORK TIMES GUIDE TO ESSENTIAL KNOWLEDGE N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/pages/education/index.html?partner=rssnyt	Education News - All Headlines - New York Times A Model Middle School Ruby Washington/The New York Times A Briarcliff Manor Middle School sign reminds students that &#147;taking responsible risks&#148; is one of the Habits of Mind that the school wants them to adopt. Briarcliff Middle School has emerged as a nationally recognized middle school that gets things right. Audio Slide Show: A Model Middle School Burglary Charge Is Costly for Rutgers Class President Christa Olandria will not be graduating with her classmates next week after being arrested for burglary along with another Rutgers senior. Visit by Bush Tests Beliefs and Hospitality of Students at a Catholic College The news that President Bush would give the commencement address at St. Vincent College was not universally welcomed. Spellings Rejects Criticism on Student Loan Scandal Education Secretary Margaret Spellings argued at a House hearing that she lacked legal authority to clamp down on many abuses in the student loan industry. Purdue Will Reinvestigate Its Professor Who Claimed Desktop Fusion Purdue University has begun a new inquiry into a professor who claims to have generated nuclear fusion in a desktop experiment. House Passes Ban on Gifts From Student Lenders By SAM DILLON and JONATHAN D. GLATER The House of Representatives showed bipartisan resolve to clean up the $85 billion student loan industry. Harvard Task Force Calls for New Focus on Teaching and Not Just Research Parents and District Settle Dispute on Teacher’s Religious Remarks Arabic School Finds Temporary Home in Brooklyn Federal Student Loan Official Is Resigning On Education: English Language Learners as Pawns in the School System’s Overhaul Students Search for the Words to Go With Their Cultural Pride Whistle-Blower on Student Aid Is Vindicated American Album: Torn From Parents, a Top Speller Vents His Anger, Letter by Letter Walking on the Wild Side of a Montana University School Financing: Increased State Aid or Not, Districts Seek Higher Taxes A Liberal Case for Gun Rights Sways Judiciary Student at Risk? He Can Help. He’s Been There. Money Falls Short of Plans to Clear Bus Air N.Y. Schools Seek Higher Taxes Despite Extra Aid Prominent Education Reformer to Lead New Orleans Schools Students May Have Paid Cash to Change Grades, College Says Education Dept. Starts Inquiry Into Possible Loan Conflicts Almost half of all undergraduates go to a community college, making the two-year experience as much the norm as not. Go to Special Section » Live From Washington, Opera for the College Crowd By DANIEL J. WAKIN The Washington National Opera launches a plan to bring opera into the schools. At Commencement, a Call for Religious Literacy For a long time, quite a few people assumed that a major point of higher education was to put religion behind you. The achieving, ambitious and confident students of Newton North High School. Middle School: The Critical Years For Students, Teachers and Parents Bring today's Times into your classroom or home with daily lesson plans, news quizzes, thematic crosswords and more. Featured Resource: Class Matters Find the right camp or school for your child In the Education Marketplace: View all Camp Listings View all School Listings Post Your Ad Now! Browse College and University Topics California Institute of Technology City College of New York City University of New York Fashion Institute of Technology Georgia Institute of Technology John Jay College of Criminal Justice Manhattan School of Music Massachusetts Institute of Technology New Jersey Institute of Technology North Carolina State University Rutgers, The State University State University of New York State University of New York at Albany State University of New York at Purchase State University of New York at Stony Brook Texas A and M University United States Air Force Academy United States Naval Academy United States Military Academy University of North Carolina University of Notre Dame University of Rhode Island University of South Carolina University of Southern California Xavier University of Ohio MOST POPULAR - U.S. Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Colleagues Cite Partisan Focus by Justice Official New Mayor but Familiar Issues on Dallas&#8217;s Horizon Harvard Task Force Calls for New Focus on Teaching and Not Just Research Wildfire Threatens a Southern California Resort Island Wildfire Threatens a California Resort Island Wildfire Threatens a California Resort Island Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus U.S. Queries Filmmaker on Cuba Trip for Movie Go to Complete List » Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus A Liberal Case for Gun Rights Helps Sway Judiciary Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix 6 Arrested in Plot to Attack Fort Dix Critic of Corps of Engineers Says Levee Repairs for New Orleans Show Signs of Flaws College Loan Official Resigns 50 Years Later, Little Rock Can't Escape Race U.S. Queries Filmmaker on Cuba Trip for Movie Harvard Task Force Calls for New Focus on Teaching and Not Just Research Go to Complete List » The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics THE NEW YORK TIMES GUIDE TO ESSENTIAL KNOWLEDGE Find a world of reasons to go. Buy, sell or research a car. Photos, fine art, books and more. Start your 30-day free trial of Times Reader today. What’s new on Broadway? What’s new in technology? The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/pages/education/index.html?partner=rssnyt	Education News - All Headlines - New York Times A Model Middle School Ruby Washington/The New York Times A Briarcliff Manor Middle School sign reminds students that &#147;taking responsible risks&#148; is one of the Habits of Mind that the school wants them to adopt. Briarcliff Middle School has emerged as a nationally recognized middle school that gets things right. Audio Slide Show: A Model Middle School Burglary Charge Is Costly for Rutgers Class President Christa Olandria will not be graduating with her classmates next week after being arrested for burglary along with another Rutgers senior. Visit by Bush Tests Beliefs and Hospitality of Students at a Catholic College The news that President Bush would give the commencement address at St. Vincent College was not universally welcomed. Spellings Rejects Criticism on Student Loan Scandal Education Secretary Margaret Spellings argued at a House hearing that she lacked legal authority to clamp down on many abuses in the student loan industry. Purdue Will Reinvestigate Its Professor Who Claimed Desktop Fusion Purdue University has begun a new inquiry into a professor who claims to have generated nuclear fusion in a desktop experiment. House Passes Ban on Gifts From Student Lenders By SAM DILLON and JONATHAN D. GLATER The House of Representatives showed bipartisan resolve to clean up the $85 billion student loan industry. Harvard Task Force Calls for New Focus on Teaching and Not Just Research Parents and District Settle Dispute on Teacher’s Religious Remarks Arabic School Finds Temporary Home in Brooklyn Federal Student Loan Official Is Resigning On Education: English Language Learners as Pawns in the School System’s Overhaul Students Search for the Words to Go With Their Cultural Pride Whistle-Blower on Student Aid Is Vindicated American Album: Torn From Parents, a Top Speller Vents His Anger, Letter by Letter Walking on the Wild Side of a Montana University School Financing: Increased State Aid or Not, Districts Seek Higher Taxes A Liberal Case for Gun Rights Sways Judiciary Student at Risk? He Can Help. He’s Been There. Money Falls Short of Plans to Clear Bus Air N.Y. Schools Seek Higher Taxes Despite Extra Aid Prominent Education Reformer to Lead New Orleans Schools Students May Have Paid Cash to Change Grades, College Says Education Dept. Starts Inquiry Into Possible Loan Conflicts Almost half of all undergraduates go to a community college, making the two-year experience as much the norm as not. Go to Special Section » Live From Washington, Opera for the College Crowd By DANIEL J. WAKIN The Washington National Opera launches a plan to bring opera into the schools. At Commencement, a Call for Religious Literacy For a long time, quite a few people assumed that a major point of higher education was to put religion behind you. The achieving, ambitious and confident students of Newton North High School. Middle School: The Critical Years For Students, Teachers and Parents Bring today's Times into your classroom or home with daily lesson plans, news quizzes, thematic crosswords and more. Featured Resource: Class Matters Find the right camp or school for your child In the Education Marketplace: View all Camp Listings View all School Listings Post Your Ad Now! Browse College and University Topics California Institute of Technology City College of New York City University of New York Fashion Institute of Technology Georgia Institute of Technology John Jay College of Criminal Justice Manhattan School of Music Massachusetts Institute of Technology New Jersey Institute of Technology North Carolina State University Rutgers, The State University State University of New York State University of New York at Albany State University of New York at Purchase State University of New York at Stony Brook Texas A and M University United States Air Force Academy United States Naval Academy United States Military Academy University of North Carolina University of Notre Dame University of Rhode Island University of South Carolina University of Southern California Xavier University of Ohio MOST POPULAR - U.S. Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Colleagues Cite Partisan Focus by Justice Official New Mayor but Familiar Issues on Dallas&#8217;s Horizon Harvard Task Force Calls for New Focus on Teaching and Not Just Research Wildfire Threatens a Southern California Resort Island Wildfire Threatens a California Resort Island Wildfire Threatens a California Resort Island Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus U.S. Queries Filmmaker on Cuba Trip for Movie Go to Complete List » Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus A Liberal Case for Gun Rights Helps Sway Judiciary Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix 6 Arrested in Plot to Attack Fort Dix Critic of Corps of Engineers Says Levee Repairs for New Orleans Show Signs of Flaws College Loan Official Resigns 50 Years Later, Little Rock Can't Escape Race U.S. Queries Filmmaker on Cuba Trip for Movie Harvard Task Force Calls for New Focus on Teaching and Not Just Research Go to Complete List » The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics THE NEW YORK TIMES GUIDE TO ESSENTIAL KNOWLEDGE Find a world of reasons to go. Buy, sell or research a car. Photos, fine art, books and more. Start your 30-day free trial of Times Reader today. What’s new on Broadway? What’s new in technology? The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/pages/education/index.html	Education News - All Headlines - New York Times A Model Middle School Ruby Washington/The New York Times A Briarcliff Manor Middle School sign reminds students that &#147;taking responsible risks&#148; is one of the Habits of Mind that the school wants them to adopt. Briarcliff Middle School has emerged as a nationally recognized middle school that gets things right. Audio Slide Show: A Model Middle School Burglary Charge Is Costly for Rutgers Class President Christa Olandria will not be graduating with her classmates next week after being arrested for burglary along with another Rutgers senior. Visit by Bush Tests Beliefs and Hospitality of Students at a Catholic College The news that President Bush would give the commencement address at St. Vincent College was not universally welcomed. Spellings Rejects Criticism on Student Loan Scandal Education Secretary Margaret Spellings argued at a House hearing that she lacked legal authority to clamp down on many abuses in the student loan industry. Purdue Will Reinvestigate Its Professor Who Claimed Desktop Fusion Purdue University has begun a new inquiry into a professor who claims to have generated nuclear fusion in a desktop experiment. House Passes Ban on Gifts From Student Lenders By SAM DILLON and JONATHAN D. GLATER The House of Representatives showed bipartisan resolve to clean up the $85 billion student loan industry. Harvard Task Force Calls for New Focus on Teaching and Not Just Research Parents and District Settle Dispute on Teacher’s Religious Remarks Arabic School Finds Temporary Home in Brooklyn Federal Student Loan Official Is Resigning On Education: English Language Learners as Pawns in the School System’s Overhaul Students Search for the Words to Go With Their Cultural Pride Whistle-Blower on Student Aid Is Vindicated American Album: Torn From Parents, a Top Speller Vents His Anger, Letter by Letter Walking on the Wild Side of a Montana University School Financing: Increased State Aid or Not, Districts Seek Higher Taxes A Liberal Case for Gun Rights Sways Judiciary Student at Risk? He Can Help. He’s Been There. Money Falls Short of Plans to Clear Bus Air N.Y. Schools Seek Higher Taxes Despite Extra Aid Prominent Education Reformer to Lead New Orleans Schools Students May Have Paid Cash to Change Grades, College Says Education Dept. Starts Inquiry Into Possible Loan Conflicts Almost half of all undergraduates go to a community college, making the two-year experience as much the norm as not. Go to Special Section » Live From Washington, Opera for the College Crowd By DANIEL J. WAKIN The Washington National Opera launches a plan to bring opera into the schools. At Commencement, a Call for Religious Literacy For a long time, quite a few people assumed that a major point of higher education was to put religion behind you. The achieving, ambitious and confident students of Newton North High School. Middle School: The Critical Years For Students, Teachers and Parents Bring today's Times into your classroom or home with daily lesson plans, news quizzes, thematic crosswords and more. Featured Resource: Class Matters Find the right camp or school for your child In the Education Marketplace: View all Camp Listings View all School Listings Post Your Ad Now! Browse College and University Topics California Institute of Technology City College of New York City University of New York Fashion Institute of Technology Georgia Institute of Technology John Jay College of Criminal Justice Manhattan School of Music Massachusetts Institute of Technology New Jersey Institute of Technology North Carolina State University Rutgers, The State University State University of New York State University of New York at Albany State University of New York at Purchase State University of New York at Stony Brook Texas A and M University United States Air Force Academy United States Naval Academy United States Military Academy University of North Carolina University of Notre Dame University of Rhode Island University of South Carolina University of Southern California Xavier University of Ohio MOST POPULAR - U.S. Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Colleagues Cite Partisan Focus by Justice Official New Mayor but Familiar Issues on Dallas&#8217;s Horizon Harvard Task Force Calls for New Focus on Teaching and Not Just Research Wildfire Threatens a Southern California Resort Island Wildfire Threatens a California Resort Island Wildfire Threatens a California Resort Island Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus U.S. Queries Filmmaker on Cuba Trip for Movie Go to Complete List » Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus A Liberal Case for Gun Rights Helps Sway Judiciary Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix 6 Arrested in Plot to Attack Fort Dix Critic of Corps of Engineers Says Levee Repairs for New Orleans Show Signs of Flaws College Loan Official Resigns 50 Years Later, Little Rock Can't Escape Race U.S. Queries Filmmaker on Cuba Trip for Movie Harvard Task Force Calls for New Focus on Teaching and Not Just Research Go to Complete List » The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics THE NEW YORK TIMES GUIDE TO ESSENTIAL KNOWLEDGE Photos, fine art, books and more. Buy, sell or rent a home. What’s new on Broadway? Which gadget is getting all the buzz? Find a world of reasons to go. What movie should you see? The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/pages/education/index.html	Education News - All Headlines - New York Times A Model Middle School Ruby Washington/The New York Times A Briarcliff Manor Middle School sign reminds students that &#147;taking responsible risks&#148; is one of the Habits of Mind that the school wants them to adopt. Briarcliff Middle School has emerged as a nationally recognized middle school that gets things right. Audio Slide Show: A Model Middle School Burglary Charge Is Costly for Rutgers Class President Christa Olandria will not be graduating with her classmates next week after being arrested for burglary along with another Rutgers senior. Visit by Bush Tests Beliefs and Hospitality of Students at a Catholic College The news that President Bush would give the commencement address at St. Vincent College was not universally welcomed. Spellings Rejects Criticism on Student Loan Scandal Education Secretary Margaret Spellings argued at a House hearing that she lacked legal authority to clamp down on many abuses in the student loan industry. Purdue Will Reinvestigate Its Professor Who Claimed Desktop Fusion Purdue University has begun a new inquiry into a professor who claims to have generated nuclear fusion in a desktop experiment. House Passes Ban on Gifts From Student Lenders By SAM DILLON and JONATHAN D. GLATER The House of Representatives showed bipartisan resolve to clean up the $85 billion student loan industry. Harvard Task Force Calls for New Focus on Teaching and Not Just Research Parents and District Settle Dispute on Teacher’s Religious Remarks Arabic School Finds Temporary Home in Brooklyn Federal Student Loan Official Is Resigning On Education: English Language Learners as Pawns in the School System’s Overhaul Students Search for the Words to Go With Their Cultural Pride Whistle-Blower on Student Aid Is Vindicated American Album: Torn From Parents, a Top Speller Vents His Anger, Letter by Letter Walking on the Wild Side of a Montana University School Financing: Increased State Aid or Not, Districts Seek Higher Taxes A Liberal Case for Gun Rights Sways Judiciary Student at Risk? He Can Help. He’s Been There. Money Falls Short of Plans to Clear Bus Air N.Y. Schools Seek Higher Taxes Despite Extra Aid Prominent Education Reformer to Lead New Orleans Schools Students May Have Paid Cash to Change Grades, College Says Education Dept. Starts Inquiry Into Possible Loan Conflicts Almost half of all undergraduates go to a community college, making the two-year experience as much the norm as not. Go to Special Section » Live From Washington, Opera for the College Crowd By DANIEL J. WAKIN The Washington National Opera launches a plan to bring opera into the schools. At Commencement, a Call for Religious Literacy For a long time, quite a few people assumed that a major point of higher education was to put religion behind you. The achieving, ambitious and confident students of Newton North High School. Middle School: The Critical Years For Students, Teachers and Parents Bring today's Times into your classroom or home with daily lesson plans, news quizzes, thematic crosswords and more. Featured Resource: Class Matters Find the right camp or school for your child In the Education Marketplace: View all Camp Listings View all School Listings Post Your Ad Now! Browse College and University Topics California Institute of Technology City College of New York City University of New York Fashion Institute of Technology Georgia Institute of Technology John Jay College of Criminal Justice Manhattan School of Music Massachusetts Institute of Technology New Jersey Institute of Technology North Carolina State University Rutgers, The State University State University of New York State University of New York at Albany State University of New York at Purchase State University of New York at Stony Brook Texas A and M University United States Air Force Academy United States Naval Academy United States Military Academy University of North Carolina University of Notre Dame University of Rhode Island University of South Carolina University of Southern California Xavier University of Ohio MOST POPULAR - U.S. Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Colleagues Cite Partisan Focus by Justice Official New Mayor but Familiar Issues on Dallas&#8217;s Horizon Harvard Task Force Calls for New Focus on Teaching and Not Just Research Wildfire Threatens a Southern California Resort Island Wildfire Threatens a California Resort Island Wildfire Threatens a California Resort Island Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus U.S. Queries Filmmaker on Cuba Trip for Movie Go to Complete List » Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus A Liberal Case for Gun Rights Helps Sway Judiciary Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix 6 Arrested in Plot to Attack Fort Dix Critic of Corps of Engineers Says Levee Repairs for New Orleans Show Signs of Flaws College Loan Official Resigns 50 Years Later, Little Rock Can't Escape Race U.S. Queries Filmmaker on Cuba Trip for Movie Harvard Task Force Calls for New Focus on Teaching and Not Just Research Go to Complete List » The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics THE NEW YORK TIMES GUIDE TO ESSENTIAL KNOWLEDGE Photos, fine art, books and more. Buy, sell or rent a home. What’s new on Broadway? Which gadget is getting all the buzz? Find a world of reasons to go. What movie should you see? The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/nyregion/nyregionspecial2/13colct.html	Local Food 101, With a School as His Lab - New York Times Local Food 101, With a School as His Lab Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 13, 2007 Skip to next paragraph Long Island, Westchester, Connecticut and New Jersey Go to Complete Coverage » TALL, bald and of robust appetite, the chef Timothy Cipriano is casting an appreciative eye at the young free-range chickens clucking in their moveable, open-air run outside the Agriscience and Technology Center at Bloomfield High School. “By fall, I can give you three dozen eggs a week,” predicts Joseph Rodrigues, the agriscience teacher who oversees greenhouses, raised-bed gardens and a set of big, burbling aquaculture tanks. “Fantastic. We’ll do frittatas,” Mr. Cipriano murmurs. The two men are amiable and enthusiastic co-conspirators. Mr. Cipriano, the food service director for the Bloomfield school district, is also a committed activist for the Farm-to-School program, which advocates serving students fresh, locally grown and sustainable food. He is clearly delighted by Mr. Rodrigues’s next promise: “We’ll be raising tilapia. It’s a good, mild fish the kids like. I’m hoping to give you a couple of decent harvests.” Having cajoled a few students out of study hall, Mr. Rodrigues has set them to transplanting heirloom tomato seedlings in the greenhouse. He walks between potting benches reciting tomato varieties: “Moskovich. First Ladies. Juliets. The Great White ... .” The crops also include snap peas, leeks, broccoli rabe, carrots, herbs, lettuce, arugula, okra and squash. Crews of volunteer students will tend the beds over the summer, with early harvest going to a local food bank. Students also test recipes, from watermelon gazpacho to Mexican pizza, and Mr. Cipriano has gathered the favorites in a self-published compendium intended for the delectation of “Not Your Average Lunch Lady.” His most popular dish is Squapple Crisp, a toothsome bake of winter squash, apples, cinnamon and brown sugar topped with crushed cornflakes. Has he had some losers? “Kale with carrots,” he admits. “Hey, kids are kids. You can’t push it too far. And their tastes seem to change overnight.” His own children, ages 5, 3 and 2, are crazy about asparagus and anything spicy, he says, “at least for now.” At the beginning of the fall term, Mr. Cipriano, also known in these parts as the Local Food Dude, will feed some of the fresh bounty from the agriscience plots to his students, who already enjoy Connecticut-grown fare from local farms in the cafeteria. Classes in the culinary vocational program just up the hill will get baskets of produce to experiment with. At 35, Mr. Cipriano bears a physical and spiritual resemblance to that legendary evangelist for basic, homegrown American cuisine, James Beard. He says he left restaurants and corporate food service to enjoy more family time on the same schedule as his wife, who is a teacher. He was middle school chef at a private academy in Cheshire before he came here to head the kitchens last July. Though Mr. Cipriano has brought his “eat local” message to all the district’s schools, the cafeteria of the 700-student Bloomfield High is his main laboratory. Beneath posters of asking “Got Milk?” students are enjoying a “brunch for lunch” of scrambled eggs, French toast strips and a tasting of four locally harvested maple syrups. There is also an Asian stir-fry station with jasmine rice and a counter serving favorites of the area’s large West Indian population. Last growing season, Michael Buchanan, a local farmer and Jamaican immigrant, grew callaloo, a leafy vegetable also known as pepperpot, and students made short work of that taste of home. Mr. Rodrigues’s classes are also growing incendiary Scotch Bonnet peppers, a Caribbean staple, to keep dishes lively in the fall. Mr. Cipriano has noticed the added benefit of cultural commingling at the steam table as students try different cuisines. “Food is a great teaching tool,” he says. “It touches so many areas — agriculture, the environment, different cultures. It’s immediate, it’s fun and they almost forget it’s good for them, too.” In the busy kitchen, a chef, Solomon Johnson Jr., is recalling the day last fall when Mr. Cipriano floored his staff by unloading several bushels of fresh Connecticut corn. Long accustomed to simply reheating the canned version, the kitchen workers were aghast. “We steamed it and put it out there,” Mr. Cipriano says. “The kids shucked it themselves and went crazy for it. We ran out halfway through the first shift.” Mr. Cipriano says he has had consistent support from school administrators, who enjoy school-catered wraps and snacks at meetings, and the district is building an early-childhood magnet school with a farm theme and hands-on greenhouses. This summer, Mr. Cipriano has another job as manager of the new Litchfield Hills Farm-Fresh Market, which opens at Center School in Litchfield on June 30. The Food Dude will be out there every Saturday, invoking the market mantra (“Be a vocal local, buy local food”), sampling new produce, grass-fed beef and organic dairy products — and developing more recipes. “And come September,” he says, “I can’t wait to feed it all to my kids.” More Articles in New York Region &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Panel Suggests Junk Food Ban In Schools to Help Fight Obesity Agriculture Mainstay Gets an Urban Face California's Newest State University Is Short of Students House Passes a $2.7 Trillion Spending Plan More Articles in New York Region &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France 50% off Times delivery. THE NEW YORK TIMES GUIDE TO ESSENTIAL KNOWLEDGE N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/nyregion/nyregionspecial2/13colct.html	Local Food 101, With a School as His Lab - New York Times Local Food 101, With a School as His Lab Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 13, 2007 Skip to next paragraph Long Island, Westchester, Connecticut and New Jersey Go to Complete Coverage » TALL, bald and of robust appetite, the chef Timothy Cipriano is casting an appreciative eye at the young free-range chickens clucking in their moveable, open-air run outside the Agriscience and Technology Center at Bloomfield High School. “By fall, I can give you three dozen eggs a week,” predicts Joseph Rodrigues, the agriscience teacher who oversees greenhouses, raised-bed gardens and a set of big, burbling aquaculture tanks. “Fantastic. We’ll do frittatas,” Mr. Cipriano murmurs. The two men are amiable and enthusiastic co-conspirators. Mr. Cipriano, the food service director for the Bloomfield school district, is also a committed activist for the Farm-to-School program, which advocates serving students fresh, locally grown and sustainable food. He is clearly delighted by Mr. Rodrigues’s next promise: “We’ll be raising tilapia. It’s a good, mild fish the kids like. I’m hoping to give you a couple of decent harvests.” Having cajoled a few students out of study hall, Mr. Rodrigues has set them to transplanting heirloom tomato seedlings in the greenhouse. He walks between potting benches reciting tomato varieties: “Moskovich. First Ladies. Juliets. The Great White ... .” The crops also include snap peas, leeks, broccoli rabe, carrots, herbs, lettuce, arugula, okra and squash. Crews of volunteer students will tend the beds over the summer, with early harvest going to a local food bank. Students also test recipes, from watermelon gazpacho to Mexican pizza, and Mr. Cipriano has gathered the favorites in a self-published compendium intended for the delectation of “Not Your Average Lunch Lady.” His most popular dish is Squapple Crisp, a toothsome bake of winter squash, apples, cinnamon and brown sugar topped with crushed cornflakes. Has he had some losers? “Kale with carrots,” he admits. “Hey, kids are kids. You can’t push it too far. And their tastes seem to change overnight.” His own children, ages 5, 3 and 2, are crazy about asparagus and anything spicy, he says, “at least for now.” At the beginning of the fall term, Mr. Cipriano, also known in these parts as the Local Food Dude, will feed some of the fresh bounty from the agriscience plots to his students, who already enjoy Connecticut-grown fare from local farms in the cafeteria. Classes in the culinary vocational program just up the hill will get baskets of produce to experiment with. At 35, Mr. Cipriano bears a physical and spiritual resemblance to that legendary evangelist for basic, homegrown American cuisine, James Beard. He says he left restaurants and corporate food service to enjoy more family time on the same schedule as his wife, who is a teacher. He was middle school chef at a private academy in Cheshire before he came here to head the kitchens last July. Though Mr. Cipriano has brought his “eat local” message to all the district’s schools, the cafeteria of the 700-student Bloomfield High is his main laboratory. Beneath posters of asking “Got Milk?” students are enjoying a “brunch for lunch” of scrambled eggs, French toast strips and a tasting of four locally harvested maple syrups. There is also an Asian stir-fry station with jasmine rice and a counter serving favorites of the area’s large West Indian population. Last growing season, Michael Buchanan, a local farmer and Jamaican immigrant, grew callaloo, a leafy vegetable also known as pepperpot, and students made short work of that taste of home. Mr. Rodrigues’s classes are also growing incendiary Scotch Bonnet peppers, a Caribbean staple, to keep dishes lively in the fall. Mr. Cipriano has noticed the added benefit of cultural commingling at the steam table as students try different cuisines. “Food is a great teaching tool,” he says. “It touches so many areas — agriculture, the environment, different cultures. It’s immediate, it’s fun and they almost forget it’s good for them, too.” In the busy kitchen, a chef, Solomon Johnson Jr., is recalling the day last fall when Mr. Cipriano floored his staff by unloading several bushels of fresh Connecticut corn. Long accustomed to simply reheating the canned version, the kitchen workers were aghast. “We steamed it and put it out there,” Mr. Cipriano says. “The kids shucked it themselves and went crazy for it. We ran out halfway through the first shift.” Mr. Cipriano says he has had consistent support from school administrators, who enjoy school-catered wraps and snacks at meetings, and the district is building an early-childhood magnet school with a farm theme and hands-on greenhouses. This summer, Mr. Cipriano has another job as manager of the new Litchfield Hills Farm-Fresh Market, which opens at Center School in Litchfield on June 30. The Food Dude will be out there every Saturday, invoking the market mantra (“Be a vocal local, buy local food”), sampling new produce, grass-fed beef and organic dairy products — and developing more recipes. “And come September,” he says, “I can’t wait to feed it all to my kids.” More Articles in New York Region &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Panel Suggests Junk Food Ban In Schools to Help Fight Obesity Agriculture Mainstay Gets an Urban Face California's Newest State University Is Short of Students House Passes a $2.7 Trillion Spending Plan More Articles in New York Region &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France 50% off Times delivery. THE NEW YORK TIMES GUIDE TO ESSENTIAL KNOWLEDGE N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/us/15hawaii.html	Prestigious Private Schools Settle Rights Suit by a Non-Hawaiian - New York Times Prestigious Private Schools Settle Rights Suit by a Non-Hawaiian Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 15, 2007 The private Kamehameha Schools in announced yesterday that they had settled a civil rights lawsuit brought against them by a student denied admission because he did not possess Hawaiian ancestry. The settlement avoided the possibility of a decision by the United States Supreme Court on the status of Native Hawaiians. The terms of the settlement, between the schools and a student identified only as John Doe, were not disclosed. But it left in place an 8-to-7 decision of the federal appeals court in San Francisco that allows the schools to admit only students who can prove that at least one of their ancestors lived on the Hawaiian Islands in 1778, when the British explorer Capt. James Cook arrived. The Supreme Court had considered whether to hear the case four times but had not reached a decision by Friday, when the parties informed the court of the settlement. The case was dismissed the same day. The schools are the beneficiaries of the enormous legacy of a 19th-century Hawaiian princess, Bernice Pauahi Bishop, who intended them to raise the educational level of Native Hawaiians. Their endowment exceeds $6 billion. They have an enrollment of some 6,700 students, from preschool through 12th grade, with campuses on three islands and preschools throughout the state. Admission is a great prize, as older students pay about $3,000 in annual tuition for an education worth more than $20,000. The student in the suit dismissed Friday had initially sued to gain admission to the schools, but he has since graduated, making that aspect of his case moot. The settlement presumably includes a payment to him and his lawyers. In a letter released yesterday, the schools&#8217; trustees said the decision to settle was a difficult one. &#8220;We cannot ignore the treacherous landscape before us,&#8221; the trustees wrote. &#8220;It is becoming increasingly clear that this lawsuit is only one piece of a much broader risk to the rights of Native Hawaiians, as the indigenous people of this state, to manage and control our resources.&#8221; Eric Grant, a lawyer for the student, said in a e-mail message that he had no immediate comment on the settlement. The settlement does not preclude further suits challenging the admissions policy, but it could take years for another suit to reach the Supreme Court again, and there is, of course, no guarantee that the court would agree to hear it. In its decision in December, the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit ruled that students without Hawaiian ancestry could be denied admission to the schools based on their race without running afoul of a civil rights law. The majority cited what it said were unique factors in the history of Hawaii, the plight of Native Hawaiians and the schools&#8217; distinctively remedial mission. &#8220;The schools are a wholly private K-12 educational establishment, whose preferential admissions policy is meant to counteract the significant, current educational deficits of Native Hawaiian children in Hawaii,&#8221; Judge Susan P. Graber wrote for the majority. In a dissent joined at least in part by six other judges, Judge Jay S. Bybee said the schools&#8217; worthy mission nonetheless violated &#8220;the Supreme Court&#8217;s requirements for a valid affirmative action plan.&#8221; More Articles in National &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. More Articles in National &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France THE NEW YORK TIMES GUIDE TO ESSENTIAL KNOWLEDGE N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/us/15hawaii.html	Prestigious Private Schools Settle Rights Suit by a Non-Hawaiian - New York Times Prestigious Private Schools Settle Rights Suit by a Non-Hawaiian Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 15, 2007 The private Kamehameha Schools in announced yesterday that they had settled a civil rights lawsuit brought against them by a student denied admission because he did not possess Hawaiian ancestry. The settlement avoided the possibility of a decision by the United States Supreme Court on the status of Native Hawaiians. The terms of the settlement, between the schools and a student identified only as John Doe, were not disclosed. But it left in place an 8-to-7 decision of the federal appeals court in San Francisco that allows the schools to admit only students who can prove that at least one of their ancestors lived on the Hawaiian Islands in 1778, when the British explorer Capt. James Cook arrived. The Supreme Court had considered whether to hear the case four times but had not reached a decision by Friday, when the parties informed the court of the settlement. The case was dismissed the same day. The schools are the beneficiaries of the enormous legacy of a 19th-century Hawaiian princess, Bernice Pauahi Bishop, who intended them to raise the educational level of Native Hawaiians. Their endowment exceeds $6 billion. They have an enrollment of some 6,700 students, from preschool through 12th grade, with campuses on three islands and preschools throughout the state. Admission is a great prize, as older students pay about $3,000 in annual tuition for an education worth more than $20,000. The student in the suit dismissed Friday had initially sued to gain admission to the schools, but he has since graduated, making that aspect of his case moot. The settlement presumably includes a payment to him and his lawyers. In a letter released yesterday, the schools&#8217; trustees said the decision to settle was a difficult one. &#8220;We cannot ignore the treacherous landscape before us,&#8221; the trustees wrote. &#8220;It is becoming increasingly clear that this lawsuit is only one piece of a much broader risk to the rights of Native Hawaiians, as the indigenous people of this state, to manage and control our resources.&#8221; Eric Grant, a lawyer for the student, said in a e-mail message that he had no immediate comment on the settlement. The settlement does not preclude further suits challenging the admissions policy, but it could take years for another suit to reach the Supreme Court again, and there is, of course, no guarantee that the court would agree to hear it. In its decision in December, the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit ruled that students without Hawaiian ancestry could be denied admission to the schools based on their race without running afoul of a civil rights law. The majority cited what it said were unique factors in the history of Hawaii, the plight of Native Hawaiians and the schools&#8217; distinctively remedial mission. &#8220;The schools are a wholly private K-12 educational establishment, whose preferential admissions policy is meant to counteract the significant, current educational deficits of Native Hawaiian children in Hawaii,&#8221; Judge Susan P. Graber wrote for the majority. In a dissent joined at least in part by six other judges, Judge Jay S. Bybee said the schools&#8217; worthy mission nonetheless violated &#8220;the Supreme Court&#8217;s requirements for a valid affirmative action plan.&#8221; More Articles in National &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. More Articles in National &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France THE NEW YORK TIMES GUIDE TO ESSENTIAL KNOWLEDGE N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/us/15hawaii.html?ex=1336881600&en=f4317081f5b4092f&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Prestigious Private Schools Settle Rights Suit by a Non-Hawaiian - New York Times Prestigious Private Schools Settle Rights Suit by a Non-Hawaiian Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 15, 2007 The private Kamehameha Schools in announced yesterday that they had settled a civil rights lawsuit brought against them by a student denied admission because he did not possess Hawaiian ancestry. The settlement avoided the possibility of a decision by the United States Supreme Court on the status of Native Hawaiians. The terms of the settlement, between the schools and a student identified only as John Doe, were not disclosed. But it left in place an 8-to-7 decision of the federal appeals court in San Francisco that allows the schools to admit only students who can prove that at least one of their ancestors lived on the Hawaiian Islands in 1778, when the British explorer Capt. James Cook arrived. The Supreme Court had considered whether to hear the case four times but had not reached a decision by Friday, when the parties informed the court of the settlement. The case was dismissed the same day. The schools are the beneficiaries of the enormous legacy of a 19th-century Hawaiian princess, Bernice Pauahi Bishop, who intended them to raise the educational level of Native Hawaiians. Their endowment exceeds $6 billion. They have an enrollment of some 6,700 students, from preschool through 12th grade, with campuses on three islands and preschools throughout the state. Admission is a great prize, as older students pay about $3,000 in annual tuition for an education worth more than $20,000. The student in the suit dismissed Friday had initially sued to gain admission to the schools, but he has since graduated, making that aspect of his case moot. The settlement presumably includes a payment to him and his lawyers. In a letter released yesterday, the schools&#8217; trustees said the decision to settle was a difficult one. &#8220;We cannot ignore the treacherous landscape before us,&#8221; the trustees wrote. &#8220;It is becoming increasingly clear that this lawsuit is only one piece of a much broader risk to the rights of Native Hawaiians, as the indigenous people of this state, to manage and control our resources.&#8221; Eric Grant, a lawyer for the student, said in a e-mail message that he had no immediate comment on the settlement. The settlement does not preclude further suits challenging the admissions policy, but it could take years for another suit to reach the Supreme Court again, and there is, of course, no guarantee that the court would agree to hear it. In its decision in December, the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit ruled that students without Hawaiian ancestry could be denied admission to the schools based on their race without running afoul of a civil rights law. The majority cited what it said were unique factors in the history of Hawaii, the plight of Native Hawaiians and the schools&#8217; distinctively remedial mission. &#8220;The schools are a wholly private K-12 educational establishment, whose preferential admissions policy is meant to counteract the significant, current educational deficits of Native Hawaiian children in Hawaii,&#8221; Judge Susan P. Graber wrote for the majority. In a dissent joined at least in part by six other judges, Judge Jay S. Bybee said the schools&#8217; worthy mission nonetheless violated &#8220;the Supreme Court&#8217;s requirements for a valid affirmative action plan.&#8221; More Articles in National &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. More Articles in National &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/us/15hawaii.html?ex=1336881600&en=f4317081f5b4092f&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Prestigious Private Schools Settle Rights Suit by a Non-Hawaiian - New York Times Prestigious Private Schools Settle Rights Suit by a Non-Hawaiian Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 15, 2007 The private Kamehameha Schools in announced yesterday that they had settled a civil rights lawsuit brought against them by a student denied admission because he did not possess Hawaiian ancestry. The settlement avoided the possibility of a decision by the United States Supreme Court on the status of Native Hawaiians. The terms of the settlement, between the schools and a student identified only as John Doe, were not disclosed. But it left in place an 8-to-7 decision of the federal appeals court in San Francisco that allows the schools to admit only students who can prove that at least one of their ancestors lived on the Hawaiian Islands in 1778, when the British explorer Capt. James Cook arrived. The Supreme Court had considered whether to hear the case four times but had not reached a decision by Friday, when the parties informed the court of the settlement. The case was dismissed the same day. The schools are the beneficiaries of the enormous legacy of a 19th-century Hawaiian princess, Bernice Pauahi Bishop, who intended them to raise the educational level of Native Hawaiians. Their endowment exceeds $6 billion. They have an enrollment of some 6,700 students, from preschool through 12th grade, with campuses on three islands and preschools throughout the state. Admission is a great prize, as older students pay about $3,000 in annual tuition for an education worth more than $20,000. The student in the suit dismissed Friday had initially sued to gain admission to the schools, but he has since graduated, making that aspect of his case moot. The settlement presumably includes a payment to him and his lawyers. In a letter released yesterday, the schools&#8217; trustees said the decision to settle was a difficult one. &#8220;We cannot ignore the treacherous landscape before us,&#8221; the trustees wrote. &#8220;It is becoming increasingly clear that this lawsuit is only one piece of a much broader risk to the rights of Native Hawaiians, as the indigenous people of this state, to manage and control our resources.&#8221; Eric Grant, a lawyer for the student, said in a e-mail message that he had no immediate comment on the settlement. The settlement does not preclude further suits challenging the admissions policy, but it could take years for another suit to reach the Supreme Court again, and there is, of course, no guarantee that the court would agree to hear it. In its decision in December, the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit ruled that students without Hawaiian ancestry could be denied admission to the schools based on their race without running afoul of a civil rights law. The majority cited what it said were unique factors in the history of Hawaii, the plight of Native Hawaiians and the schools&#8217; distinctively remedial mission. &#8220;The schools are a wholly private K-12 educational establishment, whose preferential admissions policy is meant to counteract the significant, current educational deficits of Native Hawaiian children in Hawaii,&#8221; Judge Susan P. Graber wrote for the majority. In a dissent joined at least in part by six other judges, Judge Jay S. Bybee said the schools&#8217; worthy mission nonetheless violated &#8220;the Supreme Court&#8217;s requirements for a valid affirmative action plan.&#8221; More Articles in National &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. More Articles in National &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/nyregion/nyregionspecial2/13colct.html?ex=1336708800&en=a835f5718ebaa3f1&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Local Food 101, With a School as His Lab - New York Times Local Food 101, With a School as His Lab Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 13, 2007 Skip to next paragraph Long Island, Westchester, Connecticut and New Jersey Go to Complete Coverage » TALL, bald and of robust appetite, the chef Timothy Cipriano is casting an appreciative eye at the young free-range chickens clucking in their moveable, open-air run outside the Agriscience and Technology Center at Bloomfield High School. “By fall, I can give you three dozen eggs a week,” predicts Joseph Rodrigues, the agriscience teacher who oversees greenhouses, raised-bed gardens and a set of big, burbling aquaculture tanks. “Fantastic. We’ll do frittatas,” Mr. Cipriano murmurs. The two men are amiable and enthusiastic co-conspirators. Mr. Cipriano, the food service director for the Bloomfield school district, is also a committed activist for the Farm-to-School program, which advocates serving students fresh, locally grown and sustainable food. He is clearly delighted by Mr. Rodrigues’s next promise: “We’ll be raising tilapia. It’s a good, mild fish the kids like. I’m hoping to give you a couple of decent harvests.” Having cajoled a few students out of study hall, Mr. Rodrigues has set them to transplanting heirloom tomato seedlings in the greenhouse. He walks between potting benches reciting tomato varieties: “Moskovich. First Ladies. Juliets. The Great White ... .” The crops also include snap peas, leeks, broccoli rabe, carrots, herbs, lettuce, arugula, okra and squash. Crews of volunteer students will tend the beds over the summer, with early harvest going to a local food bank. Students also test recipes, from watermelon gazpacho to Mexican pizza, and Mr. Cipriano has gathered the favorites in a self-published compendium intended for the delectation of “Not Your Average Lunch Lady.” His most popular dish is Squapple Crisp, a toothsome bake of winter squash, apples, cinnamon and brown sugar topped with crushed cornflakes. Has he had some losers? “Kale with carrots,” he admits. “Hey, kids are kids. You can’t push it too far. And their tastes seem to change overnight.” His own children, ages 5, 3 and 2, are crazy about asparagus and anything spicy, he says, “at least for now.” At the beginning of the fall term, Mr. Cipriano, also known in these parts as the Local Food Dude, will feed some of the fresh bounty from the agriscience plots to his students, who already enjoy Connecticut-grown fare from local farms in the cafeteria. Classes in the culinary vocational program just up the hill will get baskets of produce to experiment with. At 35, Mr. Cipriano bears a physical and spiritual resemblance to that legendary evangelist for basic, homegrown American cuisine, James Beard. He says he left restaurants and corporate food service to enjoy more family time on the same schedule as his wife, who is a teacher. He was middle school chef at a private academy in Cheshire before he came here to head the kitchens last July. Though Mr. Cipriano has brought his “eat local” message to all the district’s schools, the cafeteria of the 700-student Bloomfield High is his main laboratory. Beneath posters of asking “Got Milk?” students are enjoying a “brunch for lunch” of scrambled eggs, French toast strips and a tasting of four locally harvested maple syrups. There is also an Asian stir-fry station with jasmine rice and a counter serving favorites of the area’s large West Indian population. Last growing season, Michael Buchanan, a local farmer and Jamaican immigrant, grew callaloo, a leafy vegetable also known as pepperpot, and students made short work of that taste of home. Mr. Rodrigues’s classes are also growing incendiary Scotch Bonnet peppers, a Caribbean staple, to keep dishes lively in the fall. Mr. Cipriano has noticed the added benefit of cultural commingling at the steam table as students try different cuisines. “Food is a great teaching tool,” he says. “It touches so many areas — agriculture, the environment, different cultures. It’s immediate, it’s fun and they almost forget it’s good for them, too.” In the busy kitchen, a chef, Solomon Johnson Jr., is recalling the day last fall when Mr. Cipriano floored his staff by unloading several bushels of fresh Connecticut corn. Long accustomed to simply reheating the canned version, the kitchen workers were aghast. “We steamed it and put it out there,” Mr. Cipriano says. “The kids shucked it themselves and went crazy for it. We ran out halfway through the first shift.” Mr. Cipriano says he has had consistent support from school administrators, who enjoy school-catered wraps and snacks at meetings, and the district is building an early-childhood magnet school with a farm theme and hands-on greenhouses. This summer, Mr. Cipriano has another job as manager of the new Litchfield Hills Farm-Fresh Market, which opens at Center School in Litchfield on June 30. The Food Dude will be out there every Saturday, invoking the market mantra (“Be a vocal local, buy local food”), sampling new produce, grass-fed beef and organic dairy products — and developing more recipes. “And come September,” he says, “I can’t wait to feed it all to my kids.” More Articles in New York Region &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Panel Suggests Junk Food Ban In Schools to Help Fight Obesity Agriculture Mainstay Gets an Urban Face California's Newest State University Is Short of Students House Passes a $2.7 Trillion Spending Plan More Articles in New York Region &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France 50% off Times delivery. N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/nyregion/nyregionspecial2/13colct.html?ex=1336708800&en=a835f5718ebaa3f1&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Local Food 101, With a School as His Lab - New York Times Local Food 101, With a School as His Lab Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 13, 2007 Skip to next paragraph Long Island, Westchester, Connecticut and New Jersey Go to Complete Coverage » TALL, bald and of robust appetite, the chef Timothy Cipriano is casting an appreciative eye at the young free-range chickens clucking in their moveable, open-air run outside the Agriscience and Technology Center at Bloomfield High School. “By fall, I can give you three dozen eggs a week,” predicts Joseph Rodrigues, the agriscience teacher who oversees greenhouses, raised-bed gardens and a set of big, burbling aquaculture tanks. “Fantastic. We’ll do frittatas,” Mr. Cipriano murmurs. The two men are amiable and enthusiastic co-conspirators. Mr. Cipriano, the food service director for the Bloomfield school district, is also a committed activist for the Farm-to-School program, which advocates serving students fresh, locally grown and sustainable food. He is clearly delighted by Mr. Rodrigues’s next promise: “We’ll be raising tilapia. It’s a good, mild fish the kids like. I’m hoping to give you a couple of decent harvests.” Having cajoled a few students out of study hall, Mr. Rodrigues has set them to transplanting heirloom tomato seedlings in the greenhouse. He walks between potting benches reciting tomato varieties: “Moskovich. First Ladies. Juliets. The Great White ... .” The crops also include snap peas, leeks, broccoli rabe, carrots, herbs, lettuce, arugula, okra and squash. Crews of volunteer students will tend the beds over the summer, with early harvest going to a local food bank. Students also test recipes, from watermelon gazpacho to Mexican pizza, and Mr. Cipriano has gathered the favorites in a self-published compendium intended for the delectation of “Not Your Average Lunch Lady.” His most popular dish is Squapple Crisp, a toothsome bake of winter squash, apples, cinnamon and brown sugar topped with crushed cornflakes. Has he had some losers? “Kale with carrots,” he admits. “Hey, kids are kids. You can’t push it too far. And their tastes seem to change overnight.” His own children, ages 5, 3 and 2, are crazy about asparagus and anything spicy, he says, “at least for now.” At the beginning of the fall term, Mr. Cipriano, also known in these parts as the Local Food Dude, will feed some of the fresh bounty from the agriscience plots to his students, who already enjoy Connecticut-grown fare from local farms in the cafeteria. Classes in the culinary vocational program just up the hill will get baskets of produce to experiment with. At 35, Mr. Cipriano bears a physical and spiritual resemblance to that legendary evangelist for basic, homegrown American cuisine, James Beard. He says he left restaurants and corporate food service to enjoy more family time on the same schedule as his wife, who is a teacher. He was middle school chef at a private academy in Cheshire before he came here to head the kitchens last July. Though Mr. Cipriano has brought his “eat local” message to all the district’s schools, the cafeteria of the 700-student Bloomfield High is his main laboratory. Beneath posters of asking “Got Milk?” students are enjoying a “brunch for lunch” of scrambled eggs, French toast strips and a tasting of four locally harvested maple syrups. There is also an Asian stir-fry station with jasmine rice and a counter serving favorites of the area’s large West Indian population. Last growing season, Michael Buchanan, a local farmer and Jamaican immigrant, grew callaloo, a leafy vegetable also known as pepperpot, and students made short work of that taste of home. Mr. Rodrigues’s classes are also growing incendiary Scotch Bonnet peppers, a Caribbean staple, to keep dishes lively in the fall. Mr. Cipriano has noticed the added benefit of cultural commingling at the steam table as students try different cuisines. “Food is a great teaching tool,” he says. “It touches so many areas — agriculture, the environment, different cultures. It’s immediate, it’s fun and they almost forget it’s good for them, too.” In the busy kitchen, a chef, Solomon Johnson Jr., is recalling the day last fall when Mr. Cipriano floored his staff by unloading several bushels of fresh Connecticut corn. Long accustomed to simply reheating the canned version, the kitchen workers were aghast. “We steamed it and put it out there,” Mr. Cipriano says. “The kids shucked it themselves and went crazy for it. We ran out halfway through the first shift.” Mr. Cipriano says he has had consistent support from school administrators, who enjoy school-catered wraps and snacks at meetings, and the district is building an early-childhood magnet school with a farm theme and hands-on greenhouses. This summer, Mr. Cipriano has another job as manager of the new Litchfield Hills Farm-Fresh Market, which opens at Center School in Litchfield on June 30. The Food Dude will be out there every Saturday, invoking the market mantra (“Be a vocal local, buy local food”), sampling new produce, grass-fed beef and organic dairy products — and developing more recipes. “And come September,” he says, “I can’t wait to feed it all to my kids.” More Articles in New York Region &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Panel Suggests Junk Food Ban In Schools to Help Fight Obesity Agriculture Mainstay Gets an Urban Face California's Newest State University Is Short of Students House Passes a $2.7 Trillion Spending Plan More Articles in New York Region &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France 50% off Times delivery. N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/pages/education/index.html?partner=rssnyt	Education News - All Headlines - New York Times In Study, College-Prep Classes Left Many Unready Only 26 percent of high school students who take the core courses are well prepared for college, the study says. U. of Texas Fires Officer Over Tie to Loan Company By JONATHAN D. GLATER The University of Texas has fired the director of financial aid at its Austin campus for improper conduct. Prestigious Private Schools Settle Rights Suit by a Non-Hawaiian A settlement avoided the possibility of a decision by the United States Supreme Court on the status of Native Hawaiians. 2 Suspended for School Prank That Scared Pupils in Tennessee Staff members were suspended on Monday over a prank in which sixth graders on a trip were told that a gunman was prowling nearby. Local Food 101, With a School as His Lab Timothy Cipriano, the “Local Food Dude,” is teaching Connecticut students to grow and prepare their meals. Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Briarcliff Middle School has emerged as a nationally recognized middle school that gets things right. Audio Slide Show: A Model Middle School Burglary Charge Is Costly for Rutgers Class President Christa Olandria will not be graduating with her classmates next week after being arrested for burglary along with another Rutgers senior. Visit by Bush Tests Beliefs and Hospitality of Students at a Catholic College The news that President Bush would give the commencement address at St. Vincent College was not universally welcomed. Utah: Voters Will Decide on Voucher Program Spellings Rejects Criticism on Student Loan Scandal Purdue Will Reinvestigate Its Professor Who Claimed Desktop Fusion House Passes Ban on Gifts From Student Lenders Harvard Task Force Calls for New Focus on Teaching and Not Just Research Parents and District Settle Dispute on Teacher’s Religious Remarks Arabic School Finds Temporary Home in Brooklyn Federal Student Loan Official Is Resigning On Education: English Language Learners as Pawns in the School System’s Overhaul Students Search for the Words to Go With Their Cultural Pride Whistle-Blower on Student Aid Is Vindicated Almost half of all undergraduates go to a community college, making the two-year experience as much the norm as not. Go to Special Section » Live From Washington, Opera for the College Crowd By DANIEL J. WAKIN The Washington National Opera launches a plan to bring opera into the schools. At Commencement, a Call for Religious Literacy For a long time, quite a few people assumed that a major point of higher education was to put religion behind you. A Model Middle School Winnie Hu reports on a nationally recognized model of a middle school that gets things right. Series: The Critical Years The achieving, ambitious and confident students of Newton North High School. Middle School: The Critical Years For Students, Teachers and Parents Bring today's Times into your classroom or home with daily lesson plans, news quizzes, thematic crosswords and more. Featured Resource: Class Matters Find the right camp or school for your child In the Education Marketplace: View all Camp Listings View all School Listings Post Your Ad Now! Browse College and University Topics California Institute of Technology City College of New York City University of New York Fashion Institute of Technology Georgia Institute of Technology John Jay College of Criminal Justice Manhattan School of Music Massachusetts Institute of Technology New Jersey Institute of Technology North Carolina State University Rutgers, The State University State University of New York State University of New York at Albany State University of New York at Purchase State University of New York at Stony Brook Texas A and M University United States Air Force Academy United States Naval Academy United States Military Academy University of North Carolina University of Notre Dame University of Rhode Island University of South Carolina University of Southern California Xavier University of Ohio MOST POPULAR - U.S. The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Gonzales Pressed Ailing Ashcroft on Spy Plan, Aide Says Rev. Jerry Falwell , Moral Majority Founder, Dies at 73 Bank&#8217;s Report Says Wolfowitz Violated Ethics U. of Texas Fires Officer Over Tie to Loan Company Bethel Journal: In Native Alaskan Villages, a Culture of Sorrow Oklahoma Chides Insurer in Medicare Marketing Case 2 Suspended for School Prank That Scared Pupils in Tennessee University of Texas Fires Director of Financial Aid Go to Complete List » Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq 6 Arrested in Plot to Attack Fort Dix College Loan Official Resigns U.S. Queries Filmmaker on Cuba Trip for Movie Bush Calls for Work for Higher Fuel Efficiency Harvard Task Force Calls for New Focus on Teaching and Not Just Research Agency Affirms Mandates for Driver's Licenses Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France THE NEW YORK TIMES GUIDE TO ESSENTIAL KNOWLEDGE Find a world of reasons to go. Photos, fine art, books and more. What’s new on Broadway? Get the latest business news Looking to buy a new car? Discover the best places to stay in the U.S. and around the world. The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/pages/education/index.html?partner=rssnyt	Education News - All Headlines - New York Times In Study, College-Prep Classes Left Many Unready Only 26 percent of high school students who take the core courses are well prepared for college, the study says. U. of Texas Fires Officer Over Tie to Loan Company By JONATHAN D. GLATER The University of Texas has fired the director of financial aid at its Austin campus for improper conduct. Prestigious Private Schools Settle Rights Suit by a Non-Hawaiian A settlement avoided the possibility of a decision by the United States Supreme Court on the status of Native Hawaiians. 2 Suspended for School Prank That Scared Pupils in Tennessee Staff members were suspended on Monday over a prank in which sixth graders on a trip were told that a gunman was prowling nearby. Local Food 101, With a School as His Lab Timothy Cipriano, the “Local Food Dude,” is teaching Connecticut students to grow and prepare their meals. Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Briarcliff Middle School has emerged as a nationally recognized middle school that gets things right. Audio Slide Show: A Model Middle School Burglary Charge Is Costly for Rutgers Class President Christa Olandria will not be graduating with her classmates next week after being arrested for burglary along with another Rutgers senior. Visit by Bush Tests Beliefs and Hospitality of Students at a Catholic College The news that President Bush would give the commencement address at St. Vincent College was not universally welcomed. Utah: Voters Will Decide on Voucher Program Spellings Rejects Criticism on Student Loan Scandal Purdue Will Reinvestigate Its Professor Who Claimed Desktop Fusion House Passes Ban on Gifts From Student Lenders Harvard Task Force Calls for New Focus on Teaching and Not Just Research Parents and District Settle Dispute on Teacher’s Religious Remarks Arabic School Finds Temporary Home in Brooklyn Federal Student Loan Official Is Resigning On Education: English Language Learners as Pawns in the School System’s Overhaul Students Search for the Words to Go With Their Cultural Pride Whistle-Blower on Student Aid Is Vindicated Almost half of all undergraduates go to a community college, making the two-year experience as much the norm as not. Go to Special Section » Live From Washington, Opera for the College Crowd By DANIEL J. WAKIN The Washington National Opera launches a plan to bring opera into the schools. At Commencement, a Call for Religious Literacy For a long time, quite a few people assumed that a major point of higher education was to put religion behind you. A Model Middle School Winnie Hu reports on a nationally recognized model of a middle school that gets things right. Series: The Critical Years The achieving, ambitious and confident students of Newton North High School. Middle School: The Critical Years For Students, Teachers and Parents Bring today's Times into your classroom or home with daily lesson plans, news quizzes, thematic crosswords and more. Featured Resource: Class Matters Find the right camp or school for your child In the Education Marketplace: View all Camp Listings View all School Listings Post Your Ad Now! Browse College and University Topics California Institute of Technology City College of New York City University of New York Fashion Institute of Technology Georgia Institute of Technology John Jay College of Criminal Justice Manhattan School of Music Massachusetts Institute of Technology New Jersey Institute of Technology North Carolina State University Rutgers, The State University State University of New York State University of New York at Albany State University of New York at Purchase State University of New York at Stony Brook Texas A and M University United States Air Force Academy United States Naval Academy United States Military Academy University of North Carolina University of Notre Dame University of Rhode Island University of South Carolina University of Southern California Xavier University of Ohio MOST POPULAR - U.S. The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Gonzales Pressed Ailing Ashcroft on Spy Plan, Aide Says Rev. Jerry Falwell , Moral Majority Founder, Dies at 73 Bank&#8217;s Report Says Wolfowitz Violated Ethics U. of Texas Fires Officer Over Tie to Loan Company Bethel Journal: In Native Alaskan Villages, a Culture of Sorrow Oklahoma Chides Insurer in Medicare Marketing Case 2 Suspended for School Prank That Scared Pupils in Tennessee University of Texas Fires Director of Financial Aid Go to Complete List » Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq 6 Arrested in Plot to Attack Fort Dix College Loan Official Resigns U.S. Queries Filmmaker on Cuba Trip for Movie Bush Calls for Work for Higher Fuel Efficiency Harvard Task Force Calls for New Focus on Teaching and Not Just Research Agency Affirms Mandates for Driver's Licenses Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France THE NEW YORK TIMES GUIDE TO ESSENTIAL KNOWLEDGE Find a world of reasons to go. Photos, fine art, books and more. What’s new on Broadway? Get the latest business news Looking to buy a new car? Discover the best places to stay in the U.S. and around the world. The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/pages/education/index.html	Education News - All Headlines - New York Times In Study, College-Prep Classes Left Many Unready Only 26 percent of high school students who take the core courses are well prepared for college, the study says. U. of Texas Fires Officer Over Tie to Loan Company By JONATHAN D. GLATER The University of Texas has fired the director of financial aid at its Austin campus for improper conduct. Prestigious Private Schools Settle Rights Suit by a Non-Hawaiian A settlement avoided the possibility of a decision by the United States Supreme Court on the status of Native Hawaiians. 2 Suspended for School Prank That Scared Pupils in Tennessee Staff members were suspended on Monday over a prank in which sixth graders on a trip were told that a gunman was prowling nearby. Local Food 101, With a School as His Lab Timothy Cipriano, the “Local Food Dude,” is teaching Connecticut students to grow and prepare their meals. Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Briarcliff Middle School has emerged as a nationally recognized middle school that gets things right. Audio Slide Show: A Model Middle School Burglary Charge Is Costly for Rutgers Class President Christa Olandria will not be graduating with her classmates next week after being arrested for burglary along with another Rutgers senior. Visit by Bush Tests Beliefs and Hospitality of Students at a Catholic College The news that President Bush would give the commencement address at St. Vincent College was not universally welcomed. Utah: Voters Will Decide on Voucher Program Spellings Rejects Criticism on Student Loan Scandal Purdue Will Reinvestigate Its Professor Who Claimed Desktop Fusion House Passes Ban on Gifts From Student Lenders Harvard Task Force Calls for New Focus on Teaching and Not Just Research Parents and District Settle Dispute on Teacher’s Religious Remarks Arabic School Finds Temporary Home in Brooklyn Federal Student Loan Official Is Resigning On Education: English Language Learners as Pawns in the School System’s Overhaul Students Search for the Words to Go With Their Cultural Pride Whistle-Blower on Student Aid Is Vindicated Almost half of all undergraduates go to a community college, making the two-year experience as much the norm as not. Go to Special Section » Live From Washington, Opera for the College Crowd By DANIEL J. WAKIN The Washington National Opera launches a plan to bring opera into the schools. At Commencement, a Call for Religious Literacy For a long time, quite a few people assumed that a major point of higher education was to put religion behind you. A Model Middle School Winnie Hu reports on a nationally recognized model of a middle school that gets things right. Series: The Critical Years The achieving, ambitious and confident students of Newton North High School. Middle School: The Critical Years For Students, Teachers and Parents Bring today's Times into your classroom or home with daily lesson plans, news quizzes, thematic crosswords and more. Featured Resource: Class Matters Find the right camp or school for your child In the Education Marketplace: View all Camp Listings View all School Listings Post Your Ad Now! Browse College and University Topics California Institute of Technology City College of New York City University of New York Fashion Institute of Technology Georgia Institute of Technology John Jay College of Criminal Justice Manhattan School of Music Massachusetts Institute of Technology New Jersey Institute of Technology North Carolina State University Rutgers, The State University State University of New York State University of New York at Albany State University of New York at Purchase State University of New York at Stony Brook Texas A and M University United States Air Force Academy United States Naval Academy United States Military Academy University of North Carolina University of Notre Dame University of Rhode Island University of South Carolina University of Southern California Xavier University of Ohio MOST POPULAR - U.S. The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Gonzales Pressed Ailing Ashcroft on Spy Plan, Aide Says Rev. Jerry Falwell , Moral Majority Founder, Dies at 73 Bank&#8217;s Report Says Wolfowitz Violated Ethics U. of Texas Fires Officer Over Tie to Loan Company Bethel Journal: In Native Alaskan Villages, a Culture of Sorrow Oklahoma Chides Insurer in Medicare Marketing Case 2 Suspended for School Prank That Scared Pupils in Tennessee University of Texas Fires Director of Financial Aid Go to Complete List » Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq 6 Arrested in Plot to Attack Fort Dix College Loan Official Resigns U.S. Queries Filmmaker on Cuba Trip for Movie Bush Calls for Work for Higher Fuel Efficiency Harvard Task Force Calls for New Focus on Teaching and Not Just Research Agency Affirms Mandates for Driver's Licenses Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France THE NEW YORK TIMES GUIDE TO ESSENTIAL KNOWLEDGE Plan what to see, eat and do. Photos, fine art, books and more. Start your 30-day free trial of Times Reader today. Continuous coverage of business news. Looking to buy a new car? Compare camps and schools to find the right fit for your child. The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/pages/education/index.html	Education News - All Headlines - New York Times In Study, College-Prep Classes Left Many Unready Only 26 percent of high school students who take the core courses are well prepared for college, the study says. U. of Texas Fires Officer Over Tie to Loan Company By JONATHAN D. GLATER The University of Texas has fired the director of financial aid at its Austin campus for improper conduct. Prestigious Private Schools Settle Rights Suit by a Non-Hawaiian A settlement avoided the possibility of a decision by the United States Supreme Court on the status of Native Hawaiians. 2 Suspended for School Prank That Scared Pupils in Tennessee Staff members were suspended on Monday over a prank in which sixth graders on a trip were told that a gunman was prowling nearby. Local Food 101, With a School as His Lab Timothy Cipriano, the “Local Food Dude,” is teaching Connecticut students to grow and prepare their meals. Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Briarcliff Middle School has emerged as a nationally recognized middle school that gets things right. Audio Slide Show: A Model Middle School Burglary Charge Is Costly for Rutgers Class President Christa Olandria will not be graduating with her classmates next week after being arrested for burglary along with another Rutgers senior. Visit by Bush Tests Beliefs and Hospitality of Students at a Catholic College The news that President Bush would give the commencement address at St. Vincent College was not universally welcomed. Utah: Voters Will Decide on Voucher Program Spellings Rejects Criticism on Student Loan Scandal Purdue Will Reinvestigate Its Professor Who Claimed Desktop Fusion House Passes Ban on Gifts From Student Lenders Harvard Task Force Calls for New Focus on Teaching and Not Just Research Parents and District Settle Dispute on Teacher’s Religious Remarks Arabic School Finds Temporary Home in Brooklyn Federal Student Loan Official Is Resigning On Education: English Language Learners as Pawns in the School System’s Overhaul Students Search for the Words to Go With Their Cultural Pride Whistle-Blower on Student Aid Is Vindicated Almost half of all undergraduates go to a community college, making the two-year experience as much the norm as not. Go to Special Section » Live From Washington, Opera for the College Crowd By DANIEL J. WAKIN The Washington National Opera launches a plan to bring opera into the schools. At Commencement, a Call for Religious Literacy For a long time, quite a few people assumed that a major point of higher education was to put religion behind you. A Model Middle School Winnie Hu reports on a nationally recognized model of a middle school that gets things right. Series: The Critical Years The achieving, ambitious and confident students of Newton North High School. Middle School: The Critical Years For Students, Teachers and Parents Bring today's Times into your classroom or home with daily lesson plans, news quizzes, thematic crosswords and more. Featured Resource: Class Matters Find the right camp or school for your child In the Education Marketplace: View all Camp Listings View all School Listings Post Your Ad Now! Browse College and University Topics California Institute of Technology City College of New York City University of New York Fashion Institute of Technology Georgia Institute of Technology John Jay College of Criminal Justice Manhattan School of Music Massachusetts Institute of Technology New Jersey Institute of Technology North Carolina State University Rutgers, The State University State University of New York State University of New York at Albany State University of New York at Purchase State University of New York at Stony Brook Texas A and M University United States Air Force Academy United States Naval Academy United States Military Academy University of North Carolina University of Notre Dame University of Rhode Island University of South Carolina University of Southern California Xavier University of Ohio MOST POPULAR - U.S. The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Gonzales Pressed Ailing Ashcroft on Spy Plan, Aide Says Rev. Jerry Falwell , Moral Majority Founder, Dies at 73 Bank&#8217;s Report Says Wolfowitz Violated Ethics U. of Texas Fires Officer Over Tie to Loan Company Bethel Journal: In Native Alaskan Villages, a Culture of Sorrow Oklahoma Chides Insurer in Medicare Marketing Case 2 Suspended for School Prank That Scared Pupils in Tennessee University of Texas Fires Director of Financial Aid Go to Complete List » Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq 6 Arrested in Plot to Attack Fort Dix College Loan Official Resigns U.S. Queries Filmmaker on Cuba Trip for Movie Bush Calls for Work for Higher Fuel Efficiency Harvard Task Force Calls for New Focus on Teaching and Not Just Research Agency Affirms Mandates for Driver's Licenses Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France THE NEW YORK TIMES GUIDE TO ESSENTIAL KNOWLEDGE Plan what to see, eat and do. Photos, fine art, books and more. Start your 30-day free trial of Times Reader today. Continuous coverage of business news. Looking to buy a new car? Compare camps and schools to find the right fit for your child. The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/nyregion/nyregionspecial2/13colct.html	Local Food 101, With a School as His Lab - New York Times Local Food 101, With a School as His Lab Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 13, 2007 Skip to next paragraph Long Island, Westchester, Connecticut and New Jersey Go to Complete Coverage » TALL, bald and of robust appetite, the chef Timothy Cipriano is casting an appreciative eye at the young free-range chickens clucking in their moveable, open-air run outside the Agriscience and Technology Center at Bloomfield High School. “By fall, I can give you three dozen eggs a week,” predicts Joseph Rodrigues, the agriscience teacher who oversees greenhouses, raised-bed gardens and a set of big, burbling aquaculture tanks. “Fantastic. We’ll do frittatas,” Mr. Cipriano murmurs. The two men are amiable and enthusiastic co-conspirators. Mr. Cipriano, the food service director for the Bloomfield school district, is also a committed activist for the Farm-to-School program, which advocates serving students fresh, locally grown and sustainable food. He is clearly delighted by Mr. Rodrigues’s next promise: “We’ll be raising tilapia. It’s a good, mild fish the kids like. I’m hoping to give you a couple of decent harvests.” Having cajoled a few students out of study hall, Mr. Rodrigues has set them to transplanting heirloom tomato seedlings in the greenhouse. He walks between potting benches reciting tomato varieties: “Moskovich. First Ladies. Juliets. The Great White ... .” The crops also include snap peas, leeks, broccoli rabe, carrots, herbs, lettuce, arugula, okra and squash. Crews of volunteer students will tend the beds over the summer, with early harvest going to a local food bank. Students also test recipes, from watermelon gazpacho to Mexican pizza, and Mr. Cipriano has gathered the favorites in a self-published compendium intended for the delectation of “Not Your Average Lunch Lady.” His most popular dish is Squapple Crisp, a toothsome bake of winter squash, apples, cinnamon and brown sugar topped with crushed cornflakes. Has he had some losers? “Kale with carrots,” he admits. “Hey, kids are kids. You can’t push it too far. And their tastes seem to change overnight.” His own children, ages 5, 3 and 2, are crazy about asparagus and anything spicy, he says, “at least for now.” At the beginning of the fall term, Mr. Cipriano, also known in these parts as the Local Food Dude, will feed some of the fresh bounty from the agriscience plots to his students, who already enjoy Connecticut-grown fare from local farms in the cafeteria. Classes in the culinary vocational program just up the hill will get baskets of produce to experiment with. At 35, Mr. Cipriano bears a physical and spiritual resemblance to that legendary evangelist for basic, homegrown American cuisine, James Beard. He says he left restaurants and corporate food service to enjoy more family time on the same schedule as his wife, who is a teacher. He was middle school chef at a private academy in Cheshire before he came here to head the kitchens last July. Though Mr. Cipriano has brought his “eat local” message to all the district’s schools, the cafeteria of the 700-student Bloomfield High is his main laboratory. Beneath posters of asking “Got Milk?” students are enjoying a “brunch for lunch” of scrambled eggs, French toast strips and a tasting of four locally harvested maple syrups. There is also an Asian stir-fry station with jasmine rice and a counter serving favorites of the area’s large West Indian population. Last growing season, Michael Buchanan, a local farmer and Jamaican immigrant, grew callaloo, a leafy vegetable also known as pepperpot, and students made short work of that taste of home. Mr. Rodrigues’s classes are also growing incendiary Scotch Bonnet peppers, a Caribbean staple, to keep dishes lively in the fall. Mr. Cipriano has noticed the added benefit of cultural commingling at the steam table as students try different cuisines. “Food is a great teaching tool,” he says. “It touches so many areas — agriculture, the environment, different cultures. It’s immediate, it’s fun and they almost forget it’s good for them, too.” In the busy kitchen, a chef, Solomon Johnson Jr., is recalling the day last fall when Mr. Cipriano floored his staff by unloading several bushels of fresh Connecticut corn. Long accustomed to simply reheating the canned version, the kitchen workers were aghast. “We steamed it and put it out there,” Mr. Cipriano says. “The kids shucked it themselves and went crazy for it. We ran out halfway through the first shift.” Mr. Cipriano says he has had consistent support from school administrators, who enjoy school-catered wraps and snacks at meetings, and the district is building an early-childhood magnet school with a farm theme and hands-on greenhouses. This summer, Mr. Cipriano has another job as manager of the new Litchfield Hills Farm-Fresh Market, which opens at Center School in Litchfield on June 30. The Food Dude will be out there every Saturday, invoking the market mantra (“Be a vocal local, buy local food”), sampling new produce, grass-fed beef and organic dairy products — and developing more recipes. “And come September,” he says, “I can’t wait to feed it all to my kids.” More Articles in New York Region &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Panel Suggests Junk Food Ban In Schools to Help Fight Obesity Agriculture Mainstay Gets an Urban Face California's Newest State University Is Short of Students House Passes a $2.7 Trillion Spending Plan More Articles in New York Region &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France 50% off Times delivery. THE NEW YORK TIMES GUIDE TO ESSENTIAL KNOWLEDGE N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/nyregion/nyregionspecial2/13colct.html	Local Food 101, With a School as His Lab - New York Times Local Food 101, With a School as His Lab Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 13, 2007 Skip to next paragraph Long Island, Westchester, Connecticut and New Jersey Go to Complete Coverage » TALL, bald and of robust appetite, the chef Timothy Cipriano is casting an appreciative eye at the young free-range chickens clucking in their moveable, open-air run outside the Agriscience and Technology Center at Bloomfield High School. “By fall, I can give you three dozen eggs a week,” predicts Joseph Rodrigues, the agriscience teacher who oversees greenhouses, raised-bed gardens and a set of big, burbling aquaculture tanks. “Fantastic. We’ll do frittatas,” Mr. Cipriano murmurs. The two men are amiable and enthusiastic co-conspirators. Mr. Cipriano, the food service director for the Bloomfield school district, is also a committed activist for the Farm-to-School program, which advocates serving students fresh, locally grown and sustainable food. He is clearly delighted by Mr. Rodrigues’s next promise: “We’ll be raising tilapia. It’s a good, mild fish the kids like. I’m hoping to give you a couple of decent harvests.” Having cajoled a few students out of study hall, Mr. Rodrigues has set them to transplanting heirloom tomato seedlings in the greenhouse. He walks between potting benches reciting tomato varieties: “Moskovich. First Ladies. Juliets. The Great White ... .” The crops also include snap peas, leeks, broccoli rabe, carrots, herbs, lettuce, arugula, okra and squash. Crews of volunteer students will tend the beds over the summer, with early harvest going to a local food bank. Students also test recipes, from watermelon gazpacho to Mexican pizza, and Mr. Cipriano has gathered the favorites in a self-published compendium intended for the delectation of “Not Your Average Lunch Lady.” His most popular dish is Squapple Crisp, a toothsome bake of winter squash, apples, cinnamon and brown sugar topped with crushed cornflakes. Has he had some losers? “Kale with carrots,” he admits. “Hey, kids are kids. You can’t push it too far. And their tastes seem to change overnight.” His own children, ages 5, 3 and 2, are crazy about asparagus and anything spicy, he says, “at least for now.” At the beginning of the fall term, Mr. Cipriano, also known in these parts as the Local Food Dude, will feed some of the fresh bounty from the agriscience plots to his students, who already enjoy Connecticut-grown fare from local farms in the cafeteria. Classes in the culinary vocational program just up the hill will get baskets of produce to experiment with. At 35, Mr. Cipriano bears a physical and spiritual resemblance to that legendary evangelist for basic, homegrown American cuisine, James Beard. He says he left restaurants and corporate food service to enjoy more family time on the same schedule as his wife, who is a teacher. He was middle school chef at a private academy in Cheshire before he came here to head the kitchens last July. Though Mr. Cipriano has brought his “eat local” message to all the district’s schools, the cafeteria of the 700-student Bloomfield High is his main laboratory. Beneath posters of asking “Got Milk?” students are enjoying a “brunch for lunch” of scrambled eggs, French toast strips and a tasting of four locally harvested maple syrups. There is also an Asian stir-fry station with jasmine rice and a counter serving favorites of the area’s large West Indian population. Last growing season, Michael Buchanan, a local farmer and Jamaican immigrant, grew callaloo, a leafy vegetable also known as pepperpot, and students made short work of that taste of home. Mr. Rodrigues’s classes are also growing incendiary Scotch Bonnet peppers, a Caribbean staple, to keep dishes lively in the fall. Mr. Cipriano has noticed the added benefit of cultural commingling at the steam table as students try different cuisines. “Food is a great teaching tool,” he says. “It touches so many areas — agriculture, the environment, different cultures. It’s immediate, it’s fun and they almost forget it’s good for them, too.” In the busy kitchen, a chef, Solomon Johnson Jr., is recalling the day last fall when Mr. Cipriano floored his staff by unloading several bushels of fresh Connecticut corn. Long accustomed to simply reheating the canned version, the kitchen workers were aghast. “We steamed it and put it out there,” Mr. Cipriano says. “The kids shucked it themselves and went crazy for it. We ran out halfway through the first shift.” Mr. Cipriano says he has had consistent support from school administrators, who enjoy school-catered wraps and snacks at meetings, and the district is building an early-childhood magnet school with a farm theme and hands-on greenhouses. This summer, Mr. Cipriano has another job as manager of the new Litchfield Hills Farm-Fresh Market, which opens at Center School in Litchfield on June 30. The Food Dude will be out there every Saturday, invoking the market mantra (“Be a vocal local, buy local food”), sampling new produce, grass-fed beef and organic dairy products — and developing more recipes. “And come September,” he says, “I can’t wait to feed it all to my kids.” More Articles in New York Region &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Panel Suggests Junk Food Ban In Schools to Help Fight Obesity Agriculture Mainstay Gets an Urban Face California's Newest State University Is Short of Students House Passes a $2.7 Trillion Spending Plan More Articles in New York Region &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France 50% off Times delivery. THE NEW YORK TIMES GUIDE TO ESSENTIAL KNOWLEDGE N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/us/15hawaii.html?ex=1336881600&en=f4317081f5b4092f&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Prestigious Private Schools Settle Rights Suit by a Non-Hawaiian - New York Times Prestigious Private Schools Settle Rights Suit by a Non-Hawaiian Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 15, 2007 The private Kamehameha Schools in announced yesterday that they had settled a civil rights lawsuit brought against them by a student denied admission because he did not possess Hawaiian ancestry. The settlement avoided the possibility of a decision by the United States Supreme Court on the status of Native Hawaiians. The terms of the settlement, between the schools and a student identified only as John Doe, were not disclosed. But it left in place an 8-to-7 decision of the federal appeals court in San Francisco that allows the schools to admit only students who can prove that at least one of their ancestors lived on the Hawaiian Islands in 1778, when the British explorer Capt. James Cook arrived. The Supreme Court had considered whether to hear the case four times but had not reached a decision by Friday, when the parties informed the court of the settlement. The case was dismissed the same day. The schools are the beneficiaries of the enormous legacy of a 19th-century Hawaiian princess, Bernice Pauahi Bishop, who intended them to raise the educational level of Native Hawaiians. Their endowment exceeds $6 billion. They have an enrollment of some 6,700 students, from preschool through 12th grade, with campuses on three islands and preschools throughout the state. Admission is a great prize, as older students pay about $3,000 in annual tuition for an education worth more than $20,000. The student in the suit dismissed Friday had initially sued to gain admission to the schools, but he has since graduated, making that aspect of his case moot. The settlement presumably includes a payment to him and his lawyers. In a letter released yesterday, the schools&#8217; trustees said the decision to settle was a difficult one. &#8220;We cannot ignore the treacherous landscape before us,&#8221; the trustees wrote. &#8220;It is becoming increasingly clear that this lawsuit is only one piece of a much broader risk to the rights of Native Hawaiians, as the indigenous people of this state, to manage and control our resources.&#8221; Eric Grant, a lawyer for the student, said in a e-mail message that he had no immediate comment on the settlement. The settlement does not preclude further suits challenging the admissions policy, but it could take years for another suit to reach the Supreme Court again, and there is, of course, no guarantee that the court would agree to hear it. In its decision in December, the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit ruled that students without Hawaiian ancestry could be denied admission to the schools based on their race without running afoul of a civil rights law. The majority cited what it said were unique factors in the history of Hawaii, the plight of Native Hawaiians and the schools&#8217; distinctively remedial mission. &#8220;The schools are a wholly private K-12 educational establishment, whose preferential admissions policy is meant to counteract the significant, current educational deficits of Native Hawaiian children in Hawaii,&#8221; Judge Susan P. Graber wrote for the majority. In a dissent joined at least in part by six other judges, Judge Jay S. Bybee said the schools&#8217; worthy mission nonetheless violated &#8220;the Supreme Court&#8217;s requirements for a valid affirmative action plan.&#8221; More Articles in National &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. More Articles in National &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Gonzales Pressed Ailing Ashcroft on Spy Plan, Aide Says Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/us/15hawaii.html?ex=1336881600&en=f4317081f5b4092f&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Prestigious Private Schools Settle Rights Suit by a Non-Hawaiian - New York Times Prestigious Private Schools Settle Rights Suit by a Non-Hawaiian Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 15, 2007 The private Kamehameha Schools in announced yesterday that they had settled a civil rights lawsuit brought against them by a student denied admission because he did not possess Hawaiian ancestry. The settlement avoided the possibility of a decision by the United States Supreme Court on the status of Native Hawaiians. The terms of the settlement, between the schools and a student identified only as John Doe, were not disclosed. But it left in place an 8-to-7 decision of the federal appeals court in San Francisco that allows the schools to admit only students who can prove that at least one of their ancestors lived on the Hawaiian Islands in 1778, when the British explorer Capt. James Cook arrived. The Supreme Court had considered whether to hear the case four times but had not reached a decision by Friday, when the parties informed the court of the settlement. The case was dismissed the same day. The schools are the beneficiaries of the enormous legacy of a 19th-century Hawaiian princess, Bernice Pauahi Bishop, who intended them to raise the educational level of Native Hawaiians. Their endowment exceeds $6 billion. They have an enrollment of some 6,700 students, from preschool through 12th grade, with campuses on three islands and preschools throughout the state. Admission is a great prize, as older students pay about $3,000 in annual tuition for an education worth more than $20,000. The student in the suit dismissed Friday had initially sued to gain admission to the schools, but he has since graduated, making that aspect of his case moot. The settlement presumably includes a payment to him and his lawyers. In a letter released yesterday, the schools&#8217; trustees said the decision to settle was a difficult one. &#8220;We cannot ignore the treacherous landscape before us,&#8221; the trustees wrote. &#8220;It is becoming increasingly clear that this lawsuit is only one piece of a much broader risk to the rights of Native Hawaiians, as the indigenous people of this state, to manage and control our resources.&#8221; Eric Grant, a lawyer for the student, said in a e-mail message that he had no immediate comment on the settlement. The settlement does not preclude further suits challenging the admissions policy, but it could take years for another suit to reach the Supreme Court again, and there is, of course, no guarantee that the court would agree to hear it. In its decision in December, the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit ruled that students without Hawaiian ancestry could be denied admission to the schools based on their race without running afoul of a civil rights law. The majority cited what it said were unique factors in the history of Hawaii, the plight of Native Hawaiians and the schools&#8217; distinctively remedial mission. &#8220;The schools are a wholly private K-12 educational establishment, whose preferential admissions policy is meant to counteract the significant, current educational deficits of Native Hawaiian children in Hawaii,&#8221; Judge Susan P. Graber wrote for the majority. In a dissent joined at least in part by six other judges, Judge Jay S. Bybee said the schools&#8217; worthy mission nonetheless violated &#8220;the Supreme Court&#8217;s requirements for a valid affirmative action plan.&#8221; More Articles in National &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. More Articles in National &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Gonzales Pressed Ailing Ashcroft on Spy Plan, Aide Says Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/nyregion/nyregionspecial2/13colct.html?ex=1336708800&en=a835f5718ebaa3f1&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Local Food 101, With a School as His Lab - New York Times Local Food 101, With a School as His Lab Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 13, 2007 Skip to next paragraph Long Island, Westchester, Connecticut and New Jersey Go to Complete Coverage » TALL, bald and of robust appetite, the chef Timothy Cipriano is casting an appreciative eye at the young free-range chickens clucking in their moveable, open-air run outside the Agriscience and Technology Center at Bloomfield High School. “By fall, I can give you three dozen eggs a week,” predicts Joseph Rodrigues, the agriscience teacher who oversees greenhouses, raised-bed gardens and a set of big, burbling aquaculture tanks. “Fantastic. We’ll do frittatas,” Mr. Cipriano murmurs. The two men are amiable and enthusiastic co-conspirators. Mr. Cipriano, the food service director for the Bloomfield school district, is also a committed activist for the Farm-to-School program, which advocates serving students fresh, locally grown and sustainable food. He is clearly delighted by Mr. Rodrigues’s next promise: “We’ll be raising tilapia. It’s a good, mild fish the kids like. I’m hoping to give you a couple of decent harvests.” Having cajoled a few students out of study hall, Mr. Rodrigues has set them to transplanting heirloom tomato seedlings in the greenhouse. He walks between potting benches reciting tomato varieties: “Moskovich. First Ladies. Juliets. The Great White ... .” The crops also include snap peas, leeks, broccoli rabe, carrots, herbs, lettuce, arugula, okra and squash. Crews of volunteer students will tend the beds over the summer, with early harvest going to a local food bank. Students also test recipes, from watermelon gazpacho to Mexican pizza, and Mr. Cipriano has gathered the favorites in a self-published compendium intended for the delectation of “Not Your Average Lunch Lady.” His most popular dish is Squapple Crisp, a toothsome bake of winter squash, apples, cinnamon and brown sugar topped with crushed cornflakes. Has he had some losers? “Kale with carrots,” he admits. “Hey, kids are kids. You can’t push it too far. And their tastes seem to change overnight.” His own children, ages 5, 3 and 2, are crazy about asparagus and anything spicy, he says, “at least for now.” At the beginning of the fall term, Mr. Cipriano, also known in these parts as the Local Food Dude, will feed some of the fresh bounty from the agriscience plots to his students, who already enjoy Connecticut-grown fare from local farms in the cafeteria. Classes in the culinary vocational program just up the hill will get baskets of produce to experiment with. At 35, Mr. Cipriano bears a physical and spiritual resemblance to that legendary evangelist for basic, homegrown American cuisine, James Beard. He says he left restaurants and corporate food service to enjoy more family time on the same schedule as his wife, who is a teacher. He was middle school chef at a private academy in Cheshire before he came here to head the kitchens last July. Though Mr. Cipriano has brought his “eat local” message to all the district’s schools, the cafeteria of the 700-student Bloomfield High is his main laboratory. Beneath posters of asking “Got Milk?” students are enjoying a “brunch for lunch” of scrambled eggs, French toast strips and a tasting of four locally harvested maple syrups. There is also an Asian stir-fry station with jasmine rice and a counter serving favorites of the area’s large West Indian population. Last growing season, Michael Buchanan, a local farmer and Jamaican immigrant, grew callaloo, a leafy vegetable also known as pepperpot, and students made short work of that taste of home. Mr. Rodrigues’s classes are also growing incendiary Scotch Bonnet peppers, a Caribbean staple, to keep dishes lively in the fall. Mr. Cipriano has noticed the added benefit of cultural commingling at the steam table as students try different cuisines. “Food is a great teaching tool,” he says. “It touches so many areas — agriculture, the environment, different cultures. It’s immediate, it’s fun and they almost forget it’s good for them, too.” In the busy kitchen, a chef, Solomon Johnson Jr., is recalling the day last fall when Mr. Cipriano floored his staff by unloading several bushels of fresh Connecticut corn. Long accustomed to simply reheating the canned version, the kitchen workers were aghast. “We steamed it and put it out there,” Mr. Cipriano says. “The kids shucked it themselves and went crazy for it. We ran out halfway through the first shift.” Mr. Cipriano says he has had consistent support from school administrators, who enjoy school-catered wraps and snacks at meetings, and the district is building an early-childhood magnet school with a farm theme and hands-on greenhouses. This summer, Mr. Cipriano has another job as manager of the new Litchfield Hills Farm-Fresh Market, which opens at Center School in Litchfield on June 30. The Food Dude will be out there every Saturday, invoking the market mantra (“Be a vocal local, buy local food”), sampling new produce, grass-fed beef and organic dairy products — and developing more recipes. “And come September,” he says, “I can’t wait to feed it all to my kids.” More Articles in New York Region &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Panel Suggests Junk Food Ban In Schools to Help Fight Obesity Agriculture Mainstay Gets an Urban Face California's Newest State University Is Short of Students House Passes a $2.7 Trillion Spending Plan More Articles in New York Region &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Gonzales Pressed Ailing Ashcroft on Spy Plan, Aide Says Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France 50% off Times delivery. THE NEW YORK TIMES GUIDE TO ESSENTIAL KNOWLEDGE N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/nyregion/nyregionspecial2/13colct.html?ex=1336708800&en=a835f5718ebaa3f1&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Local Food 101, With a School as His Lab - New York Times Local Food 101, With a School as His Lab Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 13, 2007 Skip to next paragraph Long Island, Westchester, Connecticut and New Jersey Go to Complete Coverage » TALL, bald and of robust appetite, the chef Timothy Cipriano is casting an appreciative eye at the young free-range chickens clucking in their moveable, open-air run outside the Agriscience and Technology Center at Bloomfield High School. “By fall, I can give you three dozen eggs a week,” predicts Joseph Rodrigues, the agriscience teacher who oversees greenhouses, raised-bed gardens and a set of big, burbling aquaculture tanks. “Fantastic. We’ll do frittatas,” Mr. Cipriano murmurs. The two men are amiable and enthusiastic co-conspirators. Mr. Cipriano, the food service director for the Bloomfield school district, is also a committed activist for the Farm-to-School program, which advocates serving students fresh, locally grown and sustainable food. He is clearly delighted by Mr. Rodrigues’s next promise: “We’ll be raising tilapia. It’s a good, mild fish the kids like. I’m hoping to give you a couple of decent harvests.” Having cajoled a few students out of study hall, Mr. Rodrigues has set them to transplanting heirloom tomato seedlings in the greenhouse. He walks between potting benches reciting tomato varieties: “Moskovich. First Ladies. Juliets. The Great White ... .” The crops also include snap peas, leeks, broccoli rabe, carrots, herbs, lettuce, arugula, okra and squash. Crews of volunteer students will tend the beds over the summer, with early harvest going to a local food bank. Students also test recipes, from watermelon gazpacho to Mexican pizza, and Mr. Cipriano has gathered the favorites in a self-published compendium intended for the delectation of “Not Your Average Lunch Lady.” His most popular dish is Squapple Crisp, a toothsome bake of winter squash, apples, cinnamon and brown sugar topped with crushed cornflakes. Has he had some losers? “Kale with carrots,” he admits. “Hey, kids are kids. You can’t push it too far. And their tastes seem to change overnight.” His own children, ages 5, 3 and 2, are crazy about asparagus and anything spicy, he says, “at least for now.” At the beginning of the fall term, Mr. Cipriano, also known in these parts as the Local Food Dude, will feed some of the fresh bounty from the agriscience plots to his students, who already enjoy Connecticut-grown fare from local farms in the cafeteria. Classes in the culinary vocational program just up the hill will get baskets of produce to experiment with. At 35, Mr. Cipriano bears a physical and spiritual resemblance to that legendary evangelist for basic, homegrown American cuisine, James Beard. He says he left restaurants and corporate food service to enjoy more family time on the same schedule as his wife, who is a teacher. He was middle school chef at a private academy in Cheshire before he came here to head the kitchens last July. Though Mr. Cipriano has brought his “eat local” message to all the district’s schools, the cafeteria of the 700-student Bloomfield High is his main laboratory. Beneath posters of asking “Got Milk?” students are enjoying a “brunch for lunch” of scrambled eggs, French toast strips and a tasting of four locally harvested maple syrups. There is also an Asian stir-fry station with jasmine rice and a counter serving favorites of the area’s large West Indian population. Last growing season, Michael Buchanan, a local farmer and Jamaican immigrant, grew callaloo, a leafy vegetable also known as pepperpot, and students made short work of that taste of home. Mr. Rodrigues’s classes are also growing incendiary Scotch Bonnet peppers, a Caribbean staple, to keep dishes lively in the fall. Mr. Cipriano has noticed the added benefit of cultural commingling at the steam table as students try different cuisines. “Food is a great teaching tool,” he says. “It touches so many areas — agriculture, the environment, different cultures. It’s immediate, it’s fun and they almost forget it’s good for them, too.” In the busy kitchen, a chef, Solomon Johnson Jr., is recalling the day last fall when Mr. Cipriano floored his staff by unloading several bushels of fresh Connecticut corn. Long accustomed to simply reheating the canned version, the kitchen workers were aghast. “We steamed it and put it out there,” Mr. Cipriano says. “The kids shucked it themselves and went crazy for it. We ran out halfway through the first shift.” Mr. Cipriano says he has had consistent support from school administrators, who enjoy school-catered wraps and snacks at meetings, and the district is building an early-childhood magnet school with a farm theme and hands-on greenhouses. This summer, Mr. Cipriano has another job as manager of the new Litchfield Hills Farm-Fresh Market, which opens at Center School in Litchfield on June 30. The Food Dude will be out there every Saturday, invoking the market mantra (“Be a vocal local, buy local food”), sampling new produce, grass-fed beef and organic dairy products — and developing more recipes. “And come September,” he says, “I can’t wait to feed it all to my kids.” More Articles in New York Region &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Panel Suggests Junk Food Ban In Schools to Help Fight Obesity Agriculture Mainstay Gets an Urban Face California's Newest State University Is Short of Students House Passes a $2.7 Trillion Spending Plan More Articles in New York Region &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Gonzales Pressed Ailing Ashcroft on Spy Plan, Aide Says Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France 50% off Times delivery. THE NEW YORK TIMES GUIDE TO ESSENTIAL KNOWLEDGE N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/pages/education/index.html?partner=rssnyt	Education News - All Headlines - New York Times In Study, College-Prep Classes Left Many Unready Only 26 percent of high school students who take the core courses are well prepared for college, the study says. U. of Texas Fires Officer Over Tie to Loan Company By JONATHAN D. GLATER The University of Texas has fired the director of financial aid at its Austin campus for improper conduct. Prestigious Private Schools Settle Rights Suit by a Non-Hawaiian A settlement avoided the possibility of a decision by the United States Supreme Court on the status of Native Hawaiians. 2 Suspended for School Prank That Scared Pupils in Tennessee Staff members were suspended on Monday over a prank in which sixth graders on a trip were told that a gunman was prowling nearby. Local Food 101, With a School as His Lab Timothy Cipriano, the “Local Food Dude,” is teaching Connecticut students to grow and prepare their meals. Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Briarcliff Middle School has emerged as a nationally recognized middle school that gets things right. Audio Slide Show: A Model Middle School Burglary Charge Is Costly for Rutgers Class President Christa Olandria will not be graduating with her classmates next week after being arrested for burglary along with another Rutgers senior. Visit by Bush Tests Beliefs and Hospitality of Students at a Catholic College The news that President Bush would give the commencement address at St. Vincent College was not universally welcomed. Utah: Voters Will Decide on Voucher Program Spellings Rejects Criticism on Student Loan Scandal Purdue Will Reinvestigate Its Professor Who Claimed Desktop Fusion House Passes Ban on Gifts From Student Lenders Harvard Task Force Calls for New Focus on Teaching and Not Just Research Parents and District Settle Dispute on Teacher’s Religious Remarks Arabic School Finds Temporary Home in Brooklyn Federal Student Loan Official Is Resigning On Education: English Language Learners as Pawns in the School System’s Overhaul Students Search for the Words to Go With Their Cultural Pride Whistle-Blower on Student Aid Is Vindicated Almost half of all undergraduates go to a community college, making the two-year experience as much the norm as not. Go to Special Section » Live From Washington, Opera for the College Crowd By DANIEL J. WAKIN The Washington National Opera launches a plan to bring opera into the schools. At Commencement, a Call for Religious Literacy For a long time, quite a few people assumed that a major point of higher education was to put religion behind you. A Model Middle School Winnie Hu reports on a nationally recognized model of a middle school that gets things right. Series: The Critical Years The achieving, ambitious and confident students of Newton North High School. Middle School: The Critical Years For Students, Teachers and Parents Bring today's Times into your classroom or home with daily lesson plans, news quizzes, thematic crosswords and more. Featured Resource: Class Matters Find the right camp or school for your child In the Education Marketplace: View all Camp Listings View all School Listings Post Your Ad Now! Browse College and University Topics California Institute of Technology City College of New York City University of New York Fashion Institute of Technology Georgia Institute of Technology John Jay College of Criminal Justice Manhattan School of Music Massachusetts Institute of Technology New Jersey Institute of Technology North Carolina State University Rutgers, The State University State University of New York State University of New York at Albany State University of New York at Purchase State University of New York at Stony Brook Texas A and M University United States Air Force Academy United States Naval Academy United States Military Academy University of North Carolina University of Notre Dame University of Rhode Island University of South Carolina University of Southern California Xavier University of Ohio MOST POPULAR - U.S. The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Gonzales Pressed Ailing Ashcroft on Spy Plan, Aide Says Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Rev. Jerry Falwell , Moral Majority Founder, Dies at 73 Bank&#8217;s Report Says Wolfowitz Violated Ethics U. of Texas Fires Officer Over Tie to Loan Company Bethel Journal: In Native Alaskan Villages, a Culture of Sorrow Oklahoma Chides Insurer in Medicare Marketing Case 2 Suspended for School Prank That Scared Pupils in Tennessee University of Texas Fires Director of Financial Aid Go to Complete List » Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq 6 Arrested in Plot to Attack Fort Dix College Loan Official Resigns U.S. Queries Filmmaker on Cuba Trip for Movie Bush Calls for Work for Higher Fuel Efficiency Harvard Task Force Calls for New Focus on Teaching and Not Just Research Agency Affirms Mandates for Driver's Licenses Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France THE NEW YORK TIMES GUIDE TO ESSENTIAL KNOWLEDGE Buy, sell or rent a home. Discover the best places to stay in the U.S. and around the world. Photos, fine art, books and more. Post a job online today! Get the latest business news Looking to buy a new car? The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/pages/education/index.html?partner=rssnyt	Education News - All Headlines - New York Times In Study, College-Prep Classes Left Many Unready Only 26 percent of high school students who take the core courses are well prepared for college, the study says. U. of Texas Fires Officer Over Tie to Loan Company By JONATHAN D. GLATER The University of Texas has fired the director of financial aid at its Austin campus for improper conduct. Prestigious Private Schools Settle Rights Suit by a Non-Hawaiian A settlement avoided the possibility of a decision by the United States Supreme Court on the status of Native Hawaiians. 2 Suspended for School Prank That Scared Pupils in Tennessee Staff members were suspended on Monday over a prank in which sixth graders on a trip were told that a gunman was prowling nearby. Local Food 101, With a School as His Lab Timothy Cipriano, the “Local Food Dude,” is teaching Connecticut students to grow and prepare their meals. Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Briarcliff Middle School has emerged as a nationally recognized middle school that gets things right. Audio Slide Show: A Model Middle School Burglary Charge Is Costly for Rutgers Class President Christa Olandria will not be graduating with her classmates next week after being arrested for burglary along with another Rutgers senior. Visit by Bush Tests Beliefs and Hospitality of Students at a Catholic College The news that President Bush would give the commencement address at St. Vincent College was not universally welcomed. Utah: Voters Will Decide on Voucher Program Spellings Rejects Criticism on Student Loan Scandal Purdue Will Reinvestigate Its Professor Who Claimed Desktop Fusion House Passes Ban on Gifts From Student Lenders Harvard Task Force Calls for New Focus on Teaching and Not Just Research Parents and District Settle Dispute on Teacher’s Religious Remarks Arabic School Finds Temporary Home in Brooklyn Federal Student Loan Official Is Resigning On Education: English Language Learners as Pawns in the School System’s Overhaul Students Search for the Words to Go With Their Cultural Pride Whistle-Blower on Student Aid Is Vindicated Almost half of all undergraduates go to a community college, making the two-year experience as much the norm as not. Go to Special Section » Live From Washington, Opera for the College Crowd By DANIEL J. WAKIN The Washington National Opera launches a plan to bring opera into the schools. At Commencement, a Call for Religious Literacy For a long time, quite a few people assumed that a major point of higher education was to put religion behind you. A Model Middle School Winnie Hu reports on a nationally recognized model of a middle school that gets things right. Series: The Critical Years The achieving, ambitious and confident students of Newton North High School. Middle School: The Critical Years For Students, Teachers and Parents Bring today's Times into your classroom or home with daily lesson plans, news quizzes, thematic crosswords and more. Featured Resource: Class Matters Find the right camp or school for your child In the Education Marketplace: View all Camp Listings View all School Listings Post Your Ad Now! Browse College and University Topics California Institute of Technology City College of New York City University of New York Fashion Institute of Technology Georgia Institute of Technology John Jay College of Criminal Justice Manhattan School of Music Massachusetts Institute of Technology New Jersey Institute of Technology North Carolina State University Rutgers, The State University State University of New York State University of New York at Albany State University of New York at Purchase State University of New York at Stony Brook Texas A and M University United States Air Force Academy United States Naval Academy United States Military Academy University of North Carolina University of Notre Dame University of Rhode Island University of South Carolina University of Southern California Xavier University of Ohio MOST POPULAR - U.S. The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Gonzales Pressed Ailing Ashcroft on Spy Plan, Aide Says Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Rev. Jerry Falwell , Moral Majority Founder, Dies at 73 Bank&#8217;s Report Says Wolfowitz Violated Ethics U. of Texas Fires Officer Over Tie to Loan Company Bethel Journal: In Native Alaskan Villages, a Culture of Sorrow Oklahoma Chides Insurer in Medicare Marketing Case 2 Suspended for School Prank That Scared Pupils in Tennessee University of Texas Fires Director of Financial Aid Go to Complete List » Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq 6 Arrested in Plot to Attack Fort Dix College Loan Official Resigns U.S. Queries Filmmaker on Cuba Trip for Movie Bush Calls for Work for Higher Fuel Efficiency Harvard Task Force Calls for New Focus on Teaching and Not Just Research Agency Affirms Mandates for Driver's Licenses Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France THE NEW YORK TIMES GUIDE TO ESSENTIAL KNOWLEDGE Buy, sell or rent a home. Discover the best places to stay in the U.S. and around the world. Photos, fine art, books and more. Post a job online today! Get the latest business news Looking to buy a new car? The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/pages/education/index.html	Education News - All Headlines - New York Times In Study, College-Prep Classes Left Many Unready Only 26 percent of high school students who take the core courses are well prepared for college, the study says. U. of Texas Fires Officer Over Tie to Loan Company By JONATHAN D. GLATER The University of Texas has fired the director of financial aid at its Austin campus for improper conduct. Prestigious Private Schools Settle Rights Suit by a Non-Hawaiian A settlement avoided the possibility of a decision by the United States Supreme Court on the status of Native Hawaiians. 2 Suspended for School Prank That Scared Pupils in Tennessee Staff members were suspended on Monday over a prank in which sixth graders on a trip were told that a gunman was prowling nearby. Local Food 101, With a School as His Lab Timothy Cipriano, the “Local Food Dude,” is teaching Connecticut students to grow and prepare their meals. Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Briarcliff Middle School has emerged as a nationally recognized middle school that gets things right. Audio Slide Show: A Model Middle School Burglary Charge Is Costly for Rutgers Class President Christa Olandria will not be graduating with her classmates next week after being arrested for burglary along with another Rutgers senior. Visit by Bush Tests Beliefs and Hospitality of Students at a Catholic College The news that President Bush would give the commencement address at St. Vincent College was not universally welcomed. Utah: Voters Will Decide on Voucher Program Spellings Rejects Criticism on Student Loan Scandal Purdue Will Reinvestigate Its Professor Who Claimed Desktop Fusion House Passes Ban on Gifts From Student Lenders Harvard Task Force Calls for New Focus on Teaching and Not Just Research Parents and District Settle Dispute on Teacher’s Religious Remarks Arabic School Finds Temporary Home in Brooklyn Federal Student Loan Official Is Resigning On Education: English Language Learners as Pawns in the School System’s Overhaul Students Search for the Words to Go With Their Cultural Pride Whistle-Blower on Student Aid Is Vindicated Almost half of all undergraduates go to a community college, making the two-year experience as much the norm as not. Go to Special Section » Live From Washington, Opera for the College Crowd By DANIEL J. WAKIN The Washington National Opera launches a plan to bring opera into the schools. At Commencement, a Call for Religious Literacy For a long time, quite a few people assumed that a major point of higher education was to put religion behind you. A Model Middle School Winnie Hu reports on a nationally recognized model of a middle school that gets things right. Series: The Critical Years The achieving, ambitious and confident students of Newton North High School. Middle School: The Critical Years For Students, Teachers and Parents Bring today's Times into your classroom or home with daily lesson plans, news quizzes, thematic crosswords and more. Featured Resource: Class Matters Find the right camp or school for your child In the Education Marketplace: View all Camp Listings View all School Listings Post Your Ad Now! Browse College and University Topics California Institute of Technology City College of New York City University of New York Fashion Institute of Technology Georgia Institute of Technology John Jay College of Criminal Justice Manhattan School of Music Massachusetts Institute of Technology New Jersey Institute of Technology North Carolina State University Rutgers, The State University State University of New York State University of New York at Albany State University of New York at Purchase State University of New York at Stony Brook Texas A and M University United States Air Force Academy United States Naval Academy United States Military Academy University of North Carolina University of Notre Dame University of Rhode Island University of South Carolina University of Southern California Xavier University of Ohio MOST POPULAR - U.S. The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Gonzales Pressed Ailing Ashcroft on Spy Plan, Aide Says Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Rev. Jerry Falwell , Moral Majority Founder, Dies at 73 Bank&#8217;s Report Says Wolfowitz Violated Ethics U. of Texas Fires Officer Over Tie to Loan Company Bethel Journal: In Native Alaskan Villages, a Culture of Sorrow Oklahoma Chides Insurer in Medicare Marketing Case 2 Suspended for School Prank That Scared Pupils in Tennessee University of Texas Fires Director of Financial Aid Go to Complete List » Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq 6 Arrested in Plot to Attack Fort Dix College Loan Official Resigns U.S. Queries Filmmaker on Cuba Trip for Movie Bush Calls for Work for Higher Fuel Efficiency Harvard Task Force Calls for New Focus on Teaching and Not Just Research Agency Affirms Mandates for Driver's Licenses Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France THE NEW YORK TIMES GUIDE TO ESSENTIAL KNOWLEDGE Looking to buy a new car? What’s new on Broadway? Buy, sell or rent a home. Start your 30-day free trial of Times Reader today. Looking for a job? Photos, fine art, books and more. The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/pages/education/index.html	Education News - All Headlines - New York Times In Study, College-Prep Classes Left Many Unready Only 26 percent of high school students who take the core courses are well prepared for college, the study says. U. of Texas Fires Officer Over Tie to Loan Company By JONATHAN D. GLATER The University of Texas has fired the director of financial aid at its Austin campus for improper conduct. Prestigious Private Schools Settle Rights Suit by a Non-Hawaiian A settlement avoided the possibility of a decision by the United States Supreme Court on the status of Native Hawaiians. 2 Suspended for School Prank That Scared Pupils in Tennessee Staff members were suspended on Monday over a prank in which sixth graders on a trip were told that a gunman was prowling nearby. Local Food 101, With a School as His Lab Timothy Cipriano, the “Local Food Dude,” is teaching Connecticut students to grow and prepare their meals. Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Briarcliff Middle School has emerged as a nationally recognized middle school that gets things right. Audio Slide Show: A Model Middle School Burglary Charge Is Costly for Rutgers Class President Christa Olandria will not be graduating with her classmates next week after being arrested for burglary along with another Rutgers senior. Visit by Bush Tests Beliefs and Hospitality of Students at a Catholic College The news that President Bush would give the commencement address at St. Vincent College was not universally welcomed. Utah: Voters Will Decide on Voucher Program Spellings Rejects Criticism on Student Loan Scandal Purdue Will Reinvestigate Its Professor Who Claimed Desktop Fusion House Passes Ban on Gifts From Student Lenders Harvard Task Force Calls for New Focus on Teaching and Not Just Research Parents and District Settle Dispute on Teacher’s Religious Remarks Arabic School Finds Temporary Home in Brooklyn Federal Student Loan Official Is Resigning On Education: English Language Learners as Pawns in the School System’s Overhaul Students Search for the Words to Go With Their Cultural Pride Whistle-Blower on Student Aid Is Vindicated Almost half of all undergraduates go to a community college, making the two-year experience as much the norm as not. Go to Special Section » Live From Washington, Opera for the College Crowd By DANIEL J. WAKIN The Washington National Opera launches a plan to bring opera into the schools. At Commencement, a Call for Religious Literacy For a long time, quite a few people assumed that a major point of higher education was to put religion behind you. A Model Middle School Winnie Hu reports on a nationally recognized model of a middle school that gets things right. Series: The Critical Years The achieving, ambitious and confident students of Newton North High School. Middle School: The Critical Years For Students, Teachers and Parents Bring today's Times into your classroom or home with daily lesson plans, news quizzes, thematic crosswords and more. Featured Resource: Class Matters Find the right camp or school for your child In the Education Marketplace: View all Camp Listings View all School Listings Post Your Ad Now! Browse College and University Topics California Institute of Technology City College of New York City University of New York Fashion Institute of Technology Georgia Institute of Technology John Jay College of Criminal Justice Manhattan School of Music Massachusetts Institute of Technology New Jersey Institute of Technology North Carolina State University Rutgers, The State University State University of New York State University of New York at Albany State University of New York at Purchase State University of New York at Stony Brook Texas A and M University United States Air Force Academy United States Naval Academy United States Military Academy University of North Carolina University of Notre Dame University of Rhode Island University of South Carolina University of Southern California Xavier University of Ohio MOST POPULAR - U.S. The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Gonzales Pressed Ailing Ashcroft on Spy Plan, Aide Says Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Rev. Jerry Falwell , Moral Majority Founder, Dies at 73 Bank&#8217;s Report Says Wolfowitz Violated Ethics U. of Texas Fires Officer Over Tie to Loan Company Bethel Journal: In Native Alaskan Villages, a Culture of Sorrow Oklahoma Chides Insurer in Medicare Marketing Case 2 Suspended for School Prank That Scared Pupils in Tennessee University of Texas Fires Director of Financial Aid Go to Complete List » Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq 6 Arrested in Plot to Attack Fort Dix College Loan Official Resigns U.S. Queries Filmmaker on Cuba Trip for Movie Bush Calls for Work for Higher Fuel Efficiency Harvard Task Force Calls for New Focus on Teaching and Not Just Research Agency Affirms Mandates for Driver's Licenses Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France THE NEW YORK TIMES GUIDE TO ESSENTIAL KNOWLEDGE Looking to buy a new car? What’s new on Broadway? Buy, sell or rent a home. Start your 30-day free trial of Times Reader today. Looking for a job? Photos, fine art, books and more. The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/nyregion/nyregionspecial2/13colct.html	Local Food 101, With a School as His Lab - New York Times Local Food 101, With a School as His Lab Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 13, 2007 Skip to next paragraph Long Island, Westchester, Connecticut and New Jersey Go to Complete Coverage » TALL, bald and of robust appetite, the chef Timothy Cipriano is casting an appreciative eye at the young free-range chickens clucking in their moveable, open-air run outside the Agriscience and Technology Center at Bloomfield High School. “By fall, I can give you three dozen eggs a week,” predicts Joseph Rodrigues, the agriscience teacher who oversees greenhouses, raised-bed gardens and a set of big, burbling aquaculture tanks. “Fantastic. We’ll do frittatas,” Mr. Cipriano murmurs. The two men are amiable and enthusiastic co-conspirators. Mr. Cipriano, the food service director for the Bloomfield school district, is also a committed activist for the Farm-to-School program, which advocates serving students fresh, locally grown and sustainable food. He is clearly delighted by Mr. Rodrigues’s next promise: “We’ll be raising tilapia. It’s a good, mild fish the kids like. I’m hoping to give you a couple of decent harvests.” Having cajoled a few students out of study hall, Mr. Rodrigues has set them to transplanting heirloom tomato seedlings in the greenhouse. He walks between potting benches reciting tomato varieties: “Moskovich. First Ladies. Juliets. The Great White ... .” The crops also include snap peas, leeks, broccoli rabe, carrots, herbs, lettuce, arugula, okra and squash. Crews of volunteer students will tend the beds over the summer, with early harvest going to a local food bank. Students also test recipes, from watermelon gazpacho to Mexican pizza, and Mr. Cipriano has gathered the favorites in a self-published compendium intended for the delectation of “Not Your Average Lunch Lady.” His most popular dish is Squapple Crisp, a toothsome bake of winter squash, apples, cinnamon and brown sugar topped with crushed cornflakes. Has he had some losers? “Kale with carrots,” he admits. “Hey, kids are kids. You can’t push it too far. And their tastes seem to change overnight.” His own children, ages 5, 3 and 2, are crazy about asparagus and anything spicy, he says, “at least for now.” At the beginning of the fall term, Mr. Cipriano, also known in these parts as the Local Food Dude, will feed some of the fresh bounty from the agriscience plots to his students, who already enjoy Connecticut-grown fare from local farms in the cafeteria. Classes in the culinary vocational program just up the hill will get baskets of produce to experiment with. At 35, Mr. Cipriano bears a physical and spiritual resemblance to that legendary evangelist for basic, homegrown American cuisine, James Beard. He says he left restaurants and corporate food service to enjoy more family time on the same schedule as his wife, who is a teacher. He was middle school chef at a private academy in Cheshire before he came here to head the kitchens last July. Though Mr. Cipriano has brought his “eat local” message to all the district’s schools, the cafeteria of the 700-student Bloomfield High is his main laboratory. Beneath posters of asking “Got Milk?” students are enjoying a “brunch for lunch” of scrambled eggs, French toast strips and a tasting of four locally harvested maple syrups. There is also an Asian stir-fry station with jasmine rice and a counter serving favorites of the area’s large West Indian population. Last growing season, Michael Buchanan, a local farmer and Jamaican immigrant, grew callaloo, a leafy vegetable also known as pepperpot, and students made short work of that taste of home. Mr. Rodrigues’s classes are also growing incendiary Scotch Bonnet peppers, a Caribbean staple, to keep dishes lively in the fall. Mr. Cipriano has noticed the added benefit of cultural commingling at the steam table as students try different cuisines. “Food is a great teaching tool,” he says. “It touches so many areas — agriculture, the environment, different cultures. It’s immediate, it’s fun and they almost forget it’s good for them, too.” In the busy kitchen, a chef, Solomon Johnson Jr., is recalling the day last fall when Mr. Cipriano floored his staff by unloading several bushels of fresh Connecticut corn. Long accustomed to simply reheating the canned version, the kitchen workers were aghast. “We steamed it and put it out there,” Mr. Cipriano says. “The kids shucked it themselves and went crazy for it. We ran out halfway through the first shift.” Mr. Cipriano says he has had consistent support from school administrators, who enjoy school-catered wraps and snacks at meetings, and the district is building an early-childhood magnet school with a farm theme and hands-on greenhouses. This summer, Mr. Cipriano has another job as manager of the new Litchfield Hills Farm-Fresh Market, which opens at Center School in Litchfield on June 30. The Food Dude will be out there every Saturday, invoking the market mantra (“Be a vocal local, buy local food”), sampling new produce, grass-fed beef and organic dairy products — and developing more recipes. “And come September,” he says, “I can’t wait to feed it all to my kids.” More Articles in New York Region &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Panel Suggests Junk Food Ban In Schools to Help Fight Obesity Agriculture Mainstay Gets an Urban Face California's Newest State University Is Short of Students House Passes a $2.7 Trillion Spending Plan More Articles in New York Region &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France More than $7 Trades. It’s Called Value & We Value You. 50% off Times delivery. THE NEW YORK TIMES GUIDE TO ESSENTIAL KNOWLEDGE N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/us/15hawaii.html	Prestigious Private Schools Settle Rights Suit by a Non-Hawaiian - New York Times Prestigious Private Schools Settle Rights Suit by a Non-Hawaiian Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 15, 2007 The private Kamehameha Schools in announced yesterday that they had settled a civil rights lawsuit brought against them by a student denied admission because he did not possess Hawaiian ancestry. The settlement avoided the possibility of a decision by the United States Supreme Court on the status of Native Hawaiians. The terms of the settlement, between the schools and a student identified only as John Doe, were not disclosed. But it left in place an 8-to-7 decision of the federal appeals court in San Francisco that allows the schools to admit only students who can prove that at least one of their ancestors lived on the Hawaiian Islands in 1778, when the British explorer Capt. James Cook arrived. The Supreme Court had considered whether to hear the case four times but had not reached a decision by Friday, when the parties informed the court of the settlement. The case was dismissed the same day. The schools are the beneficiaries of the enormous legacy of a 19th-century Hawaiian princess, Bernice Pauahi Bishop, who intended them to raise the educational level of Native Hawaiians. Their endowment exceeds $6 billion. They have an enrollment of some 6,700 students, from preschool through 12th grade, with campuses on three islands and preschools throughout the state. Admission is a great prize, as older students pay about $3,000 in annual tuition for an education worth more than $20,000. The student in the suit dismissed Friday had initially sued to gain admission to the schools, but he has since graduated, making that aspect of his case moot. The settlement presumably includes a payment to him and his lawyers. In a letter released yesterday, the schools&#8217; trustees said the decision to settle was a difficult one. &#8220;We cannot ignore the treacherous landscape before us,&#8221; the trustees wrote. &#8220;It is becoming increasingly clear that this lawsuit is only one piece of a much broader risk to the rights of Native Hawaiians, as the indigenous people of this state, to manage and control our resources.&#8221; Eric Grant, a lawyer for the student, said in a e-mail message that he had no immediate comment on the settlement. The settlement does not preclude further suits challenging the admissions policy, but it could take years for another suit to reach the Supreme Court again, and there is, of course, no guarantee that the court would agree to hear it. In its decision in December, the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit ruled that students without Hawaiian ancestry could be denied admission to the schools based on their race without running afoul of a civil rights law. The majority cited what it said were unique factors in the history of Hawaii, the plight of Native Hawaiians and the schools&#8217; distinctively remedial mission. &#8220;The schools are a wholly private K-12 educational establishment, whose preferential admissions policy is meant to counteract the significant, current educational deficits of Native Hawaiian children in Hawaii,&#8221; Judge Susan P. Graber wrote for the majority. In a dissent joined at least in part by six other judges, Judge Jay S. Bybee said the schools&#8217; worthy mission nonetheless violated &#8220;the Supreme Court&#8217;s requirements for a valid affirmative action plan.&#8221; More Articles in National &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. More Articles in National &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France More than $7 Trades. It’s Called Value & We Value You. Find Advice & Resources Online THE NEW YORK TIMES GUIDE TO ESSENTIAL KNOWLEDGE N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/us/15scare.html?ex=1336881600&en=7e2f6af7f747216d&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	2 Suspended for School Prank That Scared Pupils in Tennessee - New York Times 2 Suspended for School Prank That Scared Pupils in Tennessee Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 15, 2007 MURFREESBORO, Tenn., May 14 — A teacher and an assistant principal were suspended Monday for a prank in which sixth graders on a sleepover trip were told that a gunman was prowling nearby and were ordered to hide in silence. School officials in this small city, about 35 miles south of Nashville, took the action against the teacher, Quentin Mastin, and the assistant principal, Don Bartch, because of the incident Thursday during a trip by a group of Scales Elementary School pupils to secluded Fall Creek Falls State Park, a school spokeswoman, Cheryl Harris, said. “It was a spontaneous prank that got out of hand,” Ms. Harris said. The leaders usually pull a prank on the students during the weeklong trip, typically a spine-chilling ghost story, and the 69 children had been told to expect one this year, she said. But on the trip’s last night, Mr. Mastin told the children that a park ranger had warned that there was a gunman roving the park, and that they should take cover. While the children hid under tables in a dormitory, a chaperone pulled a hood up over her head and rattled the door from the outside. Some children wept in fear in the dark, parents have said in news accounts. “At first I thought I was going to die,” a student, Shay Naylor, 11, told The Tennessean newspaper in Nashville. “A teacher told us, ‘We just got a call that there’s been a random shooting.’ I was freaked out. I thought it was serious.” Afterward, the adult leaders turned the lights on and admitted it was a prank, praising the students for following what are called “code red” emergency school procedures. Ms. Harris said the choice of prank was unfortunate, particularly given the recent shootings at University, in which 32 students and teachers were killed. “I don’t think this person, this lead teacher, was even associating what he was doing with that, unfortunately,” Ms. Harris said. Some parents, who gave their consent for the trip but were not told of the prank beforehand, were not amused to learn about it. More than 40 parents attended a meeting with the principal on Saturday, and some parents have reported that the incident terrified their children. Jessica Giles, an assistant professor of psychology at the Peabody College of Education at , said such an incident could create lasting anxiety, and lead students to doubt their teachers in a real emergency. More Articles in National &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. TRUE-LIFE TALES; Dance Fever P.E. Classes Turn to Video Game That Works Legs, Not Thumbs Bronx Students Learn Filmmaking, Tribeca Style THIS LAND; Planning a Path Through Life on the Walk to School More Articles in National &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Gonzales Pressed Ailing Ashcroft on Spy Plan, Aide Says Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France More than $7 Trades. It’s Called Value & We Value You. Find Advice & Resources Online N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/us/15hawaii.html?ex=1336881600&en=f4317081f5b4092f&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Prestigious Private Schools Settle Rights Suit by a Non-Hawaiian - New York Times Prestigious Private Schools Settle Rights Suit by a Non-Hawaiian Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 15, 2007 The private Kamehameha Schools in announced yesterday that they had settled a civil rights lawsuit brought against them by a student denied admission because he did not possess Hawaiian ancestry. The settlement avoided the possibility of a decision by the United States Supreme Court on the status of Native Hawaiians. The terms of the settlement, between the schools and a student identified only as John Doe, were not disclosed. But it left in place an 8-to-7 decision of the federal appeals court in San Francisco that allows the schools to admit only students who can prove that at least one of their ancestors lived on the Hawaiian Islands in 1778, when the British explorer Capt. James Cook arrived. The Supreme Court had considered whether to hear the case four times but had not reached a decision by Friday, when the parties informed the court of the settlement. The case was dismissed the same day. The schools are the beneficiaries of the enormous legacy of a 19th-century Hawaiian princess, Bernice Pauahi Bishop, who intended them to raise the educational level of Native Hawaiians. Their endowment exceeds $6 billion. They have an enrollment of some 6,700 students, from preschool through 12th grade, with campuses on three islands and preschools throughout the state. Admission is a great prize, as older students pay about $3,000 in annual tuition for an education worth more than $20,000. The student in the suit dismissed Friday had initially sued to gain admission to the schools, but he has since graduated, making that aspect of his case moot. The settlement presumably includes a payment to him and his lawyers. In a letter released yesterday, the schools&#8217; trustees said the decision to settle was a difficult one. &#8220;We cannot ignore the treacherous landscape before us,&#8221; the trustees wrote. &#8220;It is becoming increasingly clear that this lawsuit is only one piece of a much broader risk to the rights of Native Hawaiians, as the indigenous people of this state, to manage and control our resources.&#8221; Eric Grant, a lawyer for the student, said in a e-mail message that he had no immediate comment on the settlement. The settlement does not preclude further suits challenging the admissions policy, but it could take years for another suit to reach the Supreme Court again, and there is, of course, no guarantee that the court would agree to hear it. In its decision in December, the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit ruled that students without Hawaiian ancestry could be denied admission to the schools based on their race without running afoul of a civil rights law. The majority cited what it said were unique factors in the history of Hawaii, the plight of Native Hawaiians and the schools&#8217; distinctively remedial mission. &#8220;The schools are a wholly private K-12 educational establishment, whose preferential admissions policy is meant to counteract the significant, current educational deficits of Native Hawaiian children in Hawaii,&#8221; Judge Susan P. Graber wrote for the majority. In a dissent joined at least in part by six other judges, Judge Jay S. Bybee said the schools&#8217; worthy mission nonetheless violated &#8220;the Supreme Court&#8217;s requirements for a valid affirmative action plan.&#8221; More Articles in National &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. More Articles in National &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Gonzales Pressed Ailing Ashcroft on Spy Plan, Aide Says Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France More than $7 Trades. It’s Called Value & We Value You. Find Advice & Resources Online N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/nyregion/nyregionspecial2/13colct.html?ex=1336708800&en=a835f5718ebaa3f1&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Local Food 101, With a School as His Lab - New York Times Local Food 101, With a School as His Lab Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 13, 2007 Skip to next paragraph Long Island, Westchester, Connecticut and New Jersey Go to Complete Coverage » TALL, bald and of robust appetite, the chef Timothy Cipriano is casting an appreciative eye at the young free-range chickens clucking in their moveable, open-air run outside the Agriscience and Technology Center at Bloomfield High School. “By fall, I can give you three dozen eggs a week,” predicts Joseph Rodrigues, the agriscience teacher who oversees greenhouses, raised-bed gardens and a set of big, burbling aquaculture tanks. “Fantastic. We’ll do frittatas,” Mr. Cipriano murmurs. The two men are amiable and enthusiastic co-conspirators. Mr. Cipriano, the food service director for the Bloomfield school district, is also a committed activist for the Farm-to-School program, which advocates serving students fresh, locally grown and sustainable food. He is clearly delighted by Mr. Rodrigues’s next promise: “We’ll be raising tilapia. It’s a good, mild fish the kids like. I’m hoping to give you a couple of decent harvests.” Having cajoled a few students out of study hall, Mr. Rodrigues has set them to transplanting heirloom tomato seedlings in the greenhouse. He walks between potting benches reciting tomato varieties: “Moskovich. First Ladies. Juliets. The Great White ... .” The crops also include snap peas, leeks, broccoli rabe, carrots, herbs, lettuce, arugula, okra and squash. Crews of volunteer students will tend the beds over the summer, with early harvest going to a local food bank. Students also test recipes, from watermelon gazpacho to Mexican pizza, and Mr. Cipriano has gathered the favorites in a self-published compendium intended for the delectation of “Not Your Average Lunch Lady.” His most popular dish is Squapple Crisp, a toothsome bake of winter squash, apples, cinnamon and brown sugar topped with crushed cornflakes. Has he had some losers? “Kale with carrots,” he admits. “Hey, kids are kids. You can’t push it too far. And their tastes seem to change overnight.” His own children, ages 5, 3 and 2, are crazy about asparagus and anything spicy, he says, “at least for now.” At the beginning of the fall term, Mr. Cipriano, also known in these parts as the Local Food Dude, will feed some of the fresh bounty from the agriscience plots to his students, who already enjoy Connecticut-grown fare from local farms in the cafeteria. Classes in the culinary vocational program just up the hill will get baskets of produce to experiment with. At 35, Mr. Cipriano bears a physical and spiritual resemblance to that legendary evangelist for basic, homegrown American cuisine, James Beard. He says he left restaurants and corporate food service to enjoy more family time on the same schedule as his wife, who is a teacher. He was middle school chef at a private academy in Cheshire before he came here to head the kitchens last July. Though Mr. Cipriano has brought his “eat local” message to all the district’s schools, the cafeteria of the 700-student Bloomfield High is his main laboratory. Beneath posters of asking “Got Milk?” students are enjoying a “brunch for lunch” of scrambled eggs, French toast strips and a tasting of four locally harvested maple syrups. There is also an Asian stir-fry station with jasmine rice and a counter serving favorites of the area’s large West Indian population. Last growing season, Michael Buchanan, a local farmer and Jamaican immigrant, grew callaloo, a leafy vegetable also known as pepperpot, and students made short work of that taste of home. Mr. Rodrigues’s classes are also growing incendiary Scotch Bonnet peppers, a Caribbean staple, to keep dishes lively in the fall. Mr. Cipriano has noticed the added benefit of cultural commingling at the steam table as students try different cuisines. “Food is a great teaching tool,” he says. “It touches so many areas — agriculture, the environment, different cultures. It’s immediate, it’s fun and they almost forget it’s good for them, too.” In the busy kitchen, a chef, Solomon Johnson Jr., is recalling the day last fall when Mr. Cipriano floored his staff by unloading several bushels of fresh Connecticut corn. Long accustomed to simply reheating the canned version, the kitchen workers were aghast. “We steamed it and put it out there,” Mr. Cipriano says. “The kids shucked it themselves and went crazy for it. We ran out halfway through the first shift.” Mr. Cipriano says he has had consistent support from school administrators, who enjoy school-catered wraps and snacks at meetings, and the district is building an early-childhood magnet school with a farm theme and hands-on greenhouses. This summer, Mr. Cipriano has another job as manager of the new Litchfield Hills Farm-Fresh Market, which opens at Center School in Litchfield on June 30. The Food Dude will be out there every Saturday, invoking the market mantra (“Be a vocal local, buy local food”), sampling new produce, grass-fed beef and organic dairy products — and developing more recipes. “And come September,” he says, “I can’t wait to feed it all to my kids.” More Articles in New York Region &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Panel Suggests Junk Food Ban In Schools to Help Fight Obesity Agriculture Mainstay Gets an Urban Face California's Newest State University Is Short of Students House Passes a $2.7 Trillion Spending Plan More Articles in New York Region &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Gonzales Pressed Ailing Ashcroft on Spy Plan, Aide Says Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France More than $7 Trades. It’s Called Value & We Value You. 50% off Times delivery. THE NEW YORK TIMES GUIDE TO ESSENTIAL KNOWLEDGE N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/us/15scare.html	2 Suspended for School Prank That Scared Pupils in Tennessee - New York Times 2 Suspended for School Prank That Scared Pupils in Tennessee Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 15, 2007 MURFREESBORO, Tenn., May 14 — A teacher and an assistant principal were suspended Monday for a prank in which sixth graders on a sleepover trip were told that a gunman was prowling nearby and were ordered to hide in silence. School officials in this small city, about 35 miles south of Nashville, took the action against the teacher, Quentin Mastin, and the assistant principal, Don Bartch, because of the incident Thursday during a trip by a group of Scales Elementary School pupils to secluded Fall Creek Falls State Park, a school spokeswoman, Cheryl Harris, said. “It was a spontaneous prank that got out of hand,” Ms. Harris said. The leaders usually pull a prank on the students during the weeklong trip, typically a spine-chilling ghost story, and the 69 children had been told to expect one this year, she said. But on the trip’s last night, Mr. Mastin told the children that a park ranger had warned that there was a gunman roving the park, and that they should take cover. While the children hid under tables in a dormitory, a chaperone pulled a hood up over her head and rattled the door from the outside. Some children wept in fear in the dark, parents have said in news accounts. “At first I thought I was going to die,” a student, Shay Naylor, 11, told The Tennessean newspaper in Nashville. “A teacher told us, ‘We just got a call that there’s been a random shooting.’ I was freaked out. I thought it was serious.” Afterward, the adult leaders turned the lights on and admitted it was a prank, praising the students for following what are called “code red” emergency school procedures. Ms. Harris said the choice of prank was unfortunate, particularly given the recent shootings at University, in which 32 students and teachers were killed. “I don’t think this person, this lead teacher, was even associating what he was doing with that, unfortunately,” Ms. Harris said. Some parents, who gave their consent for the trip but were not told of the prank beforehand, were not amused to learn about it. More than 40 parents attended a meeting with the principal on Saturday, and some parents have reported that the incident terrified their children. Jessica Giles, an assistant professor of psychology at the Peabody College of Education at , said such an incident could create lasting anxiety, and lead students to doubt their teachers in a real emergency. More Articles in National &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. TRUE-LIFE TALES; Dance Fever P.E. Classes Turn to Video Game That Works Legs, Not Thumbs Bronx Students Learn Filmmaking, Tribeca Style THIS LAND; Planning a Path Through Life on the Walk to School More Articles in National &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Find Advice & Resources Online More than $7 Trades. It’s Called Value & We Value You. THE NEW YORK TIMES GUIDE TO ESSENTIAL KNOWLEDGE N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/pages/education/index.html?partner=rssnyt	Education News - All Headlines - New York Times In Study, College-Prep Classes Left Many Unready Only 26 percent of high school students who take the core courses are well prepared for college, the study says. U. of Texas Fires Officer Over Tie to Loan Company By JONATHAN D. GLATER The University of Texas has fired the director of financial aid at its Austin campus for improper conduct. Prestigious Private Schools Settle Rights Suit by a Non-Hawaiian A settlement avoided the possibility of a decision by the United States Supreme Court on the status of Native Hawaiians. 2 Suspended for School Prank That Scared Pupils in Tennessee Staff members were suspended on Monday over a prank in which sixth graders on a trip were told that a gunman was prowling nearby. Local Food 101, With a School as His Lab Timothy Cipriano, the “Local Food Dude,” is teaching Connecticut students to grow and prepare their meals. Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Briarcliff Middle School has emerged as a nationally recognized middle school that gets things right. Audio Slide Show: A Model Middle School Burglary Charge Is Costly for Rutgers Class President Christa Olandria will not be graduating with her classmates next week after being arrested for burglary along with another Rutgers senior. Visit by Bush Tests Beliefs and Hospitality of Students at a Catholic College The news that President Bush would give the commencement address at St. Vincent College was not universally welcomed. Utah: Voters Will Decide on Voucher Program Spellings Rejects Criticism on Student Loan Scandal Purdue Will Reinvestigate Its Professor Who Claimed Desktop Fusion House Passes Ban on Gifts From Student Lenders Harvard Task Force Calls for New Focus on Teaching and Not Just Research Parents and District Settle Dispute on Teacher’s Religious Remarks Arabic School Finds Temporary Home in Brooklyn Federal Student Loan Official Is Resigning On Education: English Language Learners as Pawns in the School System’s Overhaul Students Search for the Words to Go With Their Cultural Pride Whistle-Blower on Student Aid Is Vindicated Almost half of all undergraduates go to a community college, making the two-year experience as much the norm as not. Go to Special Section » Live From Washington, Opera for the College Crowd By DANIEL J. WAKIN The Washington National Opera launches a plan to bring opera into the schools. At Commencement, a Call for Religious Literacy For a long time, quite a few people assumed that a major point of higher education was to put religion behind you. A Model Middle School Winnie Hu reports on a nationally recognized model of a middle school that gets things right. Series: The Critical Years The achieving, ambitious and confident students of Newton North High School. Middle School: The Critical Years For Students, Teachers and Parents Bring today's Times into your classroom or home with daily lesson plans, news quizzes, thematic crosswords and more. Featured Resource: Class Matters Find the right camp or school for your child In the Education Marketplace: View all Camp Listings View all School Listings Post Your Ad Now! Browse College and University Topics California Institute of Technology City College of New York City University of New York Fashion Institute of Technology Georgia Institute of Technology John Jay College of Criminal Justice Manhattan School of Music Massachusetts Institute of Technology New Jersey Institute of Technology North Carolina State University Rutgers, The State University State University of New York State University of New York at Albany State University of New York at Purchase State University of New York at Stony Brook Texas A and M University United States Air Force Academy United States Naval Academy United States Military Academy University of North Carolina University of Notre Dame University of Rhode Island University of South Carolina University of Southern California Xavier University of Ohio MOST POPULAR - U.S. Gonzales Pressed Ailing Ashcroft on Spy Plan, Aide Says The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Rev. Jerry Falwell , Moral Majority Founder, Dies at 73 Bank&#8217;s Report Says Wolfowitz Violated Ethics U. of Texas Fires Officer Over Tie to Loan Company Bethel Journal: In Native Alaskan Villages, a Culture of Sorrow 2 Suspended for School Prank That Scared Pupils in Tennessee Oklahoma Chides Insurer in Medicare Marketing Case Guantánamo Detainees&#8217; Suit Challenges Fairness of Military&#8217;s Repeat Hearings Go to Complete List » Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq 6 Arrested in Plot to Attack Fort Dix College Loan Official Resigns U.S. Queries Filmmaker on Cuba Trip for Movie Bush Calls for Work for Higher Fuel Efficiency Harvard Task Force Calls for New Focus on Teaching and Not Just Research Agency Affirms Mandates for Driver's Licenses Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France THE NEW YORK TIMES GUIDE TO ESSENTIAL KNOWLEDGE More than $7 Trades. It’s Called Value & We Value You. Buy, sell or rent a home. Which gadget is getting all the buzz? Get the latest business news Photos, fine art, books and more. What’s new on Broadway? The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/pages/education/index.html	Education News - All Headlines - New York Times In Study, College-Prep Classes Left Many Unready Only 26 percent of high school students who take the core courses are well prepared for college, the study says. U. of Texas Fires Officer Over Tie to Loan Company By JONATHAN D. GLATER The University of Texas has fired the director of financial aid at its Austin campus for improper conduct. Prestigious Private Schools Settle Rights Suit by a Non-Hawaiian A settlement avoided the possibility of a decision by the United States Supreme Court on the status of Native Hawaiians. 2 Suspended for School Prank That Scared Pupils in Tennessee Staff members were suspended on Monday over a prank in which sixth graders on a trip were told that a gunman was prowling nearby. Local Food 101, With a School as His Lab Timothy Cipriano, the “Local Food Dude,” is teaching Connecticut students to grow and prepare their meals. Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Briarcliff Middle School has emerged as a nationally recognized middle school that gets things right. Audio Slide Show: A Model Middle School Burglary Charge Is Costly for Rutgers Class President Christa Olandria will not be graduating with her classmates next week after being arrested for burglary along with another Rutgers senior. Visit by Bush Tests Beliefs and Hospitality of Students at a Catholic College The news that President Bush would give the commencement address at St. Vincent College was not universally welcomed. Utah: Voters Will Decide on Voucher Program Spellings Rejects Criticism on Student Loan Scandal Purdue Will Reinvestigate Its Professor Who Claimed Desktop Fusion House Passes Ban on Gifts From Student Lenders Harvard Task Force Calls for New Focus on Teaching and Not Just Research Parents and District Settle Dispute on Teacher’s Religious Remarks Arabic School Finds Temporary Home in Brooklyn Federal Student Loan Official Is Resigning On Education: English Language Learners as Pawns in the School System’s Overhaul Students Search for the Words to Go With Their Cultural Pride Whistle-Blower on Student Aid Is Vindicated Almost half of all undergraduates go to a community college, making the two-year experience as much the norm as not. Go to Special Section » Live From Washington, Opera for the College Crowd By DANIEL J. WAKIN The Washington National Opera launches a plan to bring opera into the schools. At Commencement, a Call for Religious Literacy For a long time, quite a few people assumed that a major point of higher education was to put religion behind you. A Model Middle School Winnie Hu reports on a nationally recognized model of a middle school that gets things right. Series: The Critical Years The achieving, ambitious and confident students of Newton North High School. Middle School: The Critical Years For Students, Teachers and Parents Bring today's Times into your classroom or home with daily lesson plans, news quizzes, thematic crosswords and more. Featured Resource: Class Matters Find the right camp or school for your child In the Education Marketplace: View all Camp Listings View all School Listings Post Your Ad Now! Browse College and University Topics California Institute of Technology City College of New York City University of New York Fashion Institute of Technology Georgia Institute of Technology John Jay College of Criminal Justice Manhattan School of Music Massachusetts Institute of Technology New Jersey Institute of Technology North Carolina State University Rutgers, The State University State University of New York State University of New York at Albany State University of New York at Purchase State University of New York at Stony Brook Texas A and M University United States Air Force Academy United States Naval Academy United States Military Academy University of North Carolina University of Notre Dame University of Rhode Island University of South Carolina University of Southern California Xavier University of Ohio MOST POPULAR - U.S. Gonzales Pressed Ailing Ashcroft on Spy Plan, Aide Says The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Rev. Jerry Falwell , Moral Majority Founder, Dies at 73 Bank&#8217;s Report Says Wolfowitz Violated Ethics U. of Texas Fires Officer Over Tie to Loan Company Bethel Journal: In Native Alaskan Villages, a Culture of Sorrow 2 Suspended for School Prank That Scared Pupils in Tennessee Oklahoma Chides Insurer in Medicare Marketing Case Guantánamo Detainees&#8217; Suit Challenges Fairness of Military&#8217;s Repeat Hearings Go to Complete List » Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq 6 Arrested in Plot to Attack Fort Dix College Loan Official Resigns U.S. Queries Filmmaker on Cuba Trip for Movie Bush Calls for Work for Higher Fuel Efficiency Harvard Task Force Calls for New Focus on Teaching and Not Just Research Agency Affirms Mandates for Driver's Licenses Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France THE NEW YORK TIMES GUIDE TO ESSENTIAL KNOWLEDGE More than $7 Trades. It’s Called Value & We Value You. Post a job online today! Which gadget is getting all the buzz? Photos, fine art, books and more. Start your 30-day free trial of Times Reader today. Browse movie reviews from 1913. Looking to buy a new car? The New York Times Company
