http://events.nytimes.com/2007/05/09/dining/reviews/09rest.html?ex=1336363200&en=715755167f705467&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	The New York Times &#62; Craftsteak Restaurant Review &#62; New York City Restaurant Reviews RESTAURANT REVIEW | CRAFTSTEAK A Chef With Swagger Can Nurture, Too Evan Sung for The New York Times JUST HAD A LITTLE WORK DONE At Craftsteak, Tom Colicchio has made changes to both the staff and the steaks. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 9, 2007 HE’S a showboat, that’s for sure. You don’t sign up for three seasons of the reality TV show “Top Chef” unless you relish the glow of the spotlight. And on some points he’s dogmatic. You don’t insist on roasting your steaks when everybody else is grilling or broiling theirs unless you’re convinced you’ve found the one true path. Skip to next paragraph Evan Sung for The New York Times But never let it be said that the chef Tom Colicchio is complacent. He’ll take a successful formula and tinker with it; he’ll take an unsuccessful formula and do much more than tinker. That restlessness is evident at Craftsteak and Craftbar, though these two Craft descendants haven’t benefited equally from it. Let’s start with the younger — and luckier — of the two. Just a year old, Craftsteak has undergone so many targeted and consequential changes that I feel compelled to update my initial review, which awarded it one star. It’s now much better. More important, it’s proof that a chef can disperse his energies across various projects, as Mr. Colicchio has, and still attend sufficiently to one of his neediest cases. He just has to be alert to problems, willing to acknowledge them and ready to take action. At Craftsteak Mr. Colicchio changed the chef de cuisine, putting Shane McBride in Chris Albrecht’s place. He changed meat suppliers. And he changed the way steaks were being cooked. In the beginning, the restaurant used a griddle to try to sear steaks, then put them in copper pans in the oven. But the sear wasn’t taking: The steaks weren’t any crisper on the outside than on the inside. They weren’t especially juicy, either. The raison d’être of the restaurant, they were actually its most glaring flaw. Craftsteak continues to roast them — Mr. Colicchio believes it prevents dryness — but before they go into the oven they spend time on top of it in their copper pans, on high heat, which is accomplishing what the griddle didn’t. The steaks now have a sear. I’d still prefer an actual char, but I can’t quibble with the degree of flavor coaxed from a strip steak of grass-fed Montana beef. The different nuances of grass-fed versus corn-fed beef — Craftsteak’s conceit remains the presentation of both kinds, along with wagyu beef and beef aged a little or a lot — came through much more clearly during recent visits than before. The strip had a pointed, appealing gaminess distinct from the round, rich taste of a porterhouse of corn-fed Nebraska beef that I tried on the same night. And all the meat is more tender and moist at the core. The improvement in the steaks has made it easier to appreciate the restaurant’s other virtues: the spaciousness and comfort of its handsome, dramatically scaled dining room; the unassailable quality of its raw bar selections; its gigantic, crunchy onion rings, some of the best in the city; its fried bone marrow appetizer, a decadence-squared dream. Drawbacks remain. If a strip steak that had supposedly been dry-aged for 56 days was any indication, the aging process at Craftsteak isn’t yielding ideally tangy results. The menu is sprawling to the point of self-parody: the side dishes alone number more than 40. It encourages over-ordering and sets up the possibility of a stratospheric bill. The cheapest steaks are $32, and that gets you only six ounces of filet. Craftbar, which opened in early 2002, has moved even further from its origins than Craftsteak, having traded its nest alongside Craft for greater independence a few blocks away. The relocation in mid-2005 gave Craftbar more room: about 175 seats, including those in a private dining room, versus just 70 or so before. But it took away some of the restaurant’s soul. The stark space it now inhabits has a grim industrial feel that works against the intended coziness of the predominantly Mediterranean cuisine: fried oysters with a celery root rémoulade; sweetbreads in a lemon and tuna sauce; bruschetta with fontina and hon shimeji mushrooms; bucatini with pancetta and an oozing egg; hanger steak with buttery puréed potatoes. And the restaurant’s greater chaos seems to be undercutting the service, which has a lurching quality, with bursts of attentiveness segueing into stretches of neglect. While the lower prices of a restaurant like Craftbar presage less coddling, the duck confit here would have to be $1.90 instead of $19 to justify the frowning grumpiness of the waiter who deigned to attend to us one night. Next Article in Dining & Wine (5 of 17) &#x00bb; Report a Problem Post (3.13 stars, 8 votes) Great Setting; Disappointing Food The room is lovely; the lounge area where we ate was relaxed and comfortably informal. If only the food were as comforting. We each ordered the 56 day aged NY strip. Though the steaks were cooked to order, they both came out close to room temperature. I tried to eat mine, my partner sent his back. His returned, again at close to room temperature. The manager insisted the kitchen make it right, so we waited for new steaks. The wait was so long the waiter offered us dessert menu's. When the steaks arrived, they were now hot but generally lacking in flavor. Brussel sprouts with bacon were great; a potato boulanger tasty enough but a bit bland. Wagyu tartare ($22) had too much liquid but one could tell the beef underneath was good. They really need to fix the food problems; room is great and the staff were really trying it appeared. I really debated between satisfactory or poor but gave them an upgrade to 'satisfactory' because of the room. Read All 2 Reader Reviews Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. FOOD STUFF; OFF THE MENU 3 Chefs Depart, 2 With Full Plates FOOD STUFF; OFF THE MENU FOOD STUFF; OFF THE MENU The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Find home & garden professionals in your area today In Home & Garden: View all Home & Garden Classifieds Post Your Ad Now! Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/pages/dining/index.html?partner=rssnyt	Dining & Wine - New York Times A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Tony Cenicola/The New York Times See a key to the items in this photograph Gorgeous, name-brand pots, pans and gadgets sure are nice, but are they necessary? No, and here’s how a good cook can outfit an entire kitchen for under $300. Video: Kitchen Starter Kit Less Green at the Farmers’ Market New efforts to encourage food-aid recipients to eat more locally grown fruits and vegetables could end up shutting out the small farmers who are the backbone of these markets. In Los Angeles, the Accidental Pizza Maker As Nancy Silverton prepared to open her restaurant Mozza, a pizzeria annex was almost an afterthought. Now the parlor is one of the hottest reservations in Los Angeles A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills By JOHN T. EDGE They are either the worst thing to happen to pickles or a particularly brave new taste sensation, but Kool-Aid dills are now popular in the Mississippi Delta. The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? Is it safe to eat a piece of food that fell to the floor but was picked up in less that five seconds? Scientists recently put the five-second rule through some microbiology paces. A Chef With Swagger Can Nurture, Too Frank Bruni dines at Craftbar, the easygoing companion of Tom Colicchio’s Craft, and revisits Craftsteak, which has changed its approach to preparing beef. Where the Homework Is a Pleasure In this update on his April article about a do-it-yourself method of learning about wine, Eric Asimov reports on what he has found while making his way through two mixed cases. Hot, Hotter, Hottest: Fire From France To make a zippy, sinus-clearing dressing for leeks, find the brightest yellow Dijon mustard you can find and then add a lot of it. Prim but Satisfying, Venerable Sweets From Milan Chocolates for Mother’s Day, drop-in help for those without cooks and delicate petals of dried olive tapenade with a multitude of potential uses. New York Makes a Strong Showing at the James Beard Awards The move of the awards this year to Lincoln Center added glamour to a major culinary event and the “best chef New York City” award was given to David Waltuck of Chanterelle. Dining Briefs: Spotlight Live and Pio Pio Salon A look at two new restaurants: Spotlight Live, which channels “American Idol,” and Pio Pio Salon, a Peruvian spot on Amsterdam Avenue. Waiters Claim Harassment at Mr. Chow Three former employees of Michael Chow’s elegant Chinese restaurants have filed a lawsuit filled with bizarre allegations. ‘Top Chef’ Dreams Crushed by Student Loan Debt For would-be top chefs, there are few jobs that pay enough for them to retire their student loans. To Study Wine, Buy and Drink The best place to learn about wine, says Eric Asimov, is at home and this do-it-yourself method works for anyone who loves wine, including beginners. The Heel Is Rising Apulia, at the bottom of the Italian boot, has farmhouses turned into luxury hotels, compelling Baroque churches and a cuisine worth savoring. Just don't call it the next Tuscany. Audio Slide Show: Return to Apulia Food: The Way We Eat Looking at ‘‘The Silver Palate Cookbook’’ on its silver anniversary. 'The Joy of Drinking' Reviewed by ROBERT R. HARRIS A history of our long love affair with drinking. Hawking Hot Dogs: Some Are All-Stars and Then There’s ... By HARRY HURT III The New York Mets were warming up to play and I was warming up to sell a food item as famously American as baseball and apple pie. Video: Hawking Hot Dogs Letters to the Editor Living | Spring 2007 It's all about extreme grilling, good-humored ice cream and molecular mixology. Get the recipe for all the fixings of a delicious summer in the latest installment of T: Style. Go to T: Style Magazine » In his latest post, Frank Bruni discusses the restaurant Mozza in Los Angeles. Go to Blog » , Eric Asimov ponders terroir. Go to Blog » A slew of new restaurants are opening this week, including China de Puebla, Perilla, Saucy and Nelson Blue. Recipe: Butterscotch Budino With Caramel Sauce Recipe: Extra-Sharp Leeks Vinaigrette Times food columnist Mark Bittman, a k a The Minimalist, outfits a kitchen with the basics for less than $300. Frank Bruni talks about the rustic region of Apulia on the heel of Italy's boot. From Deli to Gourmet Enterprise The founders of Zingerman's Delicatessen in Ann Arbor, Mich., have expanded through a carefully thought out 12-year plan to build a mini food empire. Connecticut: White Peach Restaurant Long Island: Sea Levels Long Island Vines: Clovis Point and Medolla Vineyards Frank Bruni discusses restaurants and dining trends in New York City. Eric Asimov, chief wine critic, on recent tastings and trends. MOST POPULAR - STYLE The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? Faster Fashion, Cheaper Chic In the Garden: It Takes a Hammer to Grow This Salad A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Critic’s Notebook: In Los Angeles, the Accidental Pizza Maker Fitness: The Yoga Therapist Will See You Now Tribute: The Woman No Hat Could Tame Fitness: A Healthy Mix of Rest and Motion Go to Complete List » You Do the Math Go to Complete List » Find home & garden professionals in your area today In Home & Garden: View all Home & Garden Classifieds Post Your Ad Now! The Battery, Lower Manhattan, New York, 1945 Get what’s cooking at your door. Get The Times delivered at 50% off. Post a job online today! Buy, sell or rent a home. Get the latest business news Tell us your nursing story. Inspiration & lessons. Start your 30-day free trial of Times Reader today. See what’s cooking out or at home for $3.15 a week. The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/09/dining/09mini.html	A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks - New York Times A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Tony Cenicola/The New York Times See a key to the items in this photograph Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 9, 2007 THE question I’m asked more often than any other is, “What kitchen equipment should I buy?” Skip to next paragraph Tony Cenicola/The New York Times 10-inch nonstick frying pan, $12.95. Like cookbooks, kitchen equipment is a talisman; people believe that buying the right kind will make them good cooks. Yet some of the best cooks I’ve known worked with a battered batterie de cuisine: dented pots and pans scarred beyond recognition, an old steak knife turned into an all-purpose tool, a pot lid held just so to strain pasta when the colander was missing, a food processor with a busted switch. They didn’t complain and they didn’t apologize; they just cooked. But famous TV chefs use gorgeous name-brand equipment, you might say. And you’d be right. But a.) they get much of that stuff free, the manufacturers hoping that placing it in the hands of a well-known chef will make you think it’s essential; b.) they want their equipment to be pretty, so you’ll think they’re important; and c.) see above: a costly knife is not a talisman and you are not a TV chef. Finally (and this is crucial), the best chefs may use the best-looking equipment when they are in public view, but when it is time to buy equipment for the people who actually prepare those $200 restaurant meals, they go to a restaurant supply house to shop for the everyday cookware I recommend to people all the time. In fact, I contend that with a bit of savvy, patience and a willingness to forgo steel-handle knives, copper pots and other extravagant items, $200 can equip a basic kitchen that will be adequate for just about any task, and $300 can equip one quite well. To prove my point I put together a list of everything needed for almost any cooking task. I bought most of the equipment at Bowery Restaurant Supply, 183 Bowery Street (Delancey Street), where the bill came to just about $200. Throw in a few items the store didn’t have and a few extras, and the total would be about $300. (New York happens to have scores of restaurant supply shops, but every metropolitan area has at least one.) I started with an eight-inch, plastic-handle stainless alloy chef’s knife for $10. This is probably the most essential tool in the kitchen. People not only obsess about knives (and write entire articles about them), but you can easily spend over $100 on just one. Yet go into any restaurant kitchen and you will see most of the cooks using this same plastic-handle Dexter-Russell tool. (Go to the wrong store and you’ll spend $20 or even $30 on the same knife.) I found an instant-read thermometer, a necessity for beginning cooks and obsessive-compulsives, for $5. Three stainless steel bowls — not gorgeous and maybe a little thin — set me back about $5. You are reading that right. Sturdy tongs, an underappreciated tool: $3.50 (don’t buy them too long, make sure the spring is nice and tight, and don’t shop for them at a “culinary” store, where they’ll cost four times as much). For less than $6 I picked up a sturdy sheet pan. It’s not an ideal cookie sheet but it’s useful for roasting and baking (not a bad tray, either, and one of the more common items in restaurant kitchens). A plastic cutting board was about the same price. For aesthetic purposes I’d rather have wood, but plastic can go into the dishwasher. At $3, a paring knife was so cheap I could replace it every year or two. I splurged on a Japanese mandoline for $25. (It’s not indispensable, but since my knife skills are pathetic, I use mine whenever I want thin, even slices or a real julienne.) You, or the college graduate you are thinking of, might own some of the things I bought: a $4 can opener; a vegetable peeler (I like the U-shaped type, which cost me $3); a colander ($7, and I probably could’ve gotten one cheaper). You are thinking to yourself: “Humph. He’s ignoring pots and pans, the most expensive items of all.” Au contraire, my friend; I bought five, and I could live with four (though I’d rather have six): a small, medium and large cast-aluminum saucepan (total: about $30); a medium nonstick cast aluminum pan (10-inch; $13); and a large steep-sided, heavier duty steel pan (14-inch; $25). I bought a single lid ($5; I often use plates or whatever’s handy for lids because I can never find the right one anyway). Next Article in Dining & Wine (1 of 17) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. HABITATS/Brooklyn Heights; 4-Star Dinners Conjured From A 1-Star Kitchen THE MEDIA EQUATION; Rachael Ray Gives the Gift Of Time Top of the Food Chain Next Article in Dining & Wine (1 of 17) &#x00bb; A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Find home & garden professionals in your area today In Home & Garden: View all Home & Garden Classifieds Post Your Ad Now! Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/09/dining/09mozz.html	In Los Angeles, the Accidental Pizza Maker - New York Times In Los Angeles, the Accidental Pizza Maker Stephanie Diani for The New York Times From the counter at Pizzeria Mozza in Los Angeles, diners can watch pizzas being prepared and baked in a wood-burning oven. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 9, 2007 Skip to next paragraph Recipe: Butterscotch Budino With Caramel Sauce Stephanie Diani for The New York Times Nancy Silverton at Pizzeria Mozza. A FUNNY thing happened on Nancy Silverton’s way to opening a new Italian restaurant here. Actually, a doughy, cheesy, wonderful thing happened, and neither she nor Los Angeles may ever be quite the same. Looking for the right spot for her restaurant, she homed in on one that happened to have a pizzeria attached to it. And it hit her: pizzas. She should do pizzas herself. She should do them in this annex, next to the rest of her operation, because the space was already set up that way, with the right kind of wood-burning oven right where an oven should be. Her restaurant, Osteria Mozza, would be the star. Its scrappy sibling, Pizzeria Mozza, would lend amusing support. That was the idea. This is the reality: Osteria Mozza, after extensive construction and repeated delays, still isn’t open. July, Ms. Silverton promises, but does it matter? Pizzeria Mozza began serving lunch and dinner in November and became so madly popular and widely revered that food lovers in Los Angeles and elsewhere stopped asking when, oh when, Ms. Silverton’s proper restaurant would be ready. Instead they asked how, oh how, they could land a table at her pizza joint. It accepts reservations up to a month in advance and pretty much books up a month in advance. Some entertainment-industry bigwigs have their secretaries set up a reservation a week, while others sidestep the craziness and crowds by doing takeout. When I spoke to Ms. Silverton on the phone recently, she said that she had made a to-go order for early that day and one for later on. She sounded exhausted and, well, baffled. “It’s a small, little, loud restaurant, right?” she said, adding that she “never, ever, ever, ever” expected this kind of reaction. The instant and outsize swoon over Mozza owes something to the reputation she made for herself at La Brea Bakery and the restaurant Campanile. It’s fueled by the long-distance involvement of the New York chef Mario Batali and his frequent collaborator, Joseph Bastianich, who are partners in Mozza, their first West Coast venture. And it reflects the spread of a certain kind of haute pizza culture across the country. In growing numbers, serious chefs and bakers are making — and the food cognoscenti are devouring — exemplary pies inspired at least loosely by the thin-crust pizza of Naples. Usually measuring 10 to 12 inches in diameter, they’re sculptured from dough that’s been lovingly tended by the pizzaioli themselves and cooked at blazingly high temperatures in wood-burning ovens of Italian design. You can find them in Manhattan at Una Pizza Napoletana, in Chicago at Spacca Napoli and in Phoenix at Pizzeria Bianco, whose chef and owner, Chris Bianco, is the unofficial godfather of this movement. And you can find them in Los Angeles at Mozza, where they were greeted with so much excitement that The Los Angeles Times didn’t wait for the rest of the restaurant to weigh in with a review. The newspaper awarded the pizzeria a head-turning three out of four stars under the headline: “Hot spot? Mozza is on fire.” To get into Mozza on a recent night, I booked about three weeks ahead and had to accept a 5 p.m. dinner reservation: anything at a saner hour was long gone. Mozza is open daily from noon to midnight, and when I arrived it was two-thirds full. By 5:45, there wasn’t an empty seat. By 6:30, the area just inside the door was jammed with people waiting for one of 40 reserved spots at tables or one of 20 counter perches — half at a wine bar, half facing the pizza oven — that are distributed on a first-come-first-served basis. As my friends and I worked our way through several rounds of antipasti, I noticed a woman with tiger-stripe pants and a beehive hairdo just a few tables away. Then I noticed her pizza, which managed to make an even more compelling visual statement, its crust a veritable topography of canyons and buttes. John Ford could have shot a miniature Western on one of Ms. Silverton’s pies. The woman and I swapped smiles, a familiar wordless exchange between two food adventurers thrilled to be exploring a coveted frontier. She held my gaze as she lifted a slice of pizza and took a bite. Then, after a slow-motion, self-consciously dramatic chew or two, she nodded and flashed me an “O.K.” sign. The pizza passed muster. I’ll say. Ms. Silverton, who started her career as a pastry chef and is an accomplished baker, makes crusts with extraordinary character: softly chewy in spots, crisply charred in others, ever so faintly sweet, even more faintly sour. There’s some rye flour in her dough and some malt, and she lets it sit for 36 hours before she uses it. Next Article in Dining & Wine (2 of 17) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Square Feet; In Los Angeles, a Gehry-Designed Awakening IN TRANSIT; Michelin Guides to Rate More American Cities NEXT STOP: CULVER CITY, CALIF.; Art and Food Turn a Nowhere Into a Somewhere SURFACING | Los Angeles; Where Stars Are in the Kitchen Next Article in Dining & Wine (2 of 17) &#x00bb; A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Find home & garden professionals in your area today In Home & Garden: View all Home & Garden Classifieds Post Your Ad Now! Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://events.nytimes.com/2007/05/09/dining/reviews/09rest.html	The New York Times &#62; Craftsteak Restaurant Review &#62; New York City Restaurant Reviews RESTAURANT REVIEW | CRAFTSTEAK A Chef With Swagger Can Nurture, Too Evan Sung for The New York Times JUST HAD A LITTLE WORK DONE At Craftsteak, Tom Colicchio has made changes to both the staff and the steaks. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 9, 2007 HE’S a showboat, that’s for sure. You don’t sign up for three seasons of the reality TV show “Top Chef” unless you relish the glow of the spotlight. And on some points he’s dogmatic. You don’t insist on roasting your steaks when everybody else is grilling or broiling theirs unless you’re convinced you’ve found the one true path. Skip to next paragraph Evan Sung for The New York Times But never let it be said that the chef Tom Colicchio is complacent. He’ll take a successful formula and tinker with it; he’ll take an unsuccessful formula and do much more than tinker. That restlessness is evident at Craftsteak and Craftbar, though these two Craft descendants haven’t benefited equally from it. Let’s start with the younger — and luckier — of the two. Just a year old, Craftsteak has undergone so many targeted and consequential changes that I feel compelled to update my initial review, which awarded it one star. It’s now much better. More important, it’s proof that a chef can disperse his energies across various projects, as Mr. Colicchio has, and still attend sufficiently to one of his neediest cases. He just has to be alert to problems, willing to acknowledge them and ready to take action. At Craftsteak Mr. Colicchio changed the chef de cuisine, putting Shane McBride in Chris Albrecht’s place. He changed meat suppliers. And he changed the way steaks were being cooked. In the beginning, the restaurant used a griddle to try to sear steaks, then put them in copper pans in the oven. But the sear wasn’t taking: The steaks weren’t any crisper on the outside than on the inside. They weren’t especially juicy, either. The raison d’être of the restaurant, they were actually its most glaring flaw. Craftsteak continues to roast them — Mr. Colicchio believes it prevents dryness — but before they go into the oven they spend time on top of it in their copper pans, on high heat, which is accomplishing what the griddle didn’t. The steaks now have a sear. I’d still prefer an actual char, but I can’t quibble with the degree of flavor coaxed from a strip steak of grass-fed Montana beef. The different nuances of grass-fed versus corn-fed beef — Craftsteak’s conceit remains the presentation of both kinds, along with wagyu beef and beef aged a little or a lot — came through much more clearly during recent visits than before. The strip had a pointed, appealing gaminess distinct from the round, rich taste of a porterhouse of corn-fed Nebraska beef that I tried on the same night. And all the meat is more tender and moist at the core. The improvement in the steaks has made it easier to appreciate the restaurant’s other virtues: the spaciousness and comfort of its handsome, dramatically scaled dining room; the unassailable quality of its raw bar selections; its gigantic, crunchy onion rings, some of the best in the city; its fried bone marrow appetizer, a decadence-squared dream. Drawbacks remain. If a strip steak that had supposedly been dry-aged for 56 days was any indication, the aging process at Craftsteak isn’t yielding ideally tangy results. The menu is sprawling to the point of self-parody: the side dishes alone number more than 40. It encourages over-ordering and sets up the possibility of a stratospheric bill. The cheapest steaks are $32, and that gets you only six ounces of filet. Craftbar, which opened in early 2002, has moved even further from its origins than Craftsteak, having traded its nest alongside Craft for greater independence a few blocks away. The relocation in mid-2005 gave Craftbar more room: about 175 seats, including those in a private dining room, versus just 70 or so before. But it took away some of the restaurant’s soul. The stark space it now inhabits has a grim industrial feel that works against the intended coziness of the predominantly Mediterranean cuisine: fried oysters with a celery root rémoulade; sweetbreads in a lemon and tuna sauce; bruschetta with fontina and hon shimeji mushrooms; bucatini with pancetta and an oozing egg; hanger steak with buttery puréed potatoes. And the restaurant’s greater chaos seems to be undercutting the service, which has a lurching quality, with bursts of attentiveness segueing into stretches of neglect. While the lower prices of a restaurant like Craftbar presage less coddling, the duck confit here would have to be $1.90 instead of $19 to justify the frowning grumpiness of the waiter who deigned to attend to us one night. Next Article in Dining & Wine (5 of 17) &#x00bb; Report a Problem Post (3.13 stars, 8 votes) Great Setting; Disappointing Food The room is lovely; the lounge area where we ate was relaxed and comfortably informal. If only the food were as comforting. We each ordered the 56 day aged NY strip. Though the steaks were cooked to order, they both came out close to room temperature. I tried to eat mine, my partner sent his back. His returned, again at close to room temperature. The manager insisted the kitchen make it right, so we waited for new steaks. The wait was so long the waiter offered us dessert menu's. When the steaks arrived, they were now hot but generally lacking in flavor. Brussel sprouts with bacon were great; a potato boulanger tasty enough but a bit bland. Wagyu tartare ($22) had too much liquid but one could tell the beef underneath was good. They really need to fix the food problems; room is great and the staff were really trying it appeared. I really debated between satisfactory or poor but gave them an upgrade to 'satisfactory' because of the room. Read All 2 Reader Reviews Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. FOOD STUFF; OFF THE MENU 3 Chefs Depart, 2 With Full Plates FOOD STUFF; OFF THE MENU FOOD STUFF; OFF THE MENU The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Find home & garden professionals in your area today In Home & Garden: View all Home & Garden Classifieds Post Your Ad Now! Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/09/dining/09mozz.html?ex=1336363200&en=84c7f54cf82294da&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	In Los Angeles, the Accidental Pizza Maker - New York Times In Los Angeles, the Accidental Pizza Maker Stephanie Diani for The New York Times From the counter at Pizzeria Mozza in Los Angeles, diners can watch pizzas being prepared and baked in a wood-burning oven. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 9, 2007 Skip to next paragraph Recipe: Butterscotch Budino With Caramel Sauce Stephanie Diani for The New York Times Nancy Silverton at Pizzeria Mozza. A FUNNY thing happened on Nancy Silverton’s way to opening a new Italian restaurant here. Actually, a doughy, cheesy, wonderful thing happened, and neither she nor Los Angeles may ever be quite the same. Looking for the right spot for her restaurant, she homed in on one that happened to have a pizzeria attached to it. And it hit her: pizzas. She should do pizzas herself. She should do them in this annex, next to the rest of her operation, because the space was already set up that way, with the right kind of wood-burning oven right where an oven should be. Her restaurant, Osteria Mozza, would be the star. Its scrappy sibling, Pizzeria Mozza, would lend amusing support. That was the idea. This is the reality: Osteria Mozza, after extensive construction and repeated delays, still isn’t open. July, Ms. Silverton promises, but does it matter? Pizzeria Mozza began serving lunch and dinner in November and became so madly popular and widely revered that food lovers in Los Angeles and elsewhere stopped asking when, oh when, Ms. Silverton’s proper restaurant would be ready. Instead they asked how, oh how, they could land a table at her pizza joint. It accepts reservations up to a month in advance and pretty much books up a month in advance. Some entertainment-industry bigwigs have their secretaries set up a reservation a week, while others sidestep the craziness and crowds by doing takeout. When I spoke to Ms. Silverton on the phone recently, she said that she had made a to-go order for early that day and one for later on. She sounded exhausted and, well, baffled. “It’s a small, little, loud restaurant, right?” she said, adding that she “never, ever, ever, ever” expected this kind of reaction. The instant and outsize swoon over Mozza owes something to the reputation she made for herself at La Brea Bakery and the restaurant Campanile. It’s fueled by the long-distance involvement of the New York chef Mario Batali and his frequent collaborator, Joseph Bastianich, who are partners in Mozza, their first West Coast venture. And it reflects the spread of a certain kind of haute pizza culture across the country. In growing numbers, serious chefs and bakers are making — and the food cognoscenti are devouring — exemplary pies inspired at least loosely by the thin-crust pizza of Naples. Usually measuring 10 to 12 inches in diameter, they’re sculptured from dough that’s been lovingly tended by the pizzaioli themselves and cooked at blazingly high temperatures in wood-burning ovens of Italian design. You can find them in Manhattan at Una Pizza Napoletana, in Chicago at Spacca Napoli and in Phoenix at Pizzeria Bianco, whose chef and owner, Chris Bianco, is the unofficial godfather of this movement. And you can find them in Los Angeles at Mozza, where they were greeted with so much excitement that The Los Angeles Times didn’t wait for the rest of the restaurant to weigh in with a review. The newspaper awarded the pizzeria a head-turning three out of four stars under the headline: “Hot spot? Mozza is on fire.” To get into Mozza on a recent night, I booked about three weeks ahead and had to accept a 5 p.m. dinner reservation: anything at a saner hour was long gone. Mozza is open daily from noon to midnight, and when I arrived it was two-thirds full. By 5:45, there wasn’t an empty seat. By 6:30, the area just inside the door was jammed with people waiting for one of 40 reserved spots at tables or one of 20 counter perches — half at a wine bar, half facing the pizza oven — that are distributed on a first-come-first-served basis. As my friends and I worked our way through several rounds of antipasti, I noticed a woman with tiger-stripe pants and a beehive hairdo just a few tables away. Then I noticed her pizza, which managed to make an even more compelling visual statement, its crust a veritable topography of canyons and buttes. John Ford could have shot a miniature Western on one of Ms. Silverton’s pies. The woman and I swapped smiles, a familiar wordless exchange between two food adventurers thrilled to be exploring a coveted frontier. She held my gaze as she lifted a slice of pizza and took a bite. Then, after a slow-motion, self-consciously dramatic chew or two, she nodded and flashed me an “O.K.” sign. The pizza passed muster. I’ll say. Ms. Silverton, who started her career as a pastry chef and is an accomplished baker, makes crusts with extraordinary character: softly chewy in spots, crisply charred in others, ever so faintly sweet, even more faintly sour. There’s some rye flour in her dough and some malt, and she lets it sit for 36 hours before she uses it. Next Article in Dining & Wine (2 of 17) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Square Feet; In Los Angeles, a Gehry-Designed Awakening IN TRANSIT; Michelin Guides to Rate More American Cities NEXT STOP: CULVER CITY, CALIF.; Art and Food Turn a Nowhere Into a Somewhere SURFACING | Los Angeles; Where Stars Are in the Kitchen Next Article in Dining & Wine (2 of 17) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Find home & garden professionals in your area today In Home & Garden: View all Home & Garden Classifieds Post Your Ad Now! Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/pages/dining/index.html	Dining & Wine - New York Times A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Tony Cenicola/The New York Times See a key to the items in this photograph Gorgeous, name-brand pots, pans and gadgets sure are nice, but are they necessary? No, and here’s how a good cook can outfit an entire kitchen for under $300. Video: Kitchen Starter Kit Less Green at the Farmers’ Market New efforts to encourage food-aid recipients to eat more locally grown fruits and vegetables could end up shutting out the small farmers who are the backbone of these markets. In Los Angeles, the Accidental Pizza Maker As Nancy Silverton prepared to open her restaurant Mozza, a pizzeria annex was almost an afterthought. Now the parlor is one of the hottest reservations in Los Angeles A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills By JOHN T. EDGE They are either the worst thing to happen to pickles or a particularly brave new taste sensation, but Kool-Aid dills are now popular in the Mississippi Delta. The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? Is it safe to eat a piece of food that fell to the floor but was picked up in less that five seconds? Scientists recently put the five-second rule through some microbiology paces. A Chef With Swagger Can Nurture, Too Frank Bruni dines at Craftbar, the easygoing companion of Tom Colicchio’s Craft, and revisits Craftsteak, which has changed its approach to preparing beef. Where the Homework Is a Pleasure In this update on his April article about a do-it-yourself method of learning about wine, Eric Asimov reports on what he has found while making his way through two mixed cases. Hot, Hotter, Hottest: Fire From France To make a zippy, sinus-clearing dressing for leeks, find the brightest yellow Dijon mustard you can find and then add a lot of it. Prim but Satisfying, Venerable Sweets From Milan Chocolates for Mother’s Day, drop-in help for those without cooks and delicate petals of dried olive tapenade with a multitude of potential uses. New York Makes a Strong Showing at the James Beard Awards The move of the awards this year to Lincoln Center added glamour to a major culinary event and the “best chef New York City” award was given to David Waltuck of Chanterelle. Dining Briefs: Spotlight Live and Pio Pio Salon A look at two new restaurants: Spotlight Live, which channels “American Idol,” and Pio Pio Salon, a Peruvian spot on Amsterdam Avenue. Waiters Claim Harassment at Mr. Chow Three former employees of Michael Chow’s elegant Chinese restaurants have filed a lawsuit filled with bizarre allegations. ‘Top Chef’ Dreams Crushed by Student Loan Debt For would-be top chefs, there are few jobs that pay enough for them to retire their student loans. To Study Wine, Buy and Drink The best place to learn about wine, says Eric Asimov, is at home and this do-it-yourself method works for anyone who loves wine, including beginners. The Heel Is Rising Apulia, at the bottom of the Italian boot, has farmhouses turned into luxury hotels, compelling Baroque churches and a cuisine worth savoring. Just don't call it the next Tuscany. Audio Slide Show: Return to Apulia Food: The Way We Eat Looking at ‘‘The Silver Palate Cookbook’’ on its silver anniversary. 'The Joy of Drinking' Reviewed by ROBERT R. HARRIS A history of our long love affair with drinking. Hawking Hot Dogs: Some Are All-Stars and Then There’s ... By HARRY HURT III The New York Mets were warming up to play and I was warming up to sell a food item as famously American as baseball and apple pie. Video: Hawking Hot Dogs Letters to the Editor Living | Spring 2007 It's all about extreme grilling, good-humored ice cream and molecular mixology. Get the recipe for all the fixings of a delicious summer in the latest installment of T: Style. Go to T: Style Magazine » In his latest post, Frank Bruni discusses the restaurant Mozza in Los Angeles. Go to Blog » , Eric Asimov ponders terroir. Go to Blog » A slew of new restaurants are opening this week, including China de Puebla, Perilla, Saucy and Nelson Blue. Recipe: Butterscotch Budino With Caramel Sauce Recipe: Extra-Sharp Leeks Vinaigrette Times food columnist Mark Bittman, a k a The Minimalist, outfits a kitchen with the basics for less than $300. Frank Bruni talks about the rustic region of Apulia on the heel of Italy's boot. From Deli to Gourmet Enterprise The founders of Zingerman's Delicatessen in Ann Arbor, Mich., have expanded through a carefully thought out 12-year plan to build a mini food empire. Connecticut: White Peach Restaurant Long Island: Sea Levels Long Island Vines: Clovis Point and Medolla Vineyards Frank Bruni discusses restaurants and dining trends in New York City. Eric Asimov, chief wine critic, on recent tastings and trends. MOST POPULAR - STYLE The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? Faster Fashion, Cheaper Chic In the Garden: It Takes a Hammer to Grow This Salad A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Critic’s Notebook: In Los Angeles, the Accidental Pizza Maker Fitness: The Yoga Therapist Will See You Now Tribute: The Woman No Hat Could Tame Fitness: A Healthy Mix of Rest and Motion Go to Complete List » You Do the Math Go to Complete List » Find home & garden professionals in your area today In Home & Garden: View all Home & Garden Classifieds Post Your Ad Now! Snowy Owl, Plate 121 Get what’s cooking at your door. Get The Times delivered at 50% off. What’s new on Broadway? Browse movie reviews from 1913. Start your 30-day free trial of Times Reader today. Which gadget is getting all the buzz? Buy, sell or research a car. See what’s cooking out or at home for $3.15 a week. The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/opinion/10kummer.html?ex=1336449600&en=295532d6b5d0c0d3&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Less Green at the Farmers&#8217; Market - New York Times Less Green at the Farmers’ Market Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 Skip to next paragraph IN the five years since the last farm bill was passed, the number of farmers’ markets in this country has grown to nearly 4,500 from 2,750, gladdening the hearts of foodies who like nothing better than seeing locally grown Chioggia beets, butter radishes, Early Girl tomatoes, miniature pattypan squash, chervil, fresh goat cheese logs and duck breast in a conveniently located market. Some of the best customers of farmers’ markets, though, haven’t been free-spending foodies, but food-aid recipients. Happily, the new farm bill before Congress has several proposals to vastly increase food aid to the poor, including two programs that allow them to buy at farmers’ markets. That normally would be great for small farmers. Without the guaranteed income from the farm bill’s $15 million Seniors Farmers’ Market Nutrition Program and the separate $25 million Farmers’ Market Nutrition Program (part of the food aid program for families known as WIC), some small growers would be out of business, and many others would be reluctant to sell in low-income neighborhoods where fresh produce is otherwise a rarity — “food deserts.” But, it turns out, new efforts to encourage food-aid recipients to eat more fruits and vegetables — which are calamitously underrepresented in American diets — could end up shutting out the small farmers who are the backbone of these markets. The Agriculture Department has proposed rules that would reallocate WIC benefits now restricted to eggs and dairy products, which have long enjoyed the muscle of well-financed lobbies, to fruits and vegetables, which haven’t. Millions of children would be entitled to $6 a month for produce. And in its initial proposals for the new farm bill, the Bush administration suggested making available $200 million, starting next year, to buy fruits and vegetables for the poor. If such suggestions get approved, hundreds of millions more dollars could be spent every year on fresh produce. There’s a big catch, though: small farmers might not reap the windfall. Over the past 15 years, most states have switched from paper coupons for food stamps to debit cards, removing the stigma of redemption at the checkout counter. The WIC program, which still uses paper, will most likely do the same. Most farmers, of course, don’t take plastic — and, market managers say, they have seen their sales plummet with the switch from paper. The need for farmers to enter the cashless economy is obvious. Wireless card readers will benefit both people on food assistance and foodies who (like me) don’t carry all the cash they end up eager to spend. But who will pay for the machines, which can cost as much as $1,500 and incur steep monthly service fees, not to mention workers trained to use them? Without card readers, farmers fear they will lose the bulk of the farm bill help they get now, and be shut out of those new hundreds of millions. The proposals at the Agriculture Department and in the farm bill would let food-aid recipients buy fruits and vegetables wherever they can find them. That means supermarkets — which remain the most convenient place to buy produce. Farmers’ market advocates are alarmed. The money will go to the centralized industrial farms that supply supermarkets, they say — the ones that crush small farmers and waste fuel. So: Help small farmers and the places dedicated to selling truly local food, or help the sharply increasing number of people struggling to feed themselves and their families? The most equitable way to help farmer’s markets may be to urge legislators to support good programs already in the farm bill, like the Farmers’ Market Promotion Program and Community Food Projects. These could equip farmers with card readers, an essential first step, and finance other ingenious projects to help small farmers thrive. Concerned cooks (and everyone else) should urge increases for education programs that tell people how and where to use food stamps. Only 56 percent of people eligible for food stamps get them, and most of those recipients don’t know that the stamps can be used at farmers’ markets. A reason often given for the great success of the WIC farmers’ market program is the nutrition education that comes with it. Yes, supermarkets may well get the great majority of increased benefits for fresh produce. But a small slice of a much larger pie could amount to as much as or more money than farmers’ markets now get from food-assistance programs. And the new money available for fruit and vegetables would mean that “specialty crops” — the kind we actually think of as food, as opposed to crops like corn, soy and cotton that get the much criticized multibillion-dollar commodity subsidies — would finally get support from the farm bill. More people would eat healthier diets, and farmers might start growing even better-tasting varieties, confident of finding a market. Many other programs proposed for the farm bill could bring locally grown food to places that want and need it, like schools and hospitals. But farmers’ markets are where the bill can best serve cooks — a frequently well-financed, always opinionated special-interest group that should start acting like one. Corby Kummer, a senior editor at The Atlantic Monthly, is the author of “The Pleasures of Slow Food.” More Articles in Opinion &#x00bb; To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Coveted, French, And Now in Tennessee Rise in Ethanol Raises Concerns About Corn as a Food The Seeds Of a Mission; Farmers Are Wooed To Help Food Makers Reduce Trans Fat Leveling the Indian Playing Field? More Articles in Opinion &#x00bb; Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/09/dining/09curi.html?ex=1336363200&en=241e6d2a12065c24&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? - New York Times The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 9, 2007 A COUPLE of weeks ago I saw a new scientific paper from that struck me as both pioneering and hilarious. Skip to next paragraph Accompanied by six graphs, two tables and equations whose terms include “bologna” and “carpet,” it’s a thorough microbiological study of the five-second rule: the idea that if you pick up a dropped piece of food before you can count to five, it’s O.K. to eat it. I first heard about the rule from my then-young children and thought it was just a way of having fun at snack time and lunch. My daughter now tells me that fun was part of it, but they knew they were playing with “germs.” We’re reminded about germs on food whenever there’s an outbreak of E. coli or salmonella, and whenever we read the labels on packages of uncooked meat. But we don’t have much occasion to think about the everyday practice of retrieving and eating dropped pieces of food. Microbes are everywhere around us, not just on floors. They thrive in wet kitchen sponges and end up on freshly wiped countertops. As I write this column, on an airplane, I realize that I have removed a chicken sandwich from its protective plastic sleeve and put it down repeatedly on the sleeve’s outer surface, which was meant to protect the sandwich by blocking microbes. What’s on the outer surface? Without the five-second rule on my mind I wouldn’t have thought to wonder. I learned from the Clemson study that the true pioneer of five-second research was Jillian Clarke, a high-school intern at the in 2003. Ms. Clarke conducted a survey and found that slightly more than half of the men and 70 percent of the women knew of the five-second rule, and many said they followed it. She did an experiment by contaminating ceramic tiles with E. coli, placing gummy bears and cookies on the tiles for the statutory five seconds, and then analyzing the foods. They had become contaminated with bacteria. For performing this first test of the five-second rule, Ms. Clarke was recognized by the Annals of Improbable Research with the 2004 Ig Nobel Prize in public health. It’s not surprising that food dropped onto bacteria would collect some bacteria. But how many? Does it collect more as the seconds tick by? Enough to make you sick? Prof. Paul L. Dawson and his colleagues at Clemson have now put some numbers on floor-to-food contamination. Their bacterium of choice was salmonella; the test surfaces were tile, wood flooring and nylon carpet; and the test foods were slices of bread and bologna. First the researchers measured how long bacteria could survive on the surfaces. They applied salmonella broth in doses of several million bacteria per square centimeter, a number typical of badly contaminated food. I had thought that most bacteria were sensitive to drying out, but after 24 hours of exposure to the air, thousands of bacteria per square centimeter had survived on the tile and wood, and tens of thousands on the carpet. Hundreds of salmonella were still alive after 28 days. Professor Dawson and colleagues then placed test food slices onto salmonella-painted surfaces for varying lengths of time, and counted how many live bacteria were transferred to the food. On surfaces that had been contaminated eight hours earlier, slices of bologna and bread left for five seconds took up from 150 to 8,000 bacteria. Left for a full minute, slices collected about 10 times more than that from the tile and carpet, though a lower number from the wood. What do these numbers tell us about the five-second rule? Quick retrieval does mean fewer bacteria, but it’s no guarantee of safety. True, Jillian Clarke found that the number of bacteria on the floor at the University of Illinois was so low it couldn’t be measured, and the Clemson researchers resorted to extremely high contamination levels for their tests. But even if a floor — or a countertop, or wrapper — carried only a thousandth the number of bacteria applied by the researchers, the piece of food would be likely to pick up several bacteria. The infectious dose, the smallest number of bacteria that can actually cause illness, is as few as 10 for some salmonellas, fewer than 100 for the deadly strain of E. coli. Of course we can never know for sure how many harmful microbes there are on any surface. But we know enough now to formulate the five-second rule, version 2.0: If you drop a piece of food, pick it up quickly, take five seconds to recall that just a few bacteria can make you sick, then take a few more to think about where you dropped it and whether or not it’s worth eating. Next Article in Dining & Wine (4 of 17) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. F.D.A. Says Livestock Were Fed Pet Food With Suspect Chemical China Yields To Inquiry On Pet Food Tainted Pet Food Is Said to Be Still on Shelves Some Suspect Chemical Mix In Pet Food Food Contamination and Poisoning Next Article in Dining & Wine (4 of 17) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Find home & garden professionals in your area today In Home & Garden: View all Home & Garden Classifieds Post Your Ad Now! Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/09/dining/09kool.html?ex=1336363200&en=7a27f33dc04d4371&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills - New York Times A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Tony Cenicola/The New York Times Sign In to E-Mail or Save This By JOHN T. EDGE Published: May 9, 2007 Skip to next paragraph Kate Medley for The New York Times Kate Medley for The New York Times FOR KIDS YOUNG AND OLD Beverly Boddie would like to trademark the Kool-Aid pickles she makes and sells at her grocery store in Cleveland, Miss. Kate Medley for The New York Times Green and red ones are her specialty. A GALLON jar of pickles sits near the register at Lee’s Washerette and Food Market, a mustard-colored cinder-block bunker on the western fringe of this Mississippi Delta town. Those pickles were once mere dills. They were once green. Their exteriors remain pebbly, a reminder that long ago they began their lives on a farm, on the ground, as cucumbers. But they now have an arresting color that combines green and garnet, and a bracing sour-sweet taste that they owe to a long marinade in cherry or tropical fruit or strawberry Kool-Aid. Kool-Aid pickles violate tradition, maybe even propriety. Depending on your palate and perspective, they are either the worst thing to happen to pickles since plastic brining barrels or a brave new taste sensation to be celebrated. The pickles have been spotted as far afield as Dallas and St. Louis, but their cult is thickest in the Delta region, among the black majority population. In the Delta, where they fetch between 50 cents and a dollar, Kool-Aid pickles have earned valued space next to such beloved snacks as pickled eggs and pigs’ feet at community fairs, convenience stores and filling stations. And as their appeal has widened, some people have seen a good business opportunity. Even the lawyers have gotten involved. Children are the primary consumers, but a recent trip through the region revealed that the market for Kool-Aid pickles is maturing. At Carver Upper Elementary School in Indianola, students in Jodi Sumner’s third-grade class have no reservations about the propriety of cucumbers flavored with vinegar and drink mix. When this writer, lugging a jar of tropical-fruit-flavored pickles, recently asked the 29 students who liked to eat Kool-Aid pickles, 29 hands shot up. The names came fast: Ladarius, Fredericka and Kobreana, among others. So did the impressions: “It’s a candy pickle.” And “I like it the same as dipping hot Cheetos in ice cream.” And “Have you ever tried one with a watermelon Blow Pop?” followed by a pantomime of how the Blow Pop stick can be inserted so that the candy appears as a knob at one end of the pickle, allowing the eater to alternate between bites of sour-sweet pickle and licks of sweet-sour Blow Pop. Nobody knows just who first decided that pickles would be improved by a bath in sugared drink mix, or when, but the invention seems to be of fairly recent provenance. Typically, Kool-Aid pickle fans were born some time after moved into the White House. Billie Williams, 56, a special-education teacher at Carver Elementary, never saw one when she was a child. But she did eat dill pickles impaled on peppermint sticks, and she remembers how friends sucked the juice from cut lemons through peppermint sticks repurposed as straws. “That’s the same kind of taste,” she said. “Same as how they used to dip pickle spears in dry Kool-Aid mix for that pucker.” The school sells Kool-Aid pickles from the popular red flavor family at its fund-raisers. “They’re easy to make a gallon,” Ms. Williams said. “You pull the pickles from the jar, cut them in halves, make double-strength Kool-Aid, add a pound of sugar, shake and let it sit — best in the refrigerator — for about a week. The taste takes to anything. A while back I made a mistake and bought a jar of pickle chips instead of halves or wholes. Came out fine. This whole Kool-Aid pickle thing is going so good, you wonder why somebody hasn’t put a patent on them.” No patent application has been filed, but the name Kool-Aid is a trademark owned by Kraft Foods. Upon learning of the pickles, Bridget MacConnell, a senior manager of corporate affairs at Kraft, recovered, and then pronounced, “We endorse our consumers’ finding innovative ways to use our products.” Most of the children at Carver — perhaps most of the children in the Delta — buy their Kool-Aid pickles from unlicensed house stores, operated by neighborhood elders who, seated at their kitchen tables, sell snacks and chips and candy to anyone who comes knocking. (If these folks sold whiskey instead of pickles, their enterprises would be known as shot houses.) Ms. Sumner’s students praised in particular “the lady on Quick Circle whose dogs bark when you walk up” and “the woman who stays on Slim Street who sells nachos, too.” At the Stephensville Mini-Mart, set amid the cotton fields and catfish ponds between Shaw and Indianola, the owner, Hugh Davis, began stocking Kool-Aid pickles earlier this year at the behest of local children. “They’re not for me,” said Mr. Davis, 66. “It’s the kids who’ve done it. They’ll create a line of food for you; they’ll dab a little something here and there and make it their own. They’re good at inventing.” Recently, some Delta grocers began selling jars of ready-made pickles. And entrepreneurs are emerging. At Lambard’s Wholesale Meats in Cleveland, Allen Williams sells plastic gallon jugs of Best Maid dills, plastered with the Kool-Aid packs that denote the flavor within. (Mr. Williams declined to reveal who actually makes his Kool-Aid pickles.) Across town at Eastend Grocery, Beverly and Claud Boddie stand behind their products. They have honed proprietary recipes for green and red flavors that involve piercing the pickles with a fork and stirring together multiple Kool-Aid flavors to achieve maximum pucker. Ms. Boddie, 37, wants to apply for a trademark as “soon as I can raise some money and settle on a name.” She’d better get a move on. Double Quick, the Indianola-based chain of more than 30 Delta convenience stores (famous in some circles for a singing group, the Double Quick Gospel Choir, composed of store managers and supervisors), has begun pursuing a trademark for Koolickle, a name coined by Rick Beuning, its director of food service. “I’m a white boy from the Midwest,” said Mr. Beuning, 53. “This isn’t my food, but I know a good product when I see one.” Next Article in Dining & Wine (3 of 17) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. QUICK BITE | Riverside; A Quick and Tasty Trip to Tokyo DINING/WESTPORT; For an Indian Standby, New Name, Added Variety THE WAY WE LIVE NOW: 2-11-07: DOMAINS; The Restaurant Moguls Retreat Next Article in Dining & Wine (3 of 17) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Find home & garden professionals in your area today In Home & Garden: View all Home & Garden Classifieds Post Your Ad Now! Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/09/dining/09kool.html	A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills - New York Times A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Tony Cenicola/The New York Times Sign In to E-Mail or Save This By JOHN T. EDGE Published: May 9, 2007 Skip to next paragraph Kate Medley for The New York Times Kate Medley for The New York Times FOR KIDS YOUNG AND OLD Beverly Boddie would like to trademark the Kool-Aid pickles she makes and sells at her grocery store in Cleveland, Miss. Kate Medley for The New York Times Green and red ones are her specialty. A GALLON jar of pickles sits near the register at Lee’s Washerette and Food Market, a mustard-colored cinder-block bunker on the western fringe of this Mississippi Delta town. Those pickles were once mere dills. They were once green. Their exteriors remain pebbly, a reminder that long ago they began their lives on a farm, on the ground, as cucumbers. But they now have an arresting color that combines green and garnet, and a bracing sour-sweet taste that they owe to a long marinade in cherry or tropical fruit or strawberry Kool-Aid. Kool-Aid pickles violate tradition, maybe even propriety. Depending on your palate and perspective, they are either the worst thing to happen to pickles since plastic brining barrels or a brave new taste sensation to be celebrated. The pickles have been spotted as far afield as Dallas and St. Louis, but their cult is thickest in the Delta region, among the black majority population. In the Delta, where they fetch between 50 cents and a dollar, Kool-Aid pickles have earned valued space next to such beloved snacks as pickled eggs and pigs’ feet at community fairs, convenience stores and filling stations. And as their appeal has widened, some people have seen a good business opportunity. Even the lawyers have gotten involved. Children are the primary consumers, but a recent trip through the region revealed that the market for Kool-Aid pickles is maturing. At Carver Upper Elementary School in Indianola, students in Jodi Sumner’s third-grade class have no reservations about the propriety of cucumbers flavored with vinegar and drink mix. When this writer, lugging a jar of tropical-fruit-flavored pickles, recently asked the 29 students who liked to eat Kool-Aid pickles, 29 hands shot up. The names came fast: Ladarius, Fredericka and Kobreana, among others. So did the impressions: “It’s a candy pickle.” And “I like it the same as dipping hot Cheetos in ice cream.” And “Have you ever tried one with a watermelon Blow Pop?” followed by a pantomime of how the Blow Pop stick can be inserted so that the candy appears as a knob at one end of the pickle, allowing the eater to alternate between bites of sour-sweet pickle and licks of sweet-sour Blow Pop. Nobody knows just who first decided that pickles would be improved by a bath in sugared drink mix, or when, but the invention seems to be of fairly recent provenance. Typically, Kool-Aid pickle fans were born some time after moved into the White House. Billie Williams, 56, a special-education teacher at Carver Elementary, never saw one when she was a child. But she did eat dill pickles impaled on peppermint sticks, and she remembers how friends sucked the juice from cut lemons through peppermint sticks repurposed as straws. “That’s the same kind of taste,” she said. “Same as how they used to dip pickle spears in dry Kool-Aid mix for that pucker.” The school sells Kool-Aid pickles from the popular red flavor family at its fund-raisers. “They’re easy to make a gallon,” Ms. Williams said. “You pull the pickles from the jar, cut them in halves, make double-strength Kool-Aid, add a pound of sugar, shake and let it sit — best in the refrigerator — for about a week. The taste takes to anything. A while back I made a mistake and bought a jar of pickle chips instead of halves or wholes. Came out fine. This whole Kool-Aid pickle thing is going so good, you wonder why somebody hasn’t put a patent on them.” No patent application has been filed, but the name Kool-Aid is a trademark owned by Kraft Foods. Upon learning of the pickles, Bridget MacConnell, a senior manager of corporate affairs at Kraft, recovered, and then pronounced, “We endorse our consumers’ finding innovative ways to use our products.” Most of the children at Carver — perhaps most of the children in the Delta — buy their Kool-Aid pickles from unlicensed house stores, operated by neighborhood elders who, seated at their kitchen tables, sell snacks and chips and candy to anyone who comes knocking. (If these folks sold whiskey instead of pickles, their enterprises would be known as shot houses.) Ms. Sumner’s students praised in particular “the lady on Quick Circle whose dogs bark when you walk up” and “the woman who stays on Slim Street who sells nachos, too.” At the Stephensville Mini-Mart, set amid the cotton fields and catfish ponds between Shaw and Indianola, the owner, Hugh Davis, began stocking Kool-Aid pickles earlier this year at the behest of local children. “They’re not for me,” said Mr. Davis, 66. “It’s the kids who’ve done it. They’ll create a line of food for you; they’ll dab a little something here and there and make it their own. They’re good at inventing.” Recently, some Delta grocers began selling jars of ready-made pickles. And entrepreneurs are emerging. At Lambard’s Wholesale Meats in Cleveland, Allen Williams sells plastic gallon jugs of Best Maid dills, plastered with the Kool-Aid packs that denote the flavor within. (Mr. Williams declined to reveal who actually makes his Kool-Aid pickles.) Across town at Eastend Grocery, Beverly and Claud Boddie stand behind their products. They have honed proprietary recipes for green and red flavors that involve piercing the pickles with a fork and stirring together multiple Kool-Aid flavors to achieve maximum pucker. Ms. Boddie, 37, wants to apply for a trademark as “soon as I can raise some money and settle on a name.” She’d better get a move on. Double Quick, the Indianola-based chain of more than 30 Delta convenience stores (famous in some circles for a singing group, the Double Quick Gospel Choir, composed of store managers and supervisors), has begun pursuing a trademark for Koolickle, a name coined by Rick Beuning, its director of food service. “I’m a white boy from the Midwest,” said Mr. Beuning, 53. “This isn’t my food, but I know a good product when I see one.” Next Article in Dining & Wine (3 of 17) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. QUICK BITE | Riverside; A Quick and Tasty Trip to Tokyo DINING/WESTPORT; For an Indian Standby, New Name, Added Variety THE WAY WE LIVE NOW: 2-11-07: DOMAINS; The Restaurant Moguls Retreat Next Article in Dining & Wine (3 of 17) &#x00bb; A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Find home & garden professionals in your area today In Home & Garden: View all Home & Garden Classifieds Post Your Ad Now! Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/09/dining/09mini.html?ex=1336363200&en=e39f14d761f1b0bc&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks - New York Times A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Tony Cenicola/The New York Times See a key to the items in this photograph Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 9, 2007 THE question I’m asked more often than any other is, “What kitchen equipment should I buy?” Skip to next paragraph Tony Cenicola/The New York Times 10-inch nonstick frying pan, $12.95. Like cookbooks, kitchen equipment is a talisman; people believe that buying the right kind will make them good cooks. Yet some of the best cooks I’ve known worked with a battered batterie de cuisine: dented pots and pans scarred beyond recognition, an old steak knife turned into an all-purpose tool, a pot lid held just so to strain pasta when the colander was missing, a food processor with a busted switch. They didn’t complain and they didn’t apologize; they just cooked. But famous TV chefs use gorgeous name-brand equipment, you might say. And you’d be right. But a.) they get much of that stuff free, the manufacturers hoping that placing it in the hands of a well-known chef will make you think it’s essential; b.) they want their equipment to be pretty, so you’ll think they’re important; and c.) see above: a costly knife is not a talisman and you are not a TV chef. Finally (and this is crucial), the best chefs may use the best-looking equipment when they are in public view, but when it is time to buy equipment for the people who actually prepare those $200 restaurant meals, they go to a restaurant supply house to shop for the everyday cookware I recommend to people all the time. In fact, I contend that with a bit of savvy, patience and a willingness to forgo steel-handle knives, copper pots and other extravagant items, $200 can equip a basic kitchen that will be adequate for just about any task, and $300 can equip one quite well. To prove my point I put together a list of everything needed for almost any cooking task. I bought most of the equipment at Bowery Restaurant Supply, 183 Bowery Street (Delancey Street), where the bill came to just about $200. Throw in a few items the store didn’t have and a few extras, and the total would be about $300. (New York happens to have scores of restaurant supply shops, but every metropolitan area has at least one.) I started with an eight-inch, plastic-handle stainless alloy chef’s knife for $10. This is probably the most essential tool in the kitchen. People not only obsess about knives (and write entire articles about them), but you can easily spend over $100 on just one. Yet go into any restaurant kitchen and you will see most of the cooks using this same plastic-handle Dexter-Russell tool. (Go to the wrong store and you’ll spend $20 or even $30 on the same knife.) I found an instant-read thermometer, a necessity for beginning cooks and obsessive-compulsives, for $5. Three stainless steel bowls — not gorgeous and maybe a little thin — set me back about $5. You are reading that right. Sturdy tongs, an underappreciated tool: $3.50 (don’t buy them too long, make sure the spring is nice and tight, and don’t shop for them at a “culinary” store, where they’ll cost four times as much). For less than $6 I picked up a sturdy sheet pan. It’s not an ideal cookie sheet but it’s useful for roasting and baking (not a bad tray, either, and one of the more common items in restaurant kitchens). A plastic cutting board was about the same price. For aesthetic purposes I’d rather have wood, but plastic can go into the dishwasher. At $3, a paring knife was so cheap I could replace it every year or two. I splurged on a Japanese mandoline for $25. (It’s not indispensable, but since my knife skills are pathetic, I use mine whenever I want thin, even slices or a real julienne.) You, or the college graduate you are thinking of, might own some of the things I bought: a $4 can opener; a vegetable peeler (I like the U-shaped type, which cost me $3); a colander ($7, and I probably could’ve gotten one cheaper). You are thinking to yourself: “Humph. He’s ignoring pots and pans, the most expensive items of all.” Au contraire, my friend; I bought five, and I could live with four (though I’d rather have six): a small, medium and large cast-aluminum saucepan (total: about $30); a medium nonstick cast aluminum pan (10-inch; $13); and a large steep-sided, heavier duty steel pan (14-inch; $25). I bought a single lid ($5; I often use plates or whatever’s handy for lids because I can never find the right one anyway). Next Article in Dining & Wine (1 of 17) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. HABITATS/Brooklyn Heights; 4-Star Dinners Conjured From A 1-Star Kitchen THE MEDIA EQUATION; Rachael Ray Gives the Gift Of Time Top of the Food Chain Next Article in Dining & Wine (1 of 17) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Find home & garden professionals in your area today In Home & Garden: View all Home & Garden Classifieds Post Your Ad Now! Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/opinion/10kummer.html	Less Green at the Farmers&#8217; Market - New York Times Less Green at the Farmers’ Market Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 Skip to next paragraph IN the five years since the last farm bill was passed, the number of farmers’ markets in this country has grown to nearly 4,500 from 2,750, gladdening the hearts of foodies who like nothing better than seeing locally grown Chioggia beets, butter radishes, Early Girl tomatoes, miniature pattypan squash, chervil, fresh goat cheese logs and duck breast in a conveniently located market. Some of the best customers of farmers’ markets, though, haven’t been free-spending foodies, but food-aid recipients. Happily, the new farm bill before Congress has several proposals to vastly increase food aid to the poor, including two programs that allow them to buy at farmers’ markets. That normally would be great for small farmers. Without the guaranteed income from the farm bill’s $15 million Seniors Farmers’ Market Nutrition Program and the separate $25 million Farmers’ Market Nutrition Program (part of the food aid program for families known as WIC), some small growers would be out of business, and many others would be reluctant to sell in low-income neighborhoods where fresh produce is otherwise a rarity — “food deserts.” But, it turns out, new efforts to encourage food-aid recipients to eat more fruits and vegetables — which are calamitously underrepresented in American diets — could end up shutting out the small farmers who are the backbone of these markets. The Agriculture Department has proposed rules that would reallocate WIC benefits now restricted to eggs and dairy products, which have long enjoyed the muscle of well-financed lobbies, to fruits and vegetables, which haven’t. Millions of children would be entitled to $6 a month for produce. And in its initial proposals for the new farm bill, the Bush administration suggested making available $200 million, starting next year, to buy fruits and vegetables for the poor. If such suggestions get approved, hundreds of millions more dollars could be spent every year on fresh produce. There’s a big catch, though: small farmers might not reap the windfall. Over the past 15 years, most states have switched from paper coupons for food stamps to debit cards, removing the stigma of redemption at the checkout counter. The WIC program, which still uses paper, will most likely do the same. Most farmers, of course, don’t take plastic — and, market managers say, they have seen their sales plummet with the switch from paper. The need for farmers to enter the cashless economy is obvious. Wireless card readers will benefit both people on food assistance and foodies who (like me) don’t carry all the cash they end up eager to spend. But who will pay for the machines, which can cost as much as $1,500 and incur steep monthly service fees, not to mention workers trained to use them? Without card readers, farmers fear they will lose the bulk of the farm bill help they get now, and be shut out of those new hundreds of millions. The proposals at the Agriculture Department and in the farm bill would let food-aid recipients buy fruits and vegetables wherever they can find them. That means supermarkets — which remain the most convenient place to buy produce. Farmers’ market advocates are alarmed. The money will go to the centralized industrial farms that supply supermarkets, they say — the ones that crush small farmers and waste fuel. So: Help small farmers and the places dedicated to selling truly local food, or help the sharply increasing number of people struggling to feed themselves and their families? The most equitable way to help farmer’s markets may be to urge legislators to support good programs already in the farm bill, like the Farmers’ Market Promotion Program and Community Food Projects. These could equip farmers with card readers, an essential first step, and finance other ingenious projects to help small farmers thrive. Concerned cooks (and everyone else) should urge increases for education programs that tell people how and where to use food stamps. Only 56 percent of people eligible for food stamps get them, and most of those recipients don’t know that the stamps can be used at farmers’ markets. A reason often given for the great success of the WIC farmers’ market program is the nutrition education that comes with it. Yes, supermarkets may well get the great majority of increased benefits for fresh produce. But a small slice of a much larger pie could amount to as much as or more money than farmers’ markets now get from food-assistance programs. And the new money available for fruit and vegetables would mean that “specialty crops” — the kind we actually think of as food, as opposed to crops like corn, soy and cotton that get the much criticized multibillion-dollar commodity subsidies — would finally get support from the farm bill. More people would eat healthier diets, and farmers might start growing even better-tasting varieties, confident of finding a market. Many other programs proposed for the farm bill could bring locally grown food to places that want and need it, like schools and hospitals. But farmers’ markets are where the bill can best serve cooks — a frequently well-financed, always opinionated special-interest group that should start acting like one. Corby Kummer, a senior editor at The Atlantic Monthly, is the author of “The Pleasures of Slow Food.” More Articles in Opinion &#x00bb; To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Coveted, French, And Now in Tennessee Rise in Ethanol Raises Concerns About Corn as a Food The Seeds Of a Mission; Farmers Are Wooed To Help Food Makers Reduce Trans Fat Leveling the Indian Playing Field? More Articles in Opinion &#x00bb; Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/09/dining/09curi.html	The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? - New York Times The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 9, 2007 A COUPLE of weeks ago I saw a new scientific paper from that struck me as both pioneering and hilarious. Skip to next paragraph Accompanied by six graphs, two tables and equations whose terms include “bologna” and “carpet,” it’s a thorough microbiological study of the five-second rule: the idea that if you pick up a dropped piece of food before you can count to five, it’s O.K. to eat it. I first heard about the rule from my then-young children and thought it was just a way of having fun at snack time and lunch. My daughter now tells me that fun was part of it, but they knew they were playing with “germs.” We’re reminded about germs on food whenever there’s an outbreak of E. coli or salmonella, and whenever we read the labels on packages of uncooked meat. But we don’t have much occasion to think about the everyday practice of retrieving and eating dropped pieces of food. Microbes are everywhere around us, not just on floors. They thrive in wet kitchen sponges and end up on freshly wiped countertops. As I write this column, on an airplane, I realize that I have removed a chicken sandwich from its protective plastic sleeve and put it down repeatedly on the sleeve’s outer surface, which was meant to protect the sandwich by blocking microbes. What’s on the outer surface? Without the five-second rule on my mind I wouldn’t have thought to wonder. I learned from the Clemson study that the true pioneer of five-second research was Jillian Clarke, a high-school intern at the in 2003. Ms. Clarke conducted a survey and found that slightly more than half of the men and 70 percent of the women knew of the five-second rule, and many said they followed it. She did an experiment by contaminating ceramic tiles with E. coli, placing gummy bears and cookies on the tiles for the statutory five seconds, and then analyzing the foods. They had become contaminated with bacteria. For performing this first test of the five-second rule, Ms. Clarke was recognized by the Annals of Improbable Research with the 2004 Ig Nobel Prize in public health. It’s not surprising that food dropped onto bacteria would collect some bacteria. But how many? Does it collect more as the seconds tick by? Enough to make you sick? Prof. Paul L. Dawson and his colleagues at Clemson have now put some numbers on floor-to-food contamination. Their bacterium of choice was salmonella; the test surfaces were tile, wood flooring and nylon carpet; and the test foods were slices of bread and bologna. First the researchers measured how long bacteria could survive on the surfaces. They applied salmonella broth in doses of several million bacteria per square centimeter, a number typical of badly contaminated food. I had thought that most bacteria were sensitive to drying out, but after 24 hours of exposure to the air, thousands of bacteria per square centimeter had survived on the tile and wood, and tens of thousands on the carpet. Hundreds of salmonella were still alive after 28 days. Professor Dawson and colleagues then placed test food slices onto salmonella-painted surfaces for varying lengths of time, and counted how many live bacteria were transferred to the food. On surfaces that had been contaminated eight hours earlier, slices of bologna and bread left for five seconds took up from 150 to 8,000 bacteria. Left for a full minute, slices collected about 10 times more than that from the tile and carpet, though a lower number from the wood. What do these numbers tell us about the five-second rule? Quick retrieval does mean fewer bacteria, but it’s no guarantee of safety. True, Jillian Clarke found that the number of bacteria on the floor at the University of Illinois was so low it couldn’t be measured, and the Clemson researchers resorted to extremely high contamination levels for their tests. But even if a floor — or a countertop, or wrapper — carried only a thousandth the number of bacteria applied by the researchers, the piece of food would be likely to pick up several bacteria. The infectious dose, the smallest number of bacteria that can actually cause illness, is as few as 10 for some salmonellas, fewer than 100 for the deadly strain of E. coli. Of course we can never know for sure how many harmful microbes there are on any surface. But we know enough now to formulate the five-second rule, version 2.0: If you drop a piece of food, pick it up quickly, take five seconds to recall that just a few bacteria can make you sick, then take a few more to think about where you dropped it and whether or not it’s worth eating. Next Article in Dining & Wine (4 of 17) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. F.D.A. Says Livestock Were Fed Pet Food With Suspect Chemical China Yields To Inquiry On Pet Food Tainted Pet Food Is Said to Be Still on Shelves Some Suspect Chemical Mix In Pet Food Food Contamination and Poisoning Next Article in Dining & Wine (4 of 17) &#x00bb; A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Find home & garden professionals in your area today In Home & Garden: View all Home & Garden Classifieds Post Your Ad Now! Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://events.nytimes.com/2007/05/09/dining/reviews/09rest.html?ex=1336363200&en=715755167f705467&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	The New York Times &#62; Craftsteak Restaurant Review &#62; New York City Restaurant Reviews RESTAURANT REVIEW | CRAFTSTEAK A Chef With Swagger Can Nurture, Too Evan Sung for The New York Times JUST HAD A LITTLE WORK DONE At Craftsteak, Tom Colicchio has made changes to both the staff and the steaks. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 9, 2007 HE’S a showboat, that’s for sure. You don’t sign up for three seasons of the reality TV show “Top Chef” unless you relish the glow of the spotlight. And on some points he’s dogmatic. You don’t insist on roasting your steaks when everybody else is grilling or broiling theirs unless you’re convinced you’ve found the one true path. Skip to next paragraph Evan Sung for The New York Times But never let it be said that the chef Tom Colicchio is complacent. He’ll take a successful formula and tinker with it; he’ll take an unsuccessful formula and do much more than tinker. That restlessness is evident at Craftsteak and Craftbar, though these two Craft descendants haven’t benefited equally from it. Let’s start with the younger — and luckier — of the two. Just a year old, Craftsteak has undergone so many targeted and consequential changes that I feel compelled to update my initial review, which awarded it one star. It’s now much better. More important, it’s proof that a chef can disperse his energies across various projects, as Mr. Colicchio has, and still attend sufficiently to one of his neediest cases. He just has to be alert to problems, willing to acknowledge them and ready to take action. At Craftsteak Mr. Colicchio changed the chef de cuisine, putting Shane McBride in Chris Albrecht’s place. He changed meat suppliers. And he changed the way steaks were being cooked. In the beginning, the restaurant used a griddle to try to sear steaks, then put them in copper pans in the oven. But the sear wasn’t taking: The steaks weren’t any crisper on the outside than on the inside. They weren’t especially juicy, either. The raison d’être of the restaurant, they were actually its most glaring flaw. Craftsteak continues to roast them — Mr. Colicchio believes it prevents dryness — but before they go into the oven they spend time on top of it in their copper pans, on high heat, which is accomplishing what the griddle didn’t. The steaks now have a sear. I’d still prefer an actual char, but I can’t quibble with the degree of flavor coaxed from a strip steak of grass-fed Montana beef. The different nuances of grass-fed versus corn-fed beef — Craftsteak’s conceit remains the presentation of both kinds, along with wagyu beef and beef aged a little or a lot — came through much more clearly during recent visits than before. The strip had a pointed, appealing gaminess distinct from the round, rich taste of a porterhouse of corn-fed Nebraska beef that I tried on the same night. And all the meat is more tender and moist at the core. The improvement in the steaks has made it easier to appreciate the restaurant’s other virtues: the spaciousness and comfort of its handsome, dramatically scaled dining room; the unassailable quality of its raw bar selections; its gigantic, crunchy onion rings, some of the best in the city; its fried bone marrow appetizer, a decadence-squared dream. Drawbacks remain. If a strip steak that had supposedly been dry-aged for 56 days was any indication, the aging process at Craftsteak isn’t yielding ideally tangy results. The menu is sprawling to the point of self-parody: the side dishes alone number more than 40. It encourages over-ordering and sets up the possibility of a stratospheric bill. The cheapest steaks are $32, and that gets you only six ounces of filet. Craftbar, which opened in early 2002, has moved even further from its origins than Craftsteak, having traded its nest alongside Craft for greater independence a few blocks away. The relocation in mid-2005 gave Craftbar more room: about 175 seats, including those in a private dining room, versus just 70 or so before. But it took away some of the restaurant’s soul. The stark space it now inhabits has a grim industrial feel that works against the intended coziness of the predominantly Mediterranean cuisine: fried oysters with a celery root rémoulade; sweetbreads in a lemon and tuna sauce; bruschetta with fontina and hon shimeji mushrooms; bucatini with pancetta and an oozing egg; hanger steak with buttery puréed potatoes. And the restaurant’s greater chaos seems to be undercutting the service, which has a lurching quality, with bursts of attentiveness segueing into stretches of neglect. While the lower prices of a restaurant like Craftbar presage less coddling, the duck confit here would have to be $1.90 instead of $19 to justify the frowning grumpiness of the waiter who deigned to attend to us one night. Next Article in Dining & Wine (5 of 17) &#x00bb; Report a Problem Post (3.13 stars, 8 votes) Great Setting; Disappointing Food The room is lovely; the lounge area where we ate was relaxed and comfortably informal. If only the food were as comforting. We each ordered the 56 day aged NY strip. Though the steaks were cooked to order, they both came out close to room temperature. I tried to eat mine, my partner sent his back. His returned, again at close to room temperature. The manager insisted the kitchen make it right, so we waited for new steaks. The wait was so long the waiter offered us dessert menu's. When the steaks arrived, they were now hot but generally lacking in flavor. Brussel sprouts with bacon were great; a potato boulanger tasty enough but a bit bland. Wagyu tartare ($22) had too much liquid but one could tell the beef underneath was good. They really need to fix the food problems; room is great and the staff were really trying it appeared. I really debated between satisfactory or poor but gave them an upgrade to 'satisfactory' because of the room. Read All 2 Reader Reviews Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. FOOD STUFF; OFF THE MENU 3 Chefs Depart, 2 With Full Plates FOOD STUFF; OFF THE MENU FOOD STUFF; OFF THE MENU The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Find home & garden professionals in your area today In Home & Garden: View all Home & Garden Classifieds Post Your Ad Now! Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/pages/dining/index.html?partner=rssnyt	Dining & Wine - New York Times A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Tony Cenicola/The New York Times See a key to the items in this photograph Gorgeous, name-brand pots, pans and gadgets sure are nice, but are they necessary? No, and here’s how a good cook can outfit an entire kitchen for under $300. Video: Kitchen Starter Kit Less Green at the Farmers’ Market New efforts to encourage food-aid recipients to eat more locally grown fruits and vegetables could end up shutting out the small farmers who are the backbone of these markets. In Los Angeles, the Accidental Pizza Maker As Nancy Silverton prepared to open her restaurant Mozza, a pizzeria annex was almost an afterthought. Now the parlor is one of the hottest reservations in Los Angeles A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills By JOHN T. EDGE They are either the worst thing to happen to pickles or a particularly brave new taste sensation, but Kool-Aid dills are now popular in the Mississippi Delta. The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? Is it safe to eat a piece of food that fell to the floor but was picked up in less that five seconds? Scientists recently put the five-second rule through some microbiology paces. A Chef With Swagger Can Nurture, Too Frank Bruni dines at Craftbar, the easygoing companion of Tom Colicchio’s Craft, and revisits Craftsteak, which has changed its approach to preparing beef. Where the Homework Is a Pleasure In this update on his April article about a do-it-yourself method of learning about wine, Eric Asimov reports on what he has found while making his way through two mixed cases. Hot, Hotter, Hottest: Fire From France To make a zippy, sinus-clearing dressing for leeks, find the brightest yellow Dijon mustard you can find and then add a lot of it. Prim but Satisfying, Venerable Sweets From Milan Chocolates for Mother’s Day, drop-in help for those without cooks and delicate petals of dried olive tapenade with a multitude of potential uses. New York Makes a Strong Showing at the James Beard Awards The move of the awards this year to Lincoln Center added glamour to a major culinary event and the “best chef New York City” award was given to David Waltuck of Chanterelle. Dining Briefs: Spotlight Live and Pio Pio Salon A look at two new restaurants: Spotlight Live, which channels “American Idol,” and Pio Pio Salon, a Peruvian spot on Amsterdam Avenue. Waiters Claim Harassment at Mr. Chow Three former employees of Michael Chow’s elegant Chinese restaurants have filed a lawsuit filled with bizarre allegations. ‘Top Chef’ Dreams Crushed by Student Loan Debt For would-be top chefs, there are few jobs that pay enough for them to retire their student loans. To Study Wine, Buy and Drink The best place to learn about wine, says Eric Asimov, is at home and this do-it-yourself method works for anyone who loves wine, including beginners. The Heel Is Rising Apulia, at the bottom of the Italian boot, has farmhouses turned into luxury hotels, compelling Baroque churches and a cuisine worth savoring. Just don't call it the next Tuscany. Audio Slide Show: Return to Apulia Food: The Way We Eat Looking at ‘‘The Silver Palate Cookbook’’ on its silver anniversary. 'The Joy of Drinking' Reviewed by ROBERT R. HARRIS A history of our long love affair with drinking. Hawking Hot Dogs: Some Are All-Stars and Then There’s ... By HARRY HURT III The New York Mets were warming up to play and I was warming up to sell a food item as famously American as baseball and apple pie. Video: Hawking Hot Dogs Letters to the Editor Living | Spring 2007 It's all about extreme grilling, good-humored ice cream and molecular mixology. Get the recipe for all the fixings of a delicious summer in the latest installment of T: Style. Go to T: Style Magazine » In his latest post, Frank Bruni discusses the restaurant Mozza in Los Angeles. Go to Blog » , Eric Asimov ponders terroir. Go to Blog » A slew of new restaurants are opening this week, including China de Puebla, Perilla, Saucy and Nelson Blue. Recipe: Butterscotch Budino With Caramel Sauce Recipe: Extra-Sharp Leeks Vinaigrette Times food columnist Mark Bittman, a k a The Minimalist, outfits a kitchen with the basics for less than $300. Frank Bruni talks about the rustic region of Apulia on the heel of Italy's boot. From Deli to Gourmet Enterprise The founders of Zingerman's Delicatessen in Ann Arbor, Mich., have expanded through a carefully thought out 12-year plan to build a mini food empire. Connecticut: White Peach Restaurant Long Island: Sea Levels Long Island Vines: Clovis Point and Medolla Vineyards Frank Bruni discusses restaurants and dining trends in New York City. Eric Asimov, chief wine critic, on recent tastings and trends. MOST POPULAR - STYLE The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? Faster Fashion, Cheaper Chic In the Garden: It Takes a Hammer to Grow This Salad A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Critic’s Notebook: In Los Angeles, the Accidental Pizza Maker Fitness: The Yoga Therapist Will See You Now Tribute: The Woman No Hat Could Tame Fitness: A Healthy Mix of Rest and Motion Go to Complete List » You Do the Math Go to Complete List » Find home & garden professionals in your area today In Home & Garden: View all Home & Garden Classifieds Post Your Ad Now! Mets Win World Series, 1986 Get what’s cooking at your door. Get The Times delivered at 50% off. See what’s cooking out or at home for $3.15 a week. Buy, sell or rent a home. Start your 30-day free trial of Times Reader today. What’s new on Broadway? What movie should you see? The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/09/dining/09mini.html	A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks - New York Times A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Tony Cenicola/The New York Times See a key to the items in this photograph Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 9, 2007 THE question I’m asked more often than any other is, “What kitchen equipment should I buy?” Skip to next paragraph Tony Cenicola/The New York Times 10-inch nonstick frying pan, $12.95. Like cookbooks, kitchen equipment is a talisman; people believe that buying the right kind will make them good cooks. Yet some of the best cooks I’ve known worked with a battered batterie de cuisine: dented pots and pans scarred beyond recognition, an old steak knife turned into an all-purpose tool, a pot lid held just so to strain pasta when the colander was missing, a food processor with a busted switch. They didn’t complain and they didn’t apologize; they just cooked. But famous TV chefs use gorgeous name-brand equipment, you might say. And you’d be right. But a.) they get much of that stuff free, the manufacturers hoping that placing it in the hands of a well-known chef will make you think it’s essential; b.) they want their equipment to be pretty, so you’ll think they’re important; and c.) see above: a costly knife is not a talisman and you are not a TV chef. Finally (and this is crucial), the best chefs may use the best-looking equipment when they are in public view, but when it is time to buy equipment for the people who actually prepare those $200 restaurant meals, they go to a restaurant supply house to shop for the everyday cookware I recommend to people all the time. In fact, I contend that with a bit of savvy, patience and a willingness to forgo steel-handle knives, copper pots and other extravagant items, $200 can equip a basic kitchen that will be adequate for just about any task, and $300 can equip one quite well. To prove my point I put together a list of everything needed for almost any cooking task. I bought most of the equipment at Bowery Restaurant Supply, 183 Bowery Street (Delancey Street), where the bill came to just about $200. Throw in a few items the store didn’t have and a few extras, and the total would be about $300. (New York happens to have scores of restaurant supply shops, but every metropolitan area has at least one.) I started with an eight-inch, plastic-handle stainless alloy chef’s knife for $10. This is probably the most essential tool in the kitchen. People not only obsess about knives (and write entire articles about them), but you can easily spend over $100 on just one. Yet go into any restaurant kitchen and you will see most of the cooks using this same plastic-handle Dexter-Russell tool. (Go to the wrong store and you’ll spend $20 or even $30 on the same knife.) I found an instant-read thermometer, a necessity for beginning cooks and obsessive-compulsives, for $5. Three stainless steel bowls — not gorgeous and maybe a little thin — set me back about $5. You are reading that right. Sturdy tongs, an underappreciated tool: $3.50 (don’t buy them too long, make sure the spring is nice and tight, and don’t shop for them at a “culinary” store, where they’ll cost four times as much). For less than $6 I picked up a sturdy sheet pan. It’s not an ideal cookie sheet but it’s useful for roasting and baking (not a bad tray, either, and one of the more common items in restaurant kitchens). A plastic cutting board was about the same price. For aesthetic purposes I’d rather have wood, but plastic can go into the dishwasher. At $3, a paring knife was so cheap I could replace it every year or two. I splurged on a Japanese mandoline for $25. (It’s not indispensable, but since my knife skills are pathetic, I use mine whenever I want thin, even slices or a real julienne.) You, or the college graduate you are thinking of, might own some of the things I bought: a $4 can opener; a vegetable peeler (I like the U-shaped type, which cost me $3); a colander ($7, and I probably could’ve gotten one cheaper). You are thinking to yourself: “Humph. He’s ignoring pots and pans, the most expensive items of all.” Au contraire, my friend; I bought five, and I could live with four (though I’d rather have six): a small, medium and large cast-aluminum saucepan (total: about $30); a medium nonstick cast aluminum pan (10-inch; $13); and a large steep-sided, heavier duty steel pan (14-inch; $25). I bought a single lid ($5; I often use plates or whatever’s handy for lids because I can never find the right one anyway). Next Article in Dining & Wine (1 of 17) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. HABITATS/Brooklyn Heights; 4-Star Dinners Conjured From A 1-Star Kitchen THE MEDIA EQUATION; Rachael Ray Gives the Gift Of Time Top of the Food Chain Next Article in Dining & Wine (1 of 17) &#x00bb; A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Find home & garden professionals in your area today In Home & Garden: View all Home & Garden Classifieds Post Your Ad Now! Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/09/dining/09mozz.html	In Los Angeles, the Accidental Pizza Maker - New York Times In Los Angeles, the Accidental Pizza Maker Stephanie Diani for The New York Times From the counter at Pizzeria Mozza in Los Angeles, diners can watch pizzas being prepared and baked in a wood-burning oven. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 9, 2007 Skip to next paragraph Recipe: Butterscotch Budino With Caramel Sauce Stephanie Diani for The New York Times Nancy Silverton at Pizzeria Mozza. A FUNNY thing happened on Nancy Silverton’s way to opening a new Italian restaurant here. Actually, a doughy, cheesy, wonderful thing happened, and neither she nor Los Angeles may ever be quite the same. Looking for the right spot for her restaurant, she homed in on one that happened to have a pizzeria attached to it. And it hit her: pizzas. She should do pizzas herself. She should do them in this annex, next to the rest of her operation, because the space was already set up that way, with the right kind of wood-burning oven right where an oven should be. Her restaurant, Osteria Mozza, would be the star. Its scrappy sibling, Pizzeria Mozza, would lend amusing support. That was the idea. This is the reality: Osteria Mozza, after extensive construction and repeated delays, still isn’t open. July, Ms. Silverton promises, but does it matter? Pizzeria Mozza began serving lunch and dinner in November and became so madly popular and widely revered that food lovers in Los Angeles and elsewhere stopped asking when, oh when, Ms. Silverton’s proper restaurant would be ready. Instead they asked how, oh how, they could land a table at her pizza joint. It accepts reservations up to a month in advance and pretty much books up a month in advance. Some entertainment-industry bigwigs have their secretaries set up a reservation a week, while others sidestep the craziness and crowds by doing takeout. When I spoke to Ms. Silverton on the phone recently, she said that she had made a to-go order for early that day and one for later on. She sounded exhausted and, well, baffled. “It’s a small, little, loud restaurant, right?” she said, adding that she “never, ever, ever, ever” expected this kind of reaction. The instant and outsize swoon over Mozza owes something to the reputation she made for herself at La Brea Bakery and the restaurant Campanile. It’s fueled by the long-distance involvement of the New York chef Mario Batali and his frequent collaborator, Joseph Bastianich, who are partners in Mozza, their first West Coast venture. And it reflects the spread of a certain kind of haute pizza culture across the country. In growing numbers, serious chefs and bakers are making — and the food cognoscenti are devouring — exemplary pies inspired at least loosely by the thin-crust pizza of Naples. Usually measuring 10 to 12 inches in diameter, they’re sculptured from dough that’s been lovingly tended by the pizzaioli themselves and cooked at blazingly high temperatures in wood-burning ovens of Italian design. You can find them in Manhattan at Una Pizza Napoletana, in Chicago at Spacca Napoli and in Phoenix at Pizzeria Bianco, whose chef and owner, Chris Bianco, is the unofficial godfather of this movement. And you can find them in Los Angeles at Mozza, where they were greeted with so much excitement that The Los Angeles Times didn’t wait for the rest of the restaurant to weigh in with a review. The newspaper awarded the pizzeria a head-turning three out of four stars under the headline: “Hot spot? Mozza is on fire.” To get into Mozza on a recent night, I booked about three weeks ahead and had to accept a 5 p.m. dinner reservation: anything at a saner hour was long gone. Mozza is open daily from noon to midnight, and when I arrived it was two-thirds full. By 5:45, there wasn’t an empty seat. By 6:30, the area just inside the door was jammed with people waiting for one of 40 reserved spots at tables or one of 20 counter perches — half at a wine bar, half facing the pizza oven — that are distributed on a first-come-first-served basis. As my friends and I worked our way through several rounds of antipasti, I noticed a woman with tiger-stripe pants and a beehive hairdo just a few tables away. Then I noticed her pizza, which managed to make an even more compelling visual statement, its crust a veritable topography of canyons and buttes. John Ford could have shot a miniature Western on one of Ms. Silverton’s pies. The woman and I swapped smiles, a familiar wordless exchange between two food adventurers thrilled to be exploring a coveted frontier. She held my gaze as she lifted a slice of pizza and took a bite. Then, after a slow-motion, self-consciously dramatic chew or two, she nodded and flashed me an “O.K.” sign. The pizza passed muster. I’ll say. Ms. Silverton, who started her career as a pastry chef and is an accomplished baker, makes crusts with extraordinary character: softly chewy in spots, crisply charred in others, ever so faintly sweet, even more faintly sour. There’s some rye flour in her dough and some malt, and she lets it sit for 36 hours before she uses it. Next Article in Dining & Wine (2 of 17) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Square Feet; In Los Angeles, a Gehry-Designed Awakening IN TRANSIT; Michelin Guides to Rate More American Cities NEXT STOP: CULVER CITY, CALIF.; Art and Food Turn a Nowhere Into a Somewhere SURFACING | Los Angeles; Where Stars Are in the Kitchen Next Article in Dining & Wine (2 of 17) &#x00bb; A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://events.nytimes.com/2007/05/09/dining/reviews/09rest.html	The New York Times &#62; Craftsteak Restaurant Review &#62; New York City Restaurant Reviews RESTAURANT REVIEW | CRAFTSTEAK A Chef With Swagger Can Nurture, Too Evan Sung for The New York Times JUST HAD A LITTLE WORK DONE At Craftsteak, Tom Colicchio has made changes to both the staff and the steaks. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 9, 2007 HE’S a showboat, that’s for sure. You don’t sign up for three seasons of the reality TV show “Top Chef” unless you relish the glow of the spotlight. And on some points he’s dogmatic. You don’t insist on roasting your steaks when everybody else is grilling or broiling theirs unless you’re convinced you’ve found the one true path. Skip to next paragraph Evan Sung for The New York Times But never let it be said that the chef Tom Colicchio is complacent. He’ll take a successful formula and tinker with it; he’ll take an unsuccessful formula and do much more than tinker. That restlessness is evident at Craftsteak and Craftbar, though these two Craft descendants haven’t benefited equally from it. Let’s start with the younger — and luckier — of the two. Just a year old, Craftsteak has undergone so many targeted and consequential changes that I feel compelled to update my initial review, which awarded it one star. It’s now much better. More important, it’s proof that a chef can disperse his energies across various projects, as Mr. Colicchio has, and still attend sufficiently to one of his neediest cases. He just has to be alert to problems, willing to acknowledge them and ready to take action. At Craftsteak Mr. Colicchio changed the chef de cuisine, putting Shane McBride in Chris Albrecht’s place. He changed meat suppliers. And he changed the way steaks were being cooked. In the beginning, the restaurant used a griddle to try to sear steaks, then put them in copper pans in the oven. But the sear wasn’t taking: The steaks weren’t any crisper on the outside than on the inside. They weren’t especially juicy, either. The raison d’être of the restaurant, they were actually its most glaring flaw. Craftsteak continues to roast them — Mr. Colicchio believes it prevents dryness — but before they go into the oven they spend time on top of it in their copper pans, on high heat, which is accomplishing what the griddle didn’t. The steaks now have a sear. I’d still prefer an actual char, but I can’t quibble with the degree of flavor coaxed from a strip steak of grass-fed Montana beef. The different nuances of grass-fed versus corn-fed beef — Craftsteak’s conceit remains the presentation of both kinds, along with wagyu beef and beef aged a little or a lot — came through much more clearly during recent visits than before. The strip had a pointed, appealing gaminess distinct from the round, rich taste of a porterhouse of corn-fed Nebraska beef that I tried on the same night. And all the meat is more tender and moist at the core. The improvement in the steaks has made it easier to appreciate the restaurant’s other virtues: the spaciousness and comfort of its handsome, dramatically scaled dining room; the unassailable quality of its raw bar selections; its gigantic, crunchy onion rings, some of the best in the city; its fried bone marrow appetizer, a decadence-squared dream. Drawbacks remain. If a strip steak that had supposedly been dry-aged for 56 days was any indication, the aging process at Craftsteak isn’t yielding ideally tangy results. The menu is sprawling to the point of self-parody: the side dishes alone number more than 40. It encourages over-ordering and sets up the possibility of a stratospheric bill. The cheapest steaks are $32, and that gets you only six ounces of filet. Craftbar, which opened in early 2002, has moved even further from its origins than Craftsteak, having traded its nest alongside Craft for greater independence a few blocks away. The relocation in mid-2005 gave Craftbar more room: about 175 seats, including those in a private dining room, versus just 70 or so before. But it took away some of the restaurant’s soul. The stark space it now inhabits has a grim industrial feel that works against the intended coziness of the predominantly Mediterranean cuisine: fried oysters with a celery root rémoulade; sweetbreads in a lemon and tuna sauce; bruschetta with fontina and hon shimeji mushrooms; bucatini with pancetta and an oozing egg; hanger steak with buttery puréed potatoes. And the restaurant’s greater chaos seems to be undercutting the service, which has a lurching quality, with bursts of attentiveness segueing into stretches of neglect. While the lower prices of a restaurant like Craftbar presage less coddling, the duck confit here would have to be $1.90 instead of $19 to justify the frowning grumpiness of the waiter who deigned to attend to us one night. Next Article in Dining & Wine (5 of 17) &#x00bb; Report a Problem Post (3.13 stars, 8 votes) Great Setting; Disappointing Food The room is lovely; the lounge area where we ate was relaxed and comfortably informal. If only the food were as comforting. We each ordered the 56 day aged NY strip. Though the steaks were cooked to order, they both came out close to room temperature. I tried to eat mine, my partner sent his back. His returned, again at close to room temperature. The manager insisted the kitchen make it right, so we waited for new steaks. The wait was so long the waiter offered us dessert menu's. When the steaks arrived, they were now hot but generally lacking in flavor. Brussel sprouts with bacon were great; a potato boulanger tasty enough but a bit bland. Wagyu tartare ($22) had too much liquid but one could tell the beef underneath was good. They really need to fix the food problems; room is great and the staff were really trying it appeared. I really debated between satisfactory or poor but gave them an upgrade to 'satisfactory' because of the room. Read All 2 Reader Reviews Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. FOOD STUFF; OFF THE MENU 3 Chefs Depart, 2 With Full Plates FOOD STUFF; OFF THE MENU FOOD STUFF; OFF THE MENU The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/09/dining/09mozz.html?ex=1336363200&en=84c7f54cf82294da&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	In Los Angeles, the Accidental Pizza Maker - New York Times In Los Angeles, the Accidental Pizza Maker Stephanie Diani for The New York Times From the counter at Pizzeria Mozza in Los Angeles, diners can watch pizzas being prepared and baked in a wood-burning oven. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 9, 2007 Skip to next paragraph Recipe: Butterscotch Budino With Caramel Sauce Stephanie Diani for The New York Times Nancy Silverton at Pizzeria Mozza. A FUNNY thing happened on Nancy Silverton’s way to opening a new Italian restaurant here. Actually, a doughy, cheesy, wonderful thing happened, and neither she nor Los Angeles may ever be quite the same. Looking for the right spot for her restaurant, she homed in on one that happened to have a pizzeria attached to it. And it hit her: pizzas. She should do pizzas herself. She should do them in this annex, next to the rest of her operation, because the space was already set up that way, with the right kind of wood-burning oven right where an oven should be. Her restaurant, Osteria Mozza, would be the star. Its scrappy sibling, Pizzeria Mozza, would lend amusing support. That was the idea. This is the reality: Osteria Mozza, after extensive construction and repeated delays, still isn’t open. July, Ms. Silverton promises, but does it matter? Pizzeria Mozza began serving lunch and dinner in November and became so madly popular and widely revered that food lovers in Los Angeles and elsewhere stopped asking when, oh when, Ms. Silverton’s proper restaurant would be ready. Instead they asked how, oh how, they could land a table at her pizza joint. It accepts reservations up to a month in advance and pretty much books up a month in advance. Some entertainment-industry bigwigs have their secretaries set up a reservation a week, while others sidestep the craziness and crowds by doing takeout. When I spoke to Ms. Silverton on the phone recently, she said that she had made a to-go order for early that day and one for later on. She sounded exhausted and, well, baffled. “It’s a small, little, loud restaurant, right?” she said, adding that she “never, ever, ever, ever” expected this kind of reaction. The instant and outsize swoon over Mozza owes something to the reputation she made for herself at La Brea Bakery and the restaurant Campanile. It’s fueled by the long-distance involvement of the New York chef Mario Batali and his frequent collaborator, Joseph Bastianich, who are partners in Mozza, their first West Coast venture. And it reflects the spread of a certain kind of haute pizza culture across the country. In growing numbers, serious chefs and bakers are making — and the food cognoscenti are devouring — exemplary pies inspired at least loosely by the thin-crust pizza of Naples. Usually measuring 10 to 12 inches in diameter, they’re sculptured from dough that’s been lovingly tended by the pizzaioli themselves and cooked at blazingly high temperatures in wood-burning ovens of Italian design. You can find them in Manhattan at Una Pizza Napoletana, in Chicago at Spacca Napoli and in Phoenix at Pizzeria Bianco, whose chef and owner, Chris Bianco, is the unofficial godfather of this movement. And you can find them in Los Angeles at Mozza, where they were greeted with so much excitement that The Los Angeles Times didn’t wait for the rest of the restaurant to weigh in with a review. The newspaper awarded the pizzeria a head-turning three out of four stars under the headline: “Hot spot? Mozza is on fire.” To get into Mozza on a recent night, I booked about three weeks ahead and had to accept a 5 p.m. dinner reservation: anything at a saner hour was long gone. Mozza is open daily from noon to midnight, and when I arrived it was two-thirds full. By 5:45, there wasn’t an empty seat. By 6:30, the area just inside the door was jammed with people waiting for one of 40 reserved spots at tables or one of 20 counter perches — half at a wine bar, half facing the pizza oven — that are distributed on a first-come-first-served basis. As my friends and I worked our way through several rounds of antipasti, I noticed a woman with tiger-stripe pants and a beehive hairdo just a few tables away. Then I noticed her pizza, which managed to make an even more compelling visual statement, its crust a veritable topography of canyons and buttes. John Ford could have shot a miniature Western on one of Ms. Silverton’s pies. The woman and I swapped smiles, a familiar wordless exchange between two food adventurers thrilled to be exploring a coveted frontier. She held my gaze as she lifted a slice of pizza and took a bite. Then, after a slow-motion, self-consciously dramatic chew or two, she nodded and flashed me an “O.K.” sign. The pizza passed muster. I’ll say. Ms. Silverton, who started her career as a pastry chef and is an accomplished baker, makes crusts with extraordinary character: softly chewy in spots, crisply charred in others, ever so faintly sweet, even more faintly sour. There’s some rye flour in her dough and some malt, and she lets it sit for 36 hours before she uses it. Next Article in Dining & Wine (2 of 17) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Square Feet; In Los Angeles, a Gehry-Designed Awakening IN TRANSIT; Michelin Guides to Rate More American Cities NEXT STOP: CULVER CITY, CALIF.; Art and Food Turn a Nowhere Into a Somewhere SURFACING | Los Angeles; Where Stars Are in the Kitchen Next Article in Dining & Wine (2 of 17) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/pages/dining/index.html	Dining & Wine - New York Times A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Tony Cenicola/The New York Times See a key to the items in this photograph Gorgeous, name-brand pots, pans and gadgets sure are nice, but are they necessary? No, and here’s how a good cook can outfit an entire kitchen for under $300. Video: Kitchen Starter Kit Less Green at the Farmers’ Market New efforts to encourage food-aid recipients to eat more locally grown fruits and vegetables could end up shutting out the small farmers who are the backbone of these markets. In Los Angeles, the Accidental Pizza Maker As Nancy Silverton prepared to open her restaurant Mozza, a pizzeria annex was almost an afterthought. Now the parlor is one of the hottest reservations in Los Angeles A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills By JOHN T. EDGE They are either the worst thing to happen to pickles or a particularly brave new taste sensation, but Kool-Aid dills are now popular in the Mississippi Delta. The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? Is it safe to eat a piece of food that fell to the floor but was picked up in less that five seconds? Scientists recently put the five-second rule through some microbiology paces. A Chef With Swagger Can Nurture, Too Frank Bruni dines at Craftbar, the easygoing companion of Tom Colicchio’s Craft, and revisits Craftsteak, which has changed its approach to preparing beef. Where the Homework Is a Pleasure In this update on his April article about a do-it-yourself method of learning about wine, Eric Asimov reports on what he has found while making his way through two mixed cases. Hot, Hotter, Hottest: Fire From France To make a zippy, sinus-clearing dressing for leeks, find the brightest yellow Dijon mustard you can find and then add a lot of it. Prim but Satisfying, Venerable Sweets From Milan Chocolates for Mother’s Day, drop-in help for those without cooks and delicate petals of dried olive tapenade with a multitude of potential uses. New York Makes a Strong Showing at the James Beard Awards The move of the awards this year to Lincoln Center added glamour to a major culinary event and the “best chef New York City” award was given to David Waltuck of Chanterelle. Dining Briefs: Spotlight Live and Pio Pio Salon A look at two new restaurants: Spotlight Live, which channels “American Idol,” and Pio Pio Salon, a Peruvian spot on Amsterdam Avenue. Waiters Claim Harassment at Mr. Chow Three former employees of Michael Chow’s elegant Chinese restaurants have filed a lawsuit filled with bizarre allegations. ‘Top Chef’ Dreams Crushed by Student Loan Debt For would-be top chefs, there are few jobs that pay enough for them to retire their student loans. To Study Wine, Buy and Drink The best place to learn about wine, says Eric Asimov, is at home and this do-it-yourself method works for anyone who loves wine, including beginners. The Heel Is Rising Apulia, at the bottom of the Italian boot, has farmhouses turned into luxury hotels, compelling Baroque churches and a cuisine worth savoring. Just don't call it the next Tuscany. Audio Slide Show: Return to Apulia Food: The Way We Eat Looking at ‘‘The Silver Palate Cookbook’’ on its silver anniversary. 'The Joy of Drinking' Reviewed by ROBERT R. HARRIS A history of our long love affair with drinking. Hawking Hot Dogs: Some Are All-Stars and Then There’s ... By HARRY HURT III The New York Mets were warming up to play and I was warming up to sell a food item as famously American as baseball and apple pie. Video: Hawking Hot Dogs Letters to the Editor Living | Spring 2007 It's all about extreme grilling, good-humored ice cream and molecular mixology. Get the recipe for all the fixings of a delicious summer in the latest installment of T: Style. Go to T: Style Magazine » In his latest post, Frank Bruni discusses the restaurant Mozza in Los Angeles. Go to Blog » , Eric Asimov ponders terroir. Go to Blog » A slew of new restaurants are opening this week, including China de Puebla, Perilla, Saucy and Nelson Blue. Recipe: Butterscotch Budino With Caramel Sauce Recipe: Extra-Sharp Leeks Vinaigrette Times food columnist Mark Bittman, a k a The Minimalist, outfits a kitchen with the basics for less than $300. Frank Bruni talks about the rustic region of Apulia on the heel of Italy's boot. From Deli to Gourmet Enterprise The founders of Zingerman's Delicatessen in Ann Arbor, Mich., have expanded through a carefully thought out 12-year plan to build a mini food empire. Connecticut: White Peach Restaurant Long Island: Sea Levels Long Island Vines: Clovis Point and Medolla Vineyards Frank Bruni discusses restaurants and dining trends in New York City. Eric Asimov, chief wine critic, on recent tastings and trends. MOST POPULAR - STYLE The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? Faster Fashion, Cheaper Chic In the Garden: It Takes a Hammer to Grow This Salad A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Critic’s Notebook: In Los Angeles, the Accidental Pizza Maker Fitness: The Yoga Therapist Will See You Now Tribute: The Woman No Hat Could Tame Fitness: A Healthy Mix of Rest and Motion Go to Complete List » You Do the Math Go to Complete List » Find home & garden professionals in your area today In Home & Garden: View all Home & Garden Classifieds Post Your Ad Now! A Spin on the Ferry, 1964 Get what’s cooking at your door. Get The Times delivered at 50% off. Tell us your nursing story. Inspiration & lessons. What’s new on Broadway? What’s new in technology? See what’s cooking out or at home for $3.15 a week. Browse movie reviews from 1913. Buy, sell or research a car. The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/opinion/10kummer.html?ex=1336449600&en=295532d6b5d0c0d3&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Less Green at the Farmers&#8217; Market - New York Times Less Green at the Farmers’ Market Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 Skip to next paragraph IN the five years since the last farm bill was passed, the number of farmers’ markets in this country has grown to nearly 4,500 from 2,750, gladdening the hearts of foodies who like nothing better than seeing locally grown Chioggia beets, butter radishes, Early Girl tomatoes, miniature pattypan squash, chervil, fresh goat cheese logs and duck breast in a conveniently located market. Some of the best customers of farmers’ markets, though, haven’t been free-spending foodies, but food-aid recipients. Happily, the new farm bill before Congress has several proposals to vastly increase food aid to the poor, including two programs that allow them to buy at farmers’ markets. That normally would be great for small farmers. Without the guaranteed income from the farm bill’s $15 million Seniors Farmers’ Market Nutrition Program and the separate $25 million Farmers’ Market Nutrition Program (part of the food aid program for families known as WIC), some small growers would be out of business, and many others would be reluctant to sell in low-income neighborhoods where fresh produce is otherwise a rarity — “food deserts.” But, it turns out, new efforts to encourage food-aid recipients to eat more fruits and vegetables — which are calamitously underrepresented in American diets — could end up shutting out the small farmers who are the backbone of these markets. The Agriculture Department has proposed rules that would reallocate WIC benefits now restricted to eggs and dairy products, which have long enjoyed the muscle of well-financed lobbies, to fruits and vegetables, which haven’t. Millions of children would be entitled to $6 a month for produce. And in its initial proposals for the new farm bill, the Bush administration suggested making available $200 million, starting next year, to buy fruits and vegetables for the poor. If such suggestions get approved, hundreds of millions more dollars could be spent every year on fresh produce. There’s a big catch, though: small farmers might not reap the windfall. Over the past 15 years, most states have switched from paper coupons for food stamps to debit cards, removing the stigma of redemption at the checkout counter. The WIC program, which still uses paper, will most likely do the same. Most farmers, of course, don’t take plastic — and, market managers say, they have seen their sales plummet with the switch from paper. The need for farmers to enter the cashless economy is obvious. Wireless card readers will benefit both people on food assistance and foodies who (like me) don’t carry all the cash they end up eager to spend. But who will pay for the machines, which can cost as much as $1,500 and incur steep monthly service fees, not to mention workers trained to use them? Without card readers, farmers fear they will lose the bulk of the farm bill help they get now, and be shut out of those new hundreds of millions. The proposals at the Agriculture Department and in the farm bill would let food-aid recipients buy fruits and vegetables wherever they can find them. That means supermarkets — which remain the most convenient place to buy produce. Farmers’ market advocates are alarmed. The money will go to the centralized industrial farms that supply supermarkets, they say — the ones that crush small farmers and waste fuel. So: Help small farmers and the places dedicated to selling truly local food, or help the sharply increasing number of people struggling to feed themselves and their families? The most equitable way to help farmer’s markets may be to urge legislators to support good programs already in the farm bill, like the Farmers’ Market Promotion Program and Community Food Projects. These could equip farmers with card readers, an essential first step, and finance other ingenious projects to help small farmers thrive. Concerned cooks (and everyone else) should urge increases for education programs that tell people how and where to use food stamps. Only 56 percent of people eligible for food stamps get them, and most of those recipients don’t know that the stamps can be used at farmers’ markets. A reason often given for the great success of the WIC farmers’ market program is the nutrition education that comes with it. Yes, supermarkets may well get the great majority of increased benefits for fresh produce. But a small slice of a much larger pie could amount to as much as or more money than farmers’ markets now get from food-assistance programs. And the new money available for fruit and vegetables would mean that “specialty crops” — the kind we actually think of as food, as opposed to crops like corn, soy and cotton that get the much criticized multibillion-dollar commodity subsidies — would finally get support from the farm bill. More people would eat healthier diets, and farmers might start growing even better-tasting varieties, confident of finding a market. Many other programs proposed for the farm bill could bring locally grown food to places that want and need it, like schools and hospitals. But farmers’ markets are where the bill can best serve cooks — a frequently well-financed, always opinionated special-interest group that should start acting like one. Corby Kummer, a senior editor at The Atlantic Monthly, is the author of “The Pleasures of Slow Food.” More Articles in Opinion &#x00bb; To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Coveted, French, And Now in Tennessee Rise in Ethanol Raises Concerns About Corn as a Food The Seeds Of a Mission; Farmers Are Wooed To Help Food Makers Reduce Trans Fat Leveling the Indian Playing Field? More Articles in Opinion &#x00bb; Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/09/dining/09curi.html?ex=1336363200&en=241e6d2a12065c24&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? - New York Times The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 9, 2007 A COUPLE of weeks ago I saw a new scientific paper from that struck me as both pioneering and hilarious. Skip to next paragraph Accompanied by six graphs, two tables and equations whose terms include “bologna” and “carpet,” it’s a thorough microbiological study of the five-second rule: the idea that if you pick up a dropped piece of food before you can count to five, it’s O.K. to eat it. I first heard about the rule from my then-young children and thought it was just a way of having fun at snack time and lunch. My daughter now tells me that fun was part of it, but they knew they were playing with “germs.” We’re reminded about germs on food whenever there’s an outbreak of E. coli or salmonella, and whenever we read the labels on packages of uncooked meat. But we don’t have much occasion to think about the everyday practice of retrieving and eating dropped pieces of food. Microbes are everywhere around us, not just on floors. They thrive in wet kitchen sponges and end up on freshly wiped countertops. As I write this column, on an airplane, I realize that I have removed a chicken sandwich from its protective plastic sleeve and put it down repeatedly on the sleeve’s outer surface, which was meant to protect the sandwich by blocking microbes. What’s on the outer surface? Without the five-second rule on my mind I wouldn’t have thought to wonder. I learned from the Clemson study that the true pioneer of five-second research was Jillian Clarke, a high-school intern at the in 2003. Ms. Clarke conducted a survey and found that slightly more than half of the men and 70 percent of the women knew of the five-second rule, and many said they followed it. She did an experiment by contaminating ceramic tiles with E. coli, placing gummy bears and cookies on the tiles for the statutory five seconds, and then analyzing the foods. They had become contaminated with bacteria. For performing this first test of the five-second rule, Ms. Clarke was recognized by the Annals of Improbable Research with the 2004 Ig Nobel Prize in public health. It’s not surprising that food dropped onto bacteria would collect some bacteria. But how many? Does it collect more as the seconds tick by? Enough to make you sick? Prof. Paul L. Dawson and his colleagues at Clemson have now put some numbers on floor-to-food contamination. Their bacterium of choice was salmonella; the test surfaces were tile, wood flooring and nylon carpet; and the test foods were slices of bread and bologna. First the researchers measured how long bacteria could survive on the surfaces. They applied salmonella broth in doses of several million bacteria per square centimeter, a number typical of badly contaminated food. I had thought that most bacteria were sensitive to drying out, but after 24 hours of exposure to the air, thousands of bacteria per square centimeter had survived on the tile and wood, and tens of thousands on the carpet. Hundreds of salmonella were still alive after 28 days. Professor Dawson and colleagues then placed test food slices onto salmonella-painted surfaces for varying lengths of time, and counted how many live bacteria were transferred to the food. On surfaces that had been contaminated eight hours earlier, slices of bologna and bread left for five seconds took up from 150 to 8,000 bacteria. Left for a full minute, slices collected about 10 times more than that from the tile and carpet, though a lower number from the wood. What do these numbers tell us about the five-second rule? Quick retrieval does mean fewer bacteria, but it’s no guarantee of safety. True, Jillian Clarke found that the number of bacteria on the floor at the University of Illinois was so low it couldn’t be measured, and the Clemson researchers resorted to extremely high contamination levels for their tests. But even if a floor — or a countertop, or wrapper — carried only a thousandth the number of bacteria applied by the researchers, the piece of food would be likely to pick up several bacteria. The infectious dose, the smallest number of bacteria that can actually cause illness, is as few as 10 for some salmonellas, fewer than 100 for the deadly strain of E. coli. Of course we can never know for sure how many harmful microbes there are on any surface. But we know enough now to formulate the five-second rule, version 2.0: If you drop a piece of food, pick it up quickly, take five seconds to recall that just a few bacteria can make you sick, then take a few more to think about where you dropped it and whether or not it’s worth eating. Next Article in Dining & Wine (4 of 17) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. F.D.A. Says Livestock Were Fed Pet Food With Suspect Chemical China Yields To Inquiry On Pet Food Tainted Pet Food Is Said to Be Still on Shelves Some Suspect Chemical Mix In Pet Food Food Contamination and Poisoning Next Article in Dining & Wine (4 of 17) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/09/dining/09kool.html?ex=1336363200&en=7a27f33dc04d4371&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills - New York Times A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Tony Cenicola/The New York Times Sign In to E-Mail or Save This By JOHN T. EDGE Published: May 9, 2007 Skip to next paragraph Kate Medley for The New York Times Kate Medley for The New York Times FOR KIDS YOUNG AND OLD Beverly Boddie would like to trademark the Kool-Aid pickles she makes and sells at her grocery store in Cleveland, Miss. Kate Medley for The New York Times Green and red ones are her specialty. A GALLON jar of pickles sits near the register at Lee’s Washerette and Food Market, a mustard-colored cinder-block bunker on the western fringe of this Mississippi Delta town. Those pickles were once mere dills. They were once green. Their exteriors remain pebbly, a reminder that long ago they began their lives on a farm, on the ground, as cucumbers. But they now have an arresting color that combines green and garnet, and a bracing sour-sweet taste that they owe to a long marinade in cherry or tropical fruit or strawberry Kool-Aid. Kool-Aid pickles violate tradition, maybe even propriety. Depending on your palate and perspective, they are either the worst thing to happen to pickles since plastic brining barrels or a brave new taste sensation to be celebrated. The pickles have been spotted as far afield as Dallas and St. Louis, but their cult is thickest in the Delta region, among the black majority population. In the Delta, where they fetch between 50 cents and a dollar, Kool-Aid pickles have earned valued space next to such beloved snacks as pickled eggs and pigs’ feet at community fairs, convenience stores and filling stations. And as their appeal has widened, some people have seen a good business opportunity. Even the lawyers have gotten involved. Children are the primary consumers, but a recent trip through the region revealed that the market for Kool-Aid pickles is maturing. At Carver Upper Elementary School in Indianola, students in Jodi Sumner’s third-grade class have no reservations about the propriety of cucumbers flavored with vinegar and drink mix. When this writer, lugging a jar of tropical-fruit-flavored pickles, recently asked the 29 students who liked to eat Kool-Aid pickles, 29 hands shot up. The names came fast: Ladarius, Fredericka and Kobreana, among others. So did the impressions: “It’s a candy pickle.” And “I like it the same as dipping hot Cheetos in ice cream.” And “Have you ever tried one with a watermelon Blow Pop?” followed by a pantomime of how the Blow Pop stick can be inserted so that the candy appears as a knob at one end of the pickle, allowing the eater to alternate between bites of sour-sweet pickle and licks of sweet-sour Blow Pop. Nobody knows just who first decided that pickles would be improved by a bath in sugared drink mix, or when, but the invention seems to be of fairly recent provenance. Typically, Kool-Aid pickle fans were born some time after moved into the White House. Billie Williams, 56, a special-education teacher at Carver Elementary, never saw one when she was a child. But she did eat dill pickles impaled on peppermint sticks, and she remembers how friends sucked the juice from cut lemons through peppermint sticks repurposed as straws. “That’s the same kind of taste,” she said. “Same as how they used to dip pickle spears in dry Kool-Aid mix for that pucker.” The school sells Kool-Aid pickles from the popular red flavor family at its fund-raisers. “They’re easy to make a gallon,” Ms. Williams said. “You pull the pickles from the jar, cut them in halves, make double-strength Kool-Aid, add a pound of sugar, shake and let it sit — best in the refrigerator — for about a week. The taste takes to anything. A while back I made a mistake and bought a jar of pickle chips instead of halves or wholes. Came out fine. This whole Kool-Aid pickle thing is going so good, you wonder why somebody hasn’t put a patent on them.” No patent application has been filed, but the name Kool-Aid is a trademark owned by Kraft Foods. Upon learning of the pickles, Bridget MacConnell, a senior manager of corporate affairs at Kraft, recovered, and then pronounced, “We endorse our consumers’ finding innovative ways to use our products.” Most of the children at Carver — perhaps most of the children in the Delta — buy their Kool-Aid pickles from unlicensed house stores, operated by neighborhood elders who, seated at their kitchen tables, sell snacks and chips and candy to anyone who comes knocking. (If these folks sold whiskey instead of pickles, their enterprises would be known as shot houses.) Ms. Sumner’s students praised in particular “the lady on Quick Circle whose dogs bark when you walk up” and “the woman who stays on Slim Street who sells nachos, too.” At the Stephensville Mini-Mart, set amid the cotton fields and catfish ponds between Shaw and Indianola, the owner, Hugh Davis, began stocking Kool-Aid pickles earlier this year at the behest of local children. “They’re not for me,” said Mr. Davis, 66. “It’s the kids who’ve done it. They’ll create a line of food for you; they’ll dab a little something here and there and make it their own. They’re good at inventing.” Recently, some Delta grocers began selling jars of ready-made pickles. And entrepreneurs are emerging. At Lambard’s Wholesale Meats in Cleveland, Allen Williams sells plastic gallon jugs of Best Maid dills, plastered with the Kool-Aid packs that denote the flavor within. (Mr. Williams declined to reveal who actually makes his Kool-Aid pickles.) Across town at Eastend Grocery, Beverly and Claud Boddie stand behind their products. They have honed proprietary recipes for green and red flavors that involve piercing the pickles with a fork and stirring together multiple Kool-Aid flavors to achieve maximum pucker. Ms. Boddie, 37, wants to apply for a trademark as “soon as I can raise some money and settle on a name.” She’d better get a move on. Double Quick, the Indianola-based chain of more than 30 Delta convenience stores (famous in some circles for a singing group, the Double Quick Gospel Choir, composed of store managers and supervisors), has begun pursuing a trademark for Koolickle, a name coined by Rick Beuning, its director of food service. “I’m a white boy from the Midwest,” said Mr. Beuning, 53. “This isn’t my food, but I know a good product when I see one.” Next Article in Dining & Wine (3 of 17) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. QUICK BITE | Riverside; A Quick and Tasty Trip to Tokyo DINING/WESTPORT; For an Indian Standby, New Name, Added Variety THE WAY WE LIVE NOW: 2-11-07: DOMAINS; The Restaurant Moguls Retreat Next Article in Dining & Wine (3 of 17) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Find home & garden professionals in your area today In Home & Garden: View all Home & Garden Classifieds Post Your Ad Now! Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/09/dining/09kool.html	A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills - New York Times A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Tony Cenicola/The New York Times Sign In to E-Mail or Save This By JOHN T. EDGE Published: May 9, 2007 Skip to next paragraph Kate Medley for The New York Times Kate Medley for The New York Times FOR KIDS YOUNG AND OLD Beverly Boddie would like to trademark the Kool-Aid pickles she makes and sells at her grocery store in Cleveland, Miss. Kate Medley for The New York Times Green and red ones are her specialty. A GALLON jar of pickles sits near the register at Lee’s Washerette and Food Market, a mustard-colored cinder-block bunker on the western fringe of this Mississippi Delta town. Those pickles were once mere dills. They were once green. Their exteriors remain pebbly, a reminder that long ago they began their lives on a farm, on the ground, as cucumbers. But they now have an arresting color that combines green and garnet, and a bracing sour-sweet taste that they owe to a long marinade in cherry or tropical fruit or strawberry Kool-Aid. Kool-Aid pickles violate tradition, maybe even propriety. Depending on your palate and perspective, they are either the worst thing to happen to pickles since plastic brining barrels or a brave new taste sensation to be celebrated. The pickles have been spotted as far afield as Dallas and St. Louis, but their cult is thickest in the Delta region, among the black majority population. In the Delta, where they fetch between 50 cents and a dollar, Kool-Aid pickles have earned valued space next to such beloved snacks as pickled eggs and pigs’ feet at community fairs, convenience stores and filling stations. And as their appeal has widened, some people have seen a good business opportunity. Even the lawyers have gotten involved. Children are the primary consumers, but a recent trip through the region revealed that the market for Kool-Aid pickles is maturing. At Carver Upper Elementary School in Indianola, students in Jodi Sumner’s third-grade class have no reservations about the propriety of cucumbers flavored with vinegar and drink mix. When this writer, lugging a jar of tropical-fruit-flavored pickles, recently asked the 29 students who liked to eat Kool-Aid pickles, 29 hands shot up. The names came fast: Ladarius, Fredericka and Kobreana, among others. So did the impressions: “It’s a candy pickle.” And “I like it the same as dipping hot Cheetos in ice cream.” And “Have you ever tried one with a watermelon Blow Pop?” followed by a pantomime of how the Blow Pop stick can be inserted so that the candy appears as a knob at one end of the pickle, allowing the eater to alternate between bites of sour-sweet pickle and licks of sweet-sour Blow Pop. Nobody knows just who first decided that pickles would be improved by a bath in sugared drink mix, or when, but the invention seems to be of fairly recent provenance. Typically, Kool-Aid pickle fans were born some time after moved into the White House. Billie Williams, 56, a special-education teacher at Carver Elementary, never saw one when she was a child. But she did eat dill pickles impaled on peppermint sticks, and she remembers how friends sucked the juice from cut lemons through peppermint sticks repurposed as straws. “That’s the same kind of taste,” she said. “Same as how they used to dip pickle spears in dry Kool-Aid mix for that pucker.” The school sells Kool-Aid pickles from the popular red flavor family at its fund-raisers. “They’re easy to make a gallon,” Ms. Williams said. “You pull the pickles from the jar, cut them in halves, make double-strength Kool-Aid, add a pound of sugar, shake and let it sit — best in the refrigerator — for about a week. The taste takes to anything. A while back I made a mistake and bought a jar of pickle chips instead of halves or wholes. Came out fine. This whole Kool-Aid pickle thing is going so good, you wonder why somebody hasn’t put a patent on them.” No patent application has been filed, but the name Kool-Aid is a trademark owned by Kraft Foods. Upon learning of the pickles, Bridget MacConnell, a senior manager of corporate affairs at Kraft, recovered, and then pronounced, “We endorse our consumers’ finding innovative ways to use our products.” Most of the children at Carver — perhaps most of the children in the Delta — buy their Kool-Aid pickles from unlicensed house stores, operated by neighborhood elders who, seated at their kitchen tables, sell snacks and chips and candy to anyone who comes knocking. (If these folks sold whiskey instead of pickles, their enterprises would be known as shot houses.) Ms. Sumner’s students praised in particular “the lady on Quick Circle whose dogs bark when you walk up” and “the woman who stays on Slim Street who sells nachos, too.” At the Stephensville Mini-Mart, set amid the cotton fields and catfish ponds between Shaw and Indianola, the owner, Hugh Davis, began stocking Kool-Aid pickles earlier this year at the behest of local children. “They’re not for me,” said Mr. Davis, 66. “It’s the kids who’ve done it. They’ll create a line of food for you; they’ll dab a little something here and there and make it their own. They’re good at inventing.” Recently, some Delta grocers began selling jars of ready-made pickles. And entrepreneurs are emerging. At Lambard’s Wholesale Meats in Cleveland, Allen Williams sells plastic gallon jugs of Best Maid dills, plastered with the Kool-Aid packs that denote the flavor within. (Mr. Williams declined to reveal who actually makes his Kool-Aid pickles.) Across town at Eastend Grocery, Beverly and Claud Boddie stand behind their products. They have honed proprietary recipes for green and red flavors that involve piercing the pickles with a fork and stirring together multiple Kool-Aid flavors to achieve maximum pucker. Ms. Boddie, 37, wants to apply for a trademark as “soon as I can raise some money and settle on a name.” She’d better get a move on. Double Quick, the Indianola-based chain of more than 30 Delta convenience stores (famous in some circles for a singing group, the Double Quick Gospel Choir, composed of store managers and supervisors), has begun pursuing a trademark for Koolickle, a name coined by Rick Beuning, its director of food service. “I’m a white boy from the Midwest,” said Mr. Beuning, 53. “This isn’t my food, but I know a good product when I see one.” Next Article in Dining & Wine (3 of 17) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. QUICK BITE | Riverside; A Quick and Tasty Trip to Tokyo DINING/WESTPORT; For an Indian Standby, New Name, Added Variety THE WAY WE LIVE NOW: 2-11-07: DOMAINS; The Restaurant Moguls Retreat Next Article in Dining & Wine (3 of 17) &#x00bb; A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/09/dining/09mini.html?ex=1336363200&en=e39f14d761f1b0bc&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks - New York Times A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Tony Cenicola/The New York Times See a key to the items in this photograph Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 9, 2007 THE question I’m asked more often than any other is, “What kitchen equipment should I buy?” Skip to next paragraph Tony Cenicola/The New York Times 10-inch nonstick frying pan, $12.95. Like cookbooks, kitchen equipment is a talisman; people believe that buying the right kind will make them good cooks. Yet some of the best cooks I’ve known worked with a battered batterie de cuisine: dented pots and pans scarred beyond recognition, an old steak knife turned into an all-purpose tool, a pot lid held just so to strain pasta when the colander was missing, a food processor with a busted switch. They didn’t complain and they didn’t apologize; they just cooked. But famous TV chefs use gorgeous name-brand equipment, you might say. And you’d be right. But a.) they get much of that stuff free, the manufacturers hoping that placing it in the hands of a well-known chef will make you think it’s essential; b.) they want their equipment to be pretty, so you’ll think they’re important; and c.) see above: a costly knife is not a talisman and you are not a TV chef. Finally (and this is crucial), the best chefs may use the best-looking equipment when they are in public view, but when it is time to buy equipment for the people who actually prepare those $200 restaurant meals, they go to a restaurant supply house to shop for the everyday cookware I recommend to people all the time. In fact, I contend that with a bit of savvy, patience and a willingness to forgo steel-handle knives, copper pots and other extravagant items, $200 can equip a basic kitchen that will be adequate for just about any task, and $300 can equip one quite well. To prove my point I put together a list of everything needed for almost any cooking task. I bought most of the equipment at Bowery Restaurant Supply, 183 Bowery Street (Delancey Street), where the bill came to just about $200. Throw in a few items the store didn’t have and a few extras, and the total would be about $300. (New York happens to have scores of restaurant supply shops, but every metropolitan area has at least one.) I started with an eight-inch, plastic-handle stainless alloy chef’s knife for $10. This is probably the most essential tool in the kitchen. People not only obsess about knives (and write entire articles about them), but you can easily spend over $100 on just one. Yet go into any restaurant kitchen and you will see most of the cooks using this same plastic-handle Dexter-Russell tool. (Go to the wrong store and you’ll spend $20 or even $30 on the same knife.) I found an instant-read thermometer, a necessity for beginning cooks and obsessive-compulsives, for $5. Three stainless steel bowls — not gorgeous and maybe a little thin — set me back about $5. You are reading that right. Sturdy tongs, an underappreciated tool: $3.50 (don’t buy them too long, make sure the spring is nice and tight, and don’t shop for them at a “culinary” store, where they’ll cost four times as much). For less than $6 I picked up a sturdy sheet pan. It’s not an ideal cookie sheet but it’s useful for roasting and baking (not a bad tray, either, and one of the more common items in restaurant kitchens). A plastic cutting board was about the same price. For aesthetic purposes I’d rather have wood, but plastic can go into the dishwasher. At $3, a paring knife was so cheap I could replace it every year or two. I splurged on a Japanese mandoline for $25. (It’s not indispensable, but since my knife skills are pathetic, I use mine whenever I want thin, even slices or a real julienne.) You, or the college graduate you are thinking of, might own some of the things I bought: a $4 can opener; a vegetable peeler (I like the U-shaped type, which cost me $3); a colander ($7, and I probably could’ve gotten one cheaper). You are thinking to yourself: “Humph. He’s ignoring pots and pans, the most expensive items of all.” Au contraire, my friend; I bought five, and I could live with four (though I’d rather have six): a small, medium and large cast-aluminum saucepan (total: about $30); a medium nonstick cast aluminum pan (10-inch; $13); and a large steep-sided, heavier duty steel pan (14-inch; $25). I bought a single lid ($5; I often use plates or whatever’s handy for lids because I can never find the right one anyway). Next Article in Dining & Wine (1 of 17) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. HABITATS/Brooklyn Heights; 4-Star Dinners Conjured From A 1-Star Kitchen THE MEDIA EQUATION; Rachael Ray Gives the Gift Of Time Top of the Food Chain Next Article in Dining & Wine (1 of 17) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/opinion/10kummer.html	Less Green at the Farmers&#8217; Market - New York Times Less Green at the Farmers’ Market Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 Skip to next paragraph IN the five years since the last farm bill was passed, the number of farmers’ markets in this country has grown to nearly 4,500 from 2,750, gladdening the hearts of foodies who like nothing better than seeing locally grown Chioggia beets, butter radishes, Early Girl tomatoes, miniature pattypan squash, chervil, fresh goat cheese logs and duck breast in a conveniently located market. Some of the best customers of farmers’ markets, though, haven’t been free-spending foodies, but food-aid recipients. Happily, the new farm bill before Congress has several proposals to vastly increase food aid to the poor, including two programs that allow them to buy at farmers’ markets. That normally would be great for small farmers. Without the guaranteed income from the farm bill’s $15 million Seniors Farmers’ Market Nutrition Program and the separate $25 million Farmers’ Market Nutrition Program (part of the food aid program for families known as WIC), some small growers would be out of business, and many others would be reluctant to sell in low-income neighborhoods where fresh produce is otherwise a rarity — “food deserts.” But, it turns out, new efforts to encourage food-aid recipients to eat more fruits and vegetables — which are calamitously underrepresented in American diets — could end up shutting out the small farmers who are the backbone of these markets. The Agriculture Department has proposed rules that would reallocate WIC benefits now restricted to eggs and dairy products, which have long enjoyed the muscle of well-financed lobbies, to fruits and vegetables, which haven’t. Millions of children would be entitled to $6 a month for produce. And in its initial proposals for the new farm bill, the Bush administration suggested making available $200 million, starting next year, to buy fruits and vegetables for the poor. If such suggestions get approved, hundreds of millions more dollars could be spent every year on fresh produce. There’s a big catch, though: small farmers might not reap the windfall. Over the past 15 years, most states have switched from paper coupons for food stamps to debit cards, removing the stigma of redemption at the checkout counter. The WIC program, which still uses paper, will most likely do the same. Most farmers, of course, don’t take plastic — and, market managers say, they have seen their sales plummet with the switch from paper. The need for farmers to enter the cashless economy is obvious. Wireless card readers will benefit both people on food assistance and foodies who (like me) don’t carry all the cash they end up eager to spend. But who will pay for the machines, which can cost as much as $1,500 and incur steep monthly service fees, not to mention workers trained to use them? Without card readers, farmers fear they will lose the bulk of the farm bill help they get now, and be shut out of those new hundreds of millions. The proposals at the Agriculture Department and in the farm bill would let food-aid recipients buy fruits and vegetables wherever they can find them. That means supermarkets — which remain the most convenient place to buy produce. Farmers’ market advocates are alarmed. The money will go to the centralized industrial farms that supply supermarkets, they say — the ones that crush small farmers and waste fuel. So: Help small farmers and the places dedicated to selling truly local food, or help the sharply increasing number of people struggling to feed themselves and their families? The most equitable way to help farmer’s markets may be to urge legislators to support good programs already in the farm bill, like the Farmers’ Market Promotion Program and Community Food Projects. These could equip farmers with card readers, an essential first step, and finance other ingenious projects to help small farmers thrive. Concerned cooks (and everyone else) should urge increases for education programs that tell people how and where to use food stamps. Only 56 percent of people eligible for food stamps get them, and most of those recipients don’t know that the stamps can be used at farmers’ markets. A reason often given for the great success of the WIC farmers’ market program is the nutrition education that comes with it. Yes, supermarkets may well get the great majority of increased benefits for fresh produce. But a small slice of a much larger pie could amount to as much as or more money than farmers’ markets now get from food-assistance programs. And the new money available for fruit and vegetables would mean that “specialty crops” — the kind we actually think of as food, as opposed to crops like corn, soy and cotton that get the much criticized multibillion-dollar commodity subsidies — would finally get support from the farm bill. More people would eat healthier diets, and farmers might start growing even better-tasting varieties, confident of finding a market. Many other programs proposed for the farm bill could bring locally grown food to places that want and need it, like schools and hospitals. But farmers’ markets are where the bill can best serve cooks — a frequently well-financed, always opinionated special-interest group that should start acting like one. Corby Kummer, a senior editor at The Atlantic Monthly, is the author of “The Pleasures of Slow Food.” More Articles in Opinion &#x00bb; To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Coveted, French, And Now in Tennessee Rise in Ethanol Raises Concerns About Corn as a Food The Seeds Of a Mission; Farmers Are Wooed To Help Food Makers Reduce Trans Fat Leveling the Indian Playing Field? More Articles in Opinion &#x00bb; Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/09/dining/09curi.html	The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? - New York Times The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 9, 2007 A COUPLE of weeks ago I saw a new scientific paper from that struck me as both pioneering and hilarious. Skip to next paragraph Accompanied by six graphs, two tables and equations whose terms include “bologna” and “carpet,” it’s a thorough microbiological study of the five-second rule: the idea that if you pick up a dropped piece of food before you can count to five, it’s O.K. to eat it. I first heard about the rule from my then-young children and thought it was just a way of having fun at snack time and lunch. My daughter now tells me that fun was part of it, but they knew they were playing with “germs.” We’re reminded about germs on food whenever there’s an outbreak of E. coli or salmonella, and whenever we read the labels on packages of uncooked meat. But we don’t have much occasion to think about the everyday practice of retrieving and eating dropped pieces of food. Microbes are everywhere around us, not just on floors. They thrive in wet kitchen sponges and end up on freshly wiped countertops. As I write this column, on an airplane, I realize that I have removed a chicken sandwich from its protective plastic sleeve and put it down repeatedly on the sleeve’s outer surface, which was meant to protect the sandwich by blocking microbes. What’s on the outer surface? Without the five-second rule on my mind I wouldn’t have thought to wonder. I learned from the Clemson study that the true pioneer of five-second research was Jillian Clarke, a high-school intern at the in 2003. Ms. Clarke conducted a survey and found that slightly more than half of the men and 70 percent of the women knew of the five-second rule, and many said they followed it. She did an experiment by contaminating ceramic tiles with E. coli, placing gummy bears and cookies on the tiles for the statutory five seconds, and then analyzing the foods. They had become contaminated with bacteria. For performing this first test of the five-second rule, Ms. Clarke was recognized by the Annals of Improbable Research with the 2004 Ig Nobel Prize in public health. It’s not surprising that food dropped onto bacteria would collect some bacteria. But how many? Does it collect more as the seconds tick by? Enough to make you sick? Prof. Paul L. Dawson and his colleagues at Clemson have now put some numbers on floor-to-food contamination. Their bacterium of choice was salmonella; the test surfaces were tile, wood flooring and nylon carpet; and the test foods were slices of bread and bologna. First the researchers measured how long bacteria could survive on the surfaces. They applied salmonella broth in doses of several million bacteria per square centimeter, a number typical of badly contaminated food. I had thought that most bacteria were sensitive to drying out, but after 24 hours of exposure to the air, thousands of bacteria per square centimeter had survived on the tile and wood, and tens of thousands on the carpet. Hundreds of salmonella were still alive after 28 days. Professor Dawson and colleagues then placed test food slices onto salmonella-painted surfaces for varying lengths of time, and counted how many live bacteria were transferred to the food. On surfaces that had been contaminated eight hours earlier, slices of bologna and bread left for five seconds took up from 150 to 8,000 bacteria. Left for a full minute, slices collected about 10 times more than that from the tile and carpet, though a lower number from the wood. What do these numbers tell us about the five-second rule? Quick retrieval does mean fewer bacteria, but it’s no guarantee of safety. True, Jillian Clarke found that the number of bacteria on the floor at the University of Illinois was so low it couldn’t be measured, and the Clemson researchers resorted to extremely high contamination levels for their tests. But even if a floor — or a countertop, or wrapper — carried only a thousandth the number of bacteria applied by the researchers, the piece of food would be likely to pick up several bacteria. The infectious dose, the smallest number of bacteria that can actually cause illness, is as few as 10 for some salmonellas, fewer than 100 for the deadly strain of E. coli. Of course we can never know for sure how many harmful microbes there are on any surface. But we know enough now to formulate the five-second rule, version 2.0: If you drop a piece of food, pick it up quickly, take five seconds to recall that just a few bacteria can make you sick, then take a few more to think about where you dropped it and whether or not it’s worth eating. Next Article in Dining & Wine (4 of 17) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. F.D.A. Says Livestock Were Fed Pet Food With Suspect Chemical China Yields To Inquiry On Pet Food Tainted Pet Food Is Said to Be Still on Shelves Some Suspect Chemical Mix In Pet Food Food Contamination and Poisoning Next Article in Dining & Wine (4 of 17) &#x00bb; A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/nyregion/11food.html	Latin Food at Yankee Stadium. Now, How About That! - New York Times Latin Food at Yankee Stadium. Now, How About That! Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 In the Bronx, Latin food has always been easy to find. But not in Yankee Stadium. It has been one place in the majority-Hispanic borough where the only thing that came close to qualifying as authentic Latin fare was an order of nachos. Skip to next paragraph G. Paul Burnett/The New York Times Daniel R. Garcia, in front of the Latin food stand operated by his company at Yankee Stadium, only the second one in the stadium&#146;s 84 years. This season, however, the stadium&#8217;s menu &#151; hot dogs, hamburgers, chicken fingers, fries, pork fried rice, peanuts and even sushi and baked ziti &#151; has some spicy new additions. They read like the day&#8217;s specials at a Washington Heights restaurant: ground beef or cheese empanadas; chicken in salsa with sweet plantains, rice and beans; Cuban sandwiches with plantain chips; and papas rellenas, or fried stuffed potatoes. Yankee fans at Tuesday night&#8217;s game against the who might have otherwise walked out of the food court behind left field with a slice of pizza or a foot-long hot dog carried empanadas and Cuban sandwiches back to their seats. &#8220;It&#8217;s a big surprise,&#8221; said Natalia Messineo, 23, a student at the College of Staten Island, who had her hands full taking a tray of six empanadas to her husband and her friend. &#8220;It&#8217;s good to know they&#8217;re branching out.&#8221; The food is served at a concession stand called Salsa on the Go. It is only the second time in the 84-year history of the stadium that Latin food has been sold there. A concession stand that sold burritos was open for just one season a few years ago. The new stand illustrates the team&#8217;s eagerness to find ways to win Hispanic fans and bring the flavor of its home borough into the stadium. Another stand, now in its third season at the stadium, reflects the borough&#8217;s Italian roots: Mike&#8217;s Deli, a branch of the popular establishment on Arthur Avenue, serves meatball parmigiana heroes and other Italian sandwiches. &#8220;It&#8217;s silly to think that each person out of the 50,000 fans that come to a game want to eat the same food,&#8221; said Jason Zillo, a spokesman for the . &#8220;The Latin community is a huge part of our fan base. As we evolve as an organization, we&#8217;re looking to cater to the needs of the diverse number of people that come through the turnstiles.&#8221; The food at Salsa on the Go is prepared by the Bronx-based Salsa Caterers and Special Events, using ingredients and products from Goya Foods, the largest Hispanic-owned food company in the country. The stand, which is operated by Salsa Caterers, started serving on April 2, when the Yankees opened their season at home against the Tampa Bay Devil Rays For some Hispanic fans and those involved in running the stand, Salsa on the Go is a kind of milestone, earning Latin food a prominent place among the stadium&#8217;s traditional ballpark fare. For others, it is long overdue. &#8220;Considering the demographic changes in the city, it&#8217;s something they should have done a long time ago,&#8221; said Angelo Falc&#243;n, the president and founder of the National Institute for Latino Policy, a research and advocacy group based in New York. The stadium&#8217;s 44 food stands feed a large and hungry crowd: The team&#8217;s average home-game attendance as of Wednesday was 49,294, the highest in Major League Baseball. Hot dogs, not surprisingly, are the stadium&#8217;s top seller. About 30,000 are sold at each game, in addition to about 8,000 pretzels, according to managers at Centerplate, the company that oversees the stadium&#8217;s concessions. While the sales of empanadas are nowhere near those of hot dogs, Daniel R. Garcia, 45, the president of Salsa Caterers and Special Events, said he was confident that Latin food would become a stadium staple. Sales at Salsa on the Go have steadily increased from one game to the next, he said. Mr. Garcia, who grew up about three miles from the stadium, in the Hunts Point neighborhood, is particularly proud of his empanadas, fried pockets of dough usually filled with meat, cheese or fruit. The empanadas, which are cooked at Salsa Caterers&#8217; headquarters on Third Avenue in the Bronx and delivered to the stadium, are based on his Uncle Julio&#8217;s recipe. &#8220;They&#8217;re tasting them, and we&#8217;re getting the return customer coming back for them,&#8221; Mr. Garcia said. The stand is in the field-level food court in Section 20, in a tight space where corned beef and pastrami sandwiches used to be sold. Midway through Tuesday&#8217;s game, a long line formed to its left at a concession stand serving order after order of chicken fingers and fries. Another line formed to its right at Beers of the World. There was no waiting at Salsa on the Go. Mr. Garcia stood to the side in a Yankees cap and tan suit. He is already considering changes to the menu, including adding Latin-style fried chicken strips to draw in more chicken lovers. Though there is a large variety of food at the stadium, one thing remains the same &#151; the prices. The empanada costs $5 and the Cuban sandwich with plaintain chips costs $9.75. Next door, the chicken fingers and fries are $9.50. More Articles in New York Region &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. The Hon. Mr. Tailgate, Gathering No Moss Before the Sunday Kickoff, Tailgating With Gusto A Ballpark Where Yogurt and Fresh Fruit Vie With Tradition Food; Missing Home Plate More Articles in New York Region &#x00bb; The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics Yankee Stadium, Opening Day - 1923 N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/nyregion/11food.html	Latin Food at Yankee Stadium. Now, How About That! - New York Times Latin Food at Yankee Stadium. Now, How About That! Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 In the Bronx, Latin food has always been easy to find. But not in Yankee Stadium. It has been one place in the majority-Hispanic borough where the only thing that came close to qualifying as authentic Latin fare was an order of nachos. Skip to next paragraph G. Paul Burnett/The New York Times Daniel R. Garcia, in front of the Latin food stand operated by his company at Yankee Stadium, only the second one in the stadium&#146;s 84 years. This season, however, the stadium&#8217;s menu &#151; hot dogs, hamburgers, chicken fingers, fries, pork fried rice, peanuts and even sushi and baked ziti &#151; has some spicy new additions. They read like the day&#8217;s specials at a Washington Heights restaurant: ground beef or cheese empanadas; chicken in salsa with sweet plantains, rice and beans; Cuban sandwiches with plantain chips; and papas rellenas, or fried stuffed potatoes. Yankee fans at Tuesday night&#8217;s game against the who might have otherwise walked out of the food court behind left field with a slice of pizza or a foot-long hot dog carried empanadas and Cuban sandwiches back to their seats. &#8220;It&#8217;s a big surprise,&#8221; said Natalia Messineo, 23, a student at the College of Staten Island, who had her hands full taking a tray of six empanadas to her husband and her friend. &#8220;It&#8217;s good to know they&#8217;re branching out.&#8221; The food is served at a concession stand called Salsa on the Go. It is only the second time in the 84-year history of the stadium that Latin food has been sold there. A concession stand that sold burritos was open for just one season a few years ago. The new stand illustrates the team&#8217;s eagerness to find ways to win Hispanic fans and bring the flavor of its home borough into the stadium. Another stand, now in its third season at the stadium, reflects the borough&#8217;s Italian roots: Mike&#8217;s Deli, a branch of the popular establishment on Arthur Avenue, serves meatball parmigiana heroes and other Italian sandwiches. &#8220;It&#8217;s silly to think that each person out of the 50,000 fans that come to a game want to eat the same food,&#8221; said Jason Zillo, a spokesman for the . &#8220;The Latin community is a huge part of our fan base. As we evolve as an organization, we&#8217;re looking to cater to the needs of the diverse number of people that come through the turnstiles.&#8221; The food at Salsa on the Go is prepared by the Bronx-based Salsa Caterers and Special Events, using ingredients and products from Goya Foods, the largest Hispanic-owned food company in the country. The stand, which is operated by Salsa Caterers, started serving on April 2, when the Yankees opened their season at home against the Tampa Bay Devil Rays For some Hispanic fans and those involved in running the stand, Salsa on the Go is a kind of milestone, earning Latin food a prominent place among the stadium&#8217;s traditional ballpark fare. For others, it is long overdue. &#8220;Considering the demographic changes in the city, it&#8217;s something they should have done a long time ago,&#8221; said Angelo Falc&#243;n, the president and founder of the National Institute for Latino Policy, a research and advocacy group based in New York. The stadium&#8217;s 44 food stands feed a large and hungry crowd: The team&#8217;s average home-game attendance as of Wednesday was 49,294, the highest in Major League Baseball. Hot dogs, not surprisingly, are the stadium&#8217;s top seller. About 30,000 are sold at each game, in addition to about 8,000 pretzels, according to managers at Centerplate, the company that oversees the stadium&#8217;s concessions. While the sales of empanadas are nowhere near those of hot dogs, Daniel R. Garcia, 45, the president of Salsa Caterers and Special Events, said he was confident that Latin food would become a stadium staple. Sales at Salsa on the Go have steadily increased from one game to the next, he said. Mr. Garcia, who grew up about three miles from the stadium, in the Hunts Point neighborhood, is particularly proud of his empanadas, fried pockets of dough usually filled with meat, cheese or fruit. The empanadas, which are cooked at Salsa Caterers&#8217; headquarters on Third Avenue in the Bronx and delivered to the stadium, are based on his Uncle Julio&#8217;s recipe. &#8220;They&#8217;re tasting them, and we&#8217;re getting the return customer coming back for them,&#8221; Mr. Garcia said. The stand is in the field-level food court in Section 20, in a tight space where corned beef and pastrami sandwiches used to be sold. Midway through Tuesday&#8217;s game, a long line formed to its left at a concession stand serving order after order of chicken fingers and fries. Another line formed to its right at Beers of the World. There was no waiting at Salsa on the Go. Mr. Garcia stood to the side in a Yankees cap and tan suit. He is already considering changes to the menu, including adding Latin-style fried chicken strips to draw in more chicken lovers. Though there is a large variety of food at the stadium, one thing remains the same &#151; the prices. The empanada costs $5 and the Cuban sandwich with plaintain chips costs $9.75. Next door, the chicken fingers and fries are $9.50. More Articles in New York Region &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. The Hon. Mr. Tailgate, Gathering No Moss Before the Sunday Kickoff, Tailgating With Gusto A Ballpark Where Yogurt and Fresh Fruit Vie With Tradition Food; Missing Home Plate More Articles in New York Region &#x00bb; The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics Yankee Stadium, Opening Day - 1923 N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/pages/dining/index.html?partner=rssnyt	Dining & Wine - New York Times A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Tony Cenicola/The New York Times See a key to the items in this photograph Gorgeous, name-brand pots, pans and gadgets sure are nice, but are they necessary? No, and here’s how a good cook can outfit an entire kitchen for under $300. Video: Kitchen Starter Kit Latin Food at Yankee Stadium. Now, How About That! This season, the stadium’s menu — hot dogs, hamburgers, chicken fingers, fries, pork fried rice, and even sushi and baked ziti — has some spicy new additions. High & Low Finance $350 Liquor? Just Spreading the Wealth Private enterprise is stepping in as the government no longer fills a role it once did: income redistribution. Less Green at the Farmers’ Market New efforts to encourage food-aid recipients to eat more locally grown fruits and vegetables could end up shutting out the small farmers who are the backbone of these markets. In Los Angeles, the Accidental Pizza Maker As Nancy Silverton prepared to open her restaurant Mozza, a pizzeria annex was almost an afterthought. Now the parlor is one of the hottest reservations in Los Angeles A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills By JOHN T. EDGE They are either the worst thing to happen to pickles or a particularly brave new taste sensation, but Kool-Aid dills are now popular in the Mississippi Delta. The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? Is it safe to eat a piece of food that fell to the floor but was picked up in less that five seconds? Scientists recently put the five-second rule through some microbiology paces. A Chef With Swagger Can Nurture, Too Frank Bruni dines at Craftbar, the easygoing companion of Tom Colicchio’s Craft, and revisits Craftsteak, which has changed its approach to preparing beef. Where the Homework Is a Pleasure In this update on his April article about a do-it-yourself method of learning about wine, Eric Asimov reports on what he has found while making his way through two mixed cases. Hot, Hotter, Hottest: Fire From France To make a zippy, sinus-clearing dressing for leeks, find the brightest yellow Dijon mustard you can find and then add a lot of it. Prim but Satisfying, Venerable Sweets From Milan Chocolates for Mother’s Day, drop-in help for those without cooks and delicate petals of dried olive tapenade with a multitude of potential uses. New York Makes a Strong Showing at the James Beard Awards The move of the awards this year to Lincoln Center added glamour to a major culinary event and the “best chef New York City” award was given to David Waltuck of Chanterelle. Dining Briefs: Spotlight Live and Pio Pio Salon A look at two new restaurants: Spotlight Live, which channels “American Idol,” and Pio Pio Salon, a Peruvian spot on Amsterdam Avenue. Waiters Claim Harassment at Mr. Chow Three former employees of Michael Chow’s elegant Chinese restaurants have filed a lawsuit filled with bizarre allegations. ‘Top Chef’ Dreams Crushed by Student Loan Debt For would-be top chefs, there are few jobs that pay enough for them to retire their student loans. To Study Wine, Buy and Drink The best place to learn about wine, says Eric Asimov, is at home and this do-it-yourself method works for anyone who loves wine, including beginners. The Heel Is Rising Apulia, at the bottom of the Italian boot, has farmhouses turned into luxury hotels, compelling Baroque churches and a cuisine worth savoring. Just don't call it the next Tuscany. Audio Slide Show: Return to Apulia Food: The Way We Eat Looking at ‘‘The Silver Palate Cookbook’’ on its silver anniversary. 'The Joy of Drinking' Reviewed by ROBERT R. HARRIS A history of our long love affair with drinking. Hawking Hot Dogs: Some Are All-Stars and Then There’s ... By HARRY HURT III The New York Mets were warming up to play and I was warming up to sell a food item as famously American as baseball and apple pie. Video: Hawking Hot Dogs Letters to the Editor Living | Spring 2007 It's all about extreme grilling, good-humored ice cream and molecular mixology. Get the recipe for all the fixings of a delicious summer in the latest installment of T: Style. Go to T: Style Magazine » In his latest post, Frank Bruni considers when looks deceive. Go to Blog » , Eric Asimov ponders terroir. Go to Blog » A slew of new restaurants are opening this week, including China de Puebla, Perilla, Saucy and Nelson Blue. Recipe: Butterscotch Budino With Caramel Sauce Recipe: Extra-Sharp Leeks Vinaigrette Times food columnist Mark Bittman, a k a The Minimalist, outfits a kitchen with the basics for less than $300. Frank Bruni talks about the rustic region of Apulia on the heel of Italy's boot. From Deli to Gourmet Enterprise The founders of Zingerman's Delicatessen in Ann Arbor, Mich., have expanded through a carefully thought out 12-year plan to build a mini food empire. Connecticut: White Peach Restaurant Long Island: Sea Levels Long Island Vines: Clovis Point and Medolla Vineyards Frank Bruni discusses restaurants and dining trends in New York City. Eric Asimov, chief wine critic, on recent tastings and trends. MOST POPULAR - STYLE The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks In the Garden: It Takes a Hammer to Grow This Salad Faster Fashion, Cheaper Chic A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Critic’s Notebook: In Los Angeles, the Accidental Pizza Maker Fitness: The Yoga Therapist Will See You Now Tribute: The Woman No Hat Could Tame Fitness: A Healthy Mix of Rest and Motion Go to Complete List » You Do the Math Go to Complete List » Find home & garden professionals in your area today In Home & Garden: View all Home & Garden Classifieds Post Your Ad Now! Yankee Stadium, Opening Day - 1923 Get what’s cooking at your door. Get The Times delivered at 50% off. See what’s cooking out or at home for $3.15 a week. What’s new in technology? What’s new on Broadway? Plan what to see, eat and do. Looking to buy a new car? Start your 30-day free trial of Times Reader today. The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/pages/dining/index.html?partner=rssnyt	Dining & Wine - New York Times A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Tony Cenicola/The New York Times See a key to the items in this photograph Gorgeous, name-brand pots, pans and gadgets sure are nice, but are they necessary? No, and here’s how a good cook can outfit an entire kitchen for under $300. Video: Kitchen Starter Kit Latin Food at Yankee Stadium. Now, How About That! This season, the stadium’s menu — hot dogs, hamburgers, chicken fingers, fries, pork fried rice, and even sushi and baked ziti — has some spicy new additions. High & Low Finance $350 Liquor? Just Spreading the Wealth Private enterprise is stepping in as the government no longer fills a role it once did: income redistribution. Less Green at the Farmers’ Market New efforts to encourage food-aid recipients to eat more locally grown fruits and vegetables could end up shutting out the small farmers who are the backbone of these markets. In Los Angeles, the Accidental Pizza Maker As Nancy Silverton prepared to open her restaurant Mozza, a pizzeria annex was almost an afterthought. Now the parlor is one of the hottest reservations in Los Angeles A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills By JOHN T. EDGE They are either the worst thing to happen to pickles or a particularly brave new taste sensation, but Kool-Aid dills are now popular in the Mississippi Delta. The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? Is it safe to eat a piece of food that fell to the floor but was picked up in less that five seconds? Scientists recently put the five-second rule through some microbiology paces. A Chef With Swagger Can Nurture, Too Frank Bruni dines at Craftbar, the easygoing companion of Tom Colicchio’s Craft, and revisits Craftsteak, which has changed its approach to preparing beef. Where the Homework Is a Pleasure In this update on his April article about a do-it-yourself method of learning about wine, Eric Asimov reports on what he has found while making his way through two mixed cases. Hot, Hotter, Hottest: Fire From France To make a zippy, sinus-clearing dressing for leeks, find the brightest yellow Dijon mustard you can find and then add a lot of it. Prim but Satisfying, Venerable Sweets From Milan Chocolates for Mother’s Day, drop-in help for those without cooks and delicate petals of dried olive tapenade with a multitude of potential uses. New York Makes a Strong Showing at the James Beard Awards The move of the awards this year to Lincoln Center added glamour to a major culinary event and the “best chef New York City” award was given to David Waltuck of Chanterelle. Dining Briefs: Spotlight Live and Pio Pio Salon A look at two new restaurants: Spotlight Live, which channels “American Idol,” and Pio Pio Salon, a Peruvian spot on Amsterdam Avenue. Waiters Claim Harassment at Mr. Chow Three former employees of Michael Chow’s elegant Chinese restaurants have filed a lawsuit filled with bizarre allegations. ‘Top Chef’ Dreams Crushed by Student Loan Debt For would-be top chefs, there are few jobs that pay enough for them to retire their student loans. To Study Wine, Buy and Drink The best place to learn about wine, says Eric Asimov, is at home and this do-it-yourself method works for anyone who loves wine, including beginners. The Heel Is Rising Apulia, at the bottom of the Italian boot, has farmhouses turned into luxury hotels, compelling Baroque churches and a cuisine worth savoring. Just don't call it the next Tuscany. Audio Slide Show: Return to Apulia Food: The Way We Eat Looking at ‘‘The Silver Palate Cookbook’’ on its silver anniversary. 'The Joy of Drinking' Reviewed by ROBERT R. HARRIS A history of our long love affair with drinking. Hawking Hot Dogs: Some Are All-Stars and Then There’s ... By HARRY HURT III The New York Mets were warming up to play and I was warming up to sell a food item as famously American as baseball and apple pie. Video: Hawking Hot Dogs Letters to the Editor Living | Spring 2007 It's all about extreme grilling, good-humored ice cream and molecular mixology. Get the recipe for all the fixings of a delicious summer in the latest installment of T: Style. Go to T: Style Magazine » In his latest post, Frank Bruni considers when looks deceive. Go to Blog » , Eric Asimov ponders terroir. Go to Blog » A slew of new restaurants are opening this week, including China de Puebla, Perilla, Saucy and Nelson Blue. Recipe: Butterscotch Budino With Caramel Sauce Recipe: Extra-Sharp Leeks Vinaigrette Times food columnist Mark Bittman, a k a The Minimalist, outfits a kitchen with the basics for less than $300. Frank Bruni talks about the rustic region of Apulia on the heel of Italy's boot. From Deli to Gourmet Enterprise The founders of Zingerman's Delicatessen in Ann Arbor, Mich., have expanded through a carefully thought out 12-year plan to build a mini food empire. Connecticut: White Peach Restaurant Long Island: Sea Levels Long Island Vines: Clovis Point and Medolla Vineyards Frank Bruni discusses restaurants and dining trends in New York City. Eric Asimov, chief wine critic, on recent tastings and trends. MOST POPULAR - STYLE The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks In the Garden: It Takes a Hammer to Grow This Salad Faster Fashion, Cheaper Chic A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Critic’s Notebook: In Los Angeles, the Accidental Pizza Maker Fitness: The Yoga Therapist Will See You Now Tribute: The Woman No Hat Could Tame Fitness: A Healthy Mix of Rest and Motion Go to Complete List » You Do the Math Go to Complete List » Find home & garden professionals in your area today In Home & Garden: View all Home & Garden Classifieds Post Your Ad Now! Yankee Stadium, Opening Day - 1923 Get what’s cooking at your door. Get The Times delivered at 50% off. See what’s cooking out or at home for $3.15 a week. What’s new in technology? What’s new on Broadway? Plan what to see, eat and do. Looking to buy a new car? Start your 30-day free trial of Times Reader today. The New York Times Company
http://select.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/business/11norris.html?	The New York Times > TimesSelect More Articles in Business > Go to a Section HIGH & LOW FINANCE $350 Liquor? Just Spreading the Wealth Published: May 11, 2007 Private enterprise is stepping in as the government no longer fills a role it once did: income redistribution. To continue reading this article, you must be a subscriber to TimesSelect. upgrade to TimesSelect for free now Not a newspaper subscriber? Start your 14-day free trial to TimesSelect now. Not ready for TimesSelect? Read today's top news, reviews and more - free on NYTimes.com The New York Times Company
http://select.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/business/11norris.html?	The New York Times > TimesSelect More Articles in Business > Go to a Section HIGH & LOW FINANCE $350 Liquor? Just Spreading the Wealth Published: May 11, 2007 Private enterprise is stepping in as the government no longer fills a role it once did: income redistribution. To continue reading this article, you must be a subscriber to TimesSelect. upgrade to TimesSelect for free now Not a newspaper subscriber? Start your 14-day free trial to TimesSelect now. Not ready for TimesSelect? Read today's top news, reviews and more - free on NYTimes.com The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/09/dining/09mozz.html?ex=1336363200&en=84c7f54cf82294da&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	In Los Angeles, the Accidental Pizza Maker - New York Times In Los Angeles, the Accidental Pizza Maker Stephanie Diani for The New York Times From the counter at Pizzeria Mozza in Los Angeles, diners can watch pizzas being prepared and baked in a wood-burning oven. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 9, 2007 Skip to next paragraph Recipe: Butterscotch Budino With Caramel Sauce Stephanie Diani for The New York Times Nancy Silverton at Pizzeria Mozza. A FUNNY thing happened on Nancy Silverton’s way to opening a new Italian restaurant here. Actually, a doughy, cheesy, wonderful thing happened, and neither she nor Los Angeles may ever be quite the same. Looking for the right spot for her restaurant, she homed in on one that happened to have a pizzeria attached to it. And it hit her: pizzas. She should do pizzas herself. She should do them in this annex, next to the rest of her operation, because the space was already set up that way, with the right kind of wood-burning oven right where an oven should be. Her restaurant, Osteria Mozza, would be the star. Its scrappy sibling, Pizzeria Mozza, would lend amusing support. That was the idea. This is the reality: Osteria Mozza, after extensive construction and repeated delays, still isn’t open. July, Ms. Silverton promises, but does it matter? Pizzeria Mozza began serving lunch and dinner in November and became so madly popular and widely revered that food lovers in Los Angeles and elsewhere stopped asking when, oh when, Ms. Silverton’s proper restaurant would be ready. Instead they asked how, oh how, they could land a table at her pizza joint. It accepts reservations up to a month in advance and pretty much books up a month in advance. Some entertainment-industry bigwigs have their secretaries set up a reservation a week, while others sidestep the craziness and crowds by doing takeout. When I spoke to Ms. Silverton on the phone recently, she said that she had made a to-go order for early that day and one for later on. She sounded exhausted and, well, baffled. “It’s a small, little, loud restaurant, right?” she said, adding that she “never, ever, ever, ever” expected this kind of reaction. The instant and outsize swoon over Mozza owes something to the reputation she made for herself at La Brea Bakery and the restaurant Campanile. It’s fueled by the long-distance involvement of the New York chef Mario Batali and his frequent collaborator, Joseph Bastianich, who are partners in Mozza, their first West Coast venture. And it reflects the spread of a certain kind of haute pizza culture across the country. In growing numbers, serious chefs and bakers are making — and the food cognoscenti are devouring — exemplary pies inspired at least loosely by the thin-crust pizza of Naples. Usually measuring 10 to 12 inches in diameter, they’re sculptured from dough that’s been lovingly tended by the pizzaioli themselves and cooked at blazingly high temperatures in wood-burning ovens of Italian design. You can find them in Manhattan at Una Pizza Napoletana, in Chicago at Spacca Napoli and in Phoenix at Pizzeria Bianco, whose chef and owner, Chris Bianco, is the unofficial godfather of this movement. And you can find them in Los Angeles at Mozza, where they were greeted with so much excitement that The Los Angeles Times didn’t wait for the rest of the restaurant to weigh in with a review. The newspaper awarded the pizzeria a head-turning three out of four stars under the headline: “Hot spot? Mozza is on fire.” To get into Mozza on a recent night, I booked about three weeks ahead and had to accept a 5 p.m. dinner reservation: anything at a saner hour was long gone. Mozza is open daily from noon to midnight, and when I arrived it was two-thirds full. By 5:45, there wasn’t an empty seat. By 6:30, the area just inside the door was jammed with people waiting for one of 40 reserved spots at tables or one of 20 counter perches — half at a wine bar, half facing the pizza oven — that are distributed on a first-come-first-served basis. As my friends and I worked our way through several rounds of antipasti, I noticed a woman with tiger-stripe pants and a beehive hairdo just a few tables away. Then I noticed her pizza, which managed to make an even more compelling visual statement, its crust a veritable topography of canyons and buttes. John Ford could have shot a miniature Western on one of Ms. Silverton’s pies. The woman and I swapped smiles, a familiar wordless exchange between two food adventurers thrilled to be exploring a coveted frontier. She held my gaze as she lifted a slice of pizza and took a bite. Then, after a slow-motion, self-consciously dramatic chew or two, she nodded and flashed me an “O.K.” sign. The pizza passed muster. I’ll say. Ms. Silverton, who started her career as a pastry chef and is an accomplished baker, makes crusts with extraordinary character: softly chewy in spots, crisply charred in others, ever so faintly sweet, even more faintly sour. There’s some rye flour in her dough and some malt, and she lets it sit for 36 hours before she uses it. Next Article in Dining & Wine (2 of 17) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Square Feet; In Los Angeles, a Gehry-Designed Awakening IN TRANSIT; Michelin Guides to Rate More American Cities NEXT STOP: CULVER CITY, CALIF.; Art and Food Turn a Nowhere Into a Somewhere SURFACING | Los Angeles; Where Stars Are in the Kitchen Next Article in Dining & Wine (2 of 17) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Bush in Accord With Democrats on Trade Deals President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds Role of F.B.I. Informer Draws Praise and Questions On Carrier in Gulf, Cheney Issues Warning to Iran Romney Works to Put Skeptics' Doubts to Rest Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics Find home & garden professionals in your area today In Home & Garden: View all Home & Garden Classifieds Post Your Ad Now! N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/09/dining/09mozz.html?ex=1336363200&en=84c7f54cf82294da&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	In Los Angeles, the Accidental Pizza Maker - New York Times In Los Angeles, the Accidental Pizza Maker Stephanie Diani for The New York Times From the counter at Pizzeria Mozza in Los Angeles, diners can watch pizzas being prepared and baked in a wood-burning oven. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 9, 2007 Skip to next paragraph Recipe: Butterscotch Budino With Caramel Sauce Stephanie Diani for The New York Times Nancy Silverton at Pizzeria Mozza. A FUNNY thing happened on Nancy Silverton’s way to opening a new Italian restaurant here. Actually, a doughy, cheesy, wonderful thing happened, and neither she nor Los Angeles may ever be quite the same. Looking for the right spot for her restaurant, she homed in on one that happened to have a pizzeria attached to it. And it hit her: pizzas. She should do pizzas herself. She should do them in this annex, next to the rest of her operation, because the space was already set up that way, with the right kind of wood-burning oven right where an oven should be. Her restaurant, Osteria Mozza, would be the star. Its scrappy sibling, Pizzeria Mozza, would lend amusing support. That was the idea. This is the reality: Osteria Mozza, after extensive construction and repeated delays, still isn’t open. July, Ms. Silverton promises, but does it matter? Pizzeria Mozza began serving lunch and dinner in November and became so madly popular and widely revered that food lovers in Los Angeles and elsewhere stopped asking when, oh when, Ms. Silverton’s proper restaurant would be ready. Instead they asked how, oh how, they could land a table at her pizza joint. It accepts reservations up to a month in advance and pretty much books up a month in advance. Some entertainment-industry bigwigs have their secretaries set up a reservation a week, while others sidestep the craziness and crowds by doing takeout. When I spoke to Ms. Silverton on the phone recently, she said that she had made a to-go order for early that day and one for later on. She sounded exhausted and, well, baffled. “It’s a small, little, loud restaurant, right?” she said, adding that she “never, ever, ever, ever” expected this kind of reaction. The instant and outsize swoon over Mozza owes something to the reputation she made for herself at La Brea Bakery and the restaurant Campanile. It’s fueled by the long-distance involvement of the New York chef Mario Batali and his frequent collaborator, Joseph Bastianich, who are partners in Mozza, their first West Coast venture. And it reflects the spread of a certain kind of haute pizza culture across the country. In growing numbers, serious chefs and bakers are making — and the food cognoscenti are devouring — exemplary pies inspired at least loosely by the thin-crust pizza of Naples. Usually measuring 10 to 12 inches in diameter, they’re sculptured from dough that’s been lovingly tended by the pizzaioli themselves and cooked at blazingly high temperatures in wood-burning ovens of Italian design. You can find them in Manhattan at Una Pizza Napoletana, in Chicago at Spacca Napoli and in Phoenix at Pizzeria Bianco, whose chef and owner, Chris Bianco, is the unofficial godfather of this movement. And you can find them in Los Angeles at Mozza, where they were greeted with so much excitement that The Los Angeles Times didn’t wait for the rest of the restaurant to weigh in with a review. The newspaper awarded the pizzeria a head-turning three out of four stars under the headline: “Hot spot? Mozza is on fire.” To get into Mozza on a recent night, I booked about three weeks ahead and had to accept a 5 p.m. dinner reservation: anything at a saner hour was long gone. Mozza is open daily from noon to midnight, and when I arrived it was two-thirds full. By 5:45, there wasn’t an empty seat. By 6:30, the area just inside the door was jammed with people waiting for one of 40 reserved spots at tables or one of 20 counter perches — half at a wine bar, half facing the pizza oven — that are distributed on a first-come-first-served basis. As my friends and I worked our way through several rounds of antipasti, I noticed a woman with tiger-stripe pants and a beehive hairdo just a few tables away. Then I noticed her pizza, which managed to make an even more compelling visual statement, its crust a veritable topography of canyons and buttes. John Ford could have shot a miniature Western on one of Ms. Silverton’s pies. The woman and I swapped smiles, a familiar wordless exchange between two food adventurers thrilled to be exploring a coveted frontier. She held my gaze as she lifted a slice of pizza and took a bite. Then, after a slow-motion, self-consciously dramatic chew or two, she nodded and flashed me an “O.K.” sign. The pizza passed muster. I’ll say. Ms. Silverton, who started her career as a pastry chef and is an accomplished baker, makes crusts with extraordinary character: softly chewy in spots, crisply charred in others, ever so faintly sweet, even more faintly sour. There’s some rye flour in her dough and some malt, and she lets it sit for 36 hours before she uses it. Next Article in Dining & Wine (2 of 17) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Square Feet; In Los Angeles, a Gehry-Designed Awakening IN TRANSIT; Michelin Guides to Rate More American Cities NEXT STOP: CULVER CITY, CALIF.; Art and Food Turn a Nowhere Into a Somewhere SURFACING | Los Angeles; Where Stars Are in the Kitchen Next Article in Dining & Wine (2 of 17) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Bush in Accord With Democrats on Trade Deals President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds Role of F.B.I. Informer Draws Praise and Questions On Carrier in Gulf, Cheney Issues Warning to Iran Romney Works to Put Skeptics' Doubts to Rest Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics Find home & garden professionals in your area today In Home & Garden: View all Home & Garden Classifieds Post Your Ad Now! N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/pages/dining/index.html	Dining & Wine - New York Times A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Tony Cenicola/The New York Times See a key to the items in this photograph Gorgeous, name-brand pots, pans and gadgets sure are nice, but are they necessary? No, and here’s how a good cook can outfit an entire kitchen for under $300. Video: Kitchen Starter Kit Latin Food at Yankee Stadium. Now, How About That! This season, the stadium’s menu — hot dogs, hamburgers, chicken fingers, fries, pork fried rice, and even sushi and baked ziti — has some spicy new additions. High & Low Finance $350 Liquor? Just Spreading the Wealth Private enterprise is stepping in as the government no longer fills a role it once did: income redistribution. Less Green at the Farmers’ Market New efforts to encourage food-aid recipients to eat more locally grown fruits and vegetables could end up shutting out the small farmers who are the backbone of these markets. In Los Angeles, the Accidental Pizza Maker As Nancy Silverton prepared to open her restaurant Mozza, a pizzeria annex was almost an afterthought. Now the parlor is one of the hottest reservations in Los Angeles A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills By JOHN T. EDGE They are either the worst thing to happen to pickles or a particularly brave new taste sensation, but Kool-Aid dills are now popular in the Mississippi Delta. The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? Is it safe to eat a piece of food that fell to the floor but was picked up in less that five seconds? Scientists recently put the five-second rule through some microbiology paces. A Chef With Swagger Can Nurture, Too Frank Bruni dines at Craftbar, the easygoing companion of Tom Colicchio’s Craft, and revisits Craftsteak, which has changed its approach to preparing beef. Where the Homework Is a Pleasure In this update on his April article about a do-it-yourself method of learning about wine, Eric Asimov reports on what he has found while making his way through two mixed cases. Hot, Hotter, Hottest: Fire From France To make a zippy, sinus-clearing dressing for leeks, find the brightest yellow Dijon mustard you can find and then add a lot of it. Prim but Satisfying, Venerable Sweets From Milan Chocolates for Mother’s Day, drop-in help for those without cooks and delicate petals of dried olive tapenade with a multitude of potential uses. New York Makes a Strong Showing at the James Beard Awards The move of the awards this year to Lincoln Center added glamour to a major culinary event and the “best chef New York City” award was given to David Waltuck of Chanterelle. Dining Briefs: Spotlight Live and Pio Pio Salon A look at two new restaurants: Spotlight Live, which channels “American Idol,” and Pio Pio Salon, a Peruvian spot on Amsterdam Avenue. Waiters Claim Harassment at Mr. Chow Three former employees of Michael Chow’s elegant Chinese restaurants have filed a lawsuit filled with bizarre allegations. ‘Top Chef’ Dreams Crushed by Student Loan Debt For would-be top chefs, there are few jobs that pay enough for them to retire their student loans. To Study Wine, Buy and Drink The best place to learn about wine, says Eric Asimov, is at home and this do-it-yourself method works for anyone who loves wine, including beginners. The Heel Is Rising Apulia, at the bottom of the Italian boot, has farmhouses turned into luxury hotels, compelling Baroque churches and a cuisine worth savoring. Just don't call it the next Tuscany. Audio Slide Show: Return to Apulia Food: The Way We Eat Looking at ‘‘The Silver Palate Cookbook’’ on its silver anniversary. 'The Joy of Drinking' Reviewed by ROBERT R. HARRIS A history of our long love affair with drinking. Hawking Hot Dogs: Some Are All-Stars and Then There’s ... By HARRY HURT III The New York Mets were warming up to play and I was warming up to sell a food item as famously American as baseball and apple pie. Video: Hawking Hot Dogs Letters to the Editor Living | Spring 2007 It's all about extreme grilling, good-humored ice cream and molecular mixology. Get the recipe for all the fixings of a delicious summer in the latest installment of T: Style. Go to T: Style Magazine » In his latest post, Frank Bruni considers when looks deceive. Go to Blog » , Eric Asimov ponders terroir. Go to Blog » A slew of new restaurants are opening this week, including China de Puebla, Perilla, Saucy and Nelson Blue. Recipe: Butterscotch Budino With Caramel Sauce Recipe: Extra-Sharp Leeks Vinaigrette Times food columnist Mark Bittman, a k a The Minimalist, outfits a kitchen with the basics for less than $300. Frank Bruni talks about the rustic region of Apulia on the heel of Italy's boot. From Deli to Gourmet Enterprise The founders of Zingerman's Delicatessen in Ann Arbor, Mich., have expanded through a carefully thought out 12-year plan to build a mini food empire. Connecticut: White Peach Restaurant Long Island: Sea Levels Long Island Vines: Clovis Point and Medolla Vineyards Frank Bruni discusses restaurants and dining trends in New York City. Eric Asimov, chief wine critic, on recent tastings and trends. MOST POPULAR - STYLE The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks In the Garden: It Takes a Hammer to Grow This Salad Faster Fashion, Cheaper Chic A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Critic’s Notebook: In Los Angeles, the Accidental Pizza Maker Fitness: The Yoga Therapist Will See You Now Tribute: The Woman No Hat Could Tame Fitness: A Healthy Mix of Rest and Motion Go to Complete List » You Do the Math Go to Complete List » Find home & garden professionals in your area today In Home & Garden: View all Home & Garden Classifieds Post Your Ad Now! Yankee Stadium, Opening Day - 1923 Get what’s cooking at your door. Get The Times delivered at 50% off. Buy, sell or rent a home. Which gadget is getting all the buzz? Start your 30-day free trial of Times Reader today. Find a world of reasons to go. See what’s cooking out or at home for $3.15 a week. Tell us your nursing story. Inspiration & lessons. The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/pages/dining/index.html	Dining & Wine - New York Times A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Tony Cenicola/The New York Times See a key to the items in this photograph Gorgeous, name-brand pots, pans and gadgets sure are nice, but are they necessary? No, and here’s how a good cook can outfit an entire kitchen for under $300. Video: Kitchen Starter Kit Latin Food at Yankee Stadium. Now, How About That! This season, the stadium’s menu — hot dogs, hamburgers, chicken fingers, fries, pork fried rice, and even sushi and baked ziti — has some spicy new additions. High & Low Finance $350 Liquor? Just Spreading the Wealth Private enterprise is stepping in as the government no longer fills a role it once did: income redistribution. Less Green at the Farmers’ Market New efforts to encourage food-aid recipients to eat more locally grown fruits and vegetables could end up shutting out the small farmers who are the backbone of these markets. In Los Angeles, the Accidental Pizza Maker As Nancy Silverton prepared to open her restaurant Mozza, a pizzeria annex was almost an afterthought. Now the parlor is one of the hottest reservations in Los Angeles A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills By JOHN T. EDGE They are either the worst thing to happen to pickles or a particularly brave new taste sensation, but Kool-Aid dills are now popular in the Mississippi Delta. The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? Is it safe to eat a piece of food that fell to the floor but was picked up in less that five seconds? Scientists recently put the five-second rule through some microbiology paces. A Chef With Swagger Can Nurture, Too Frank Bruni dines at Craftbar, the easygoing companion of Tom Colicchio’s Craft, and revisits Craftsteak, which has changed its approach to preparing beef. Where the Homework Is a Pleasure In this update on his April article about a do-it-yourself method of learning about wine, Eric Asimov reports on what he has found while making his way through two mixed cases. Hot, Hotter, Hottest: Fire From France To make a zippy, sinus-clearing dressing for leeks, find the brightest yellow Dijon mustard you can find and then add a lot of it. Prim but Satisfying, Venerable Sweets From Milan Chocolates for Mother’s Day, drop-in help for those without cooks and delicate petals of dried olive tapenade with a multitude of potential uses. New York Makes a Strong Showing at the James Beard Awards The move of the awards this year to Lincoln Center added glamour to a major culinary event and the “best chef New York City” award was given to David Waltuck of Chanterelle. Dining Briefs: Spotlight Live and Pio Pio Salon A look at two new restaurants: Spotlight Live, which channels “American Idol,” and Pio Pio Salon, a Peruvian spot on Amsterdam Avenue. Waiters Claim Harassment at Mr. Chow Three former employees of Michael Chow’s elegant Chinese restaurants have filed a lawsuit filled with bizarre allegations. ‘Top Chef’ Dreams Crushed by Student Loan Debt For would-be top chefs, there are few jobs that pay enough for them to retire their student loans. To Study Wine, Buy and Drink The best place to learn about wine, says Eric Asimov, is at home and this do-it-yourself method works for anyone who loves wine, including beginners. The Heel Is Rising Apulia, at the bottom of the Italian boot, has farmhouses turned into luxury hotels, compelling Baroque churches and a cuisine worth savoring. Just don't call it the next Tuscany. Audio Slide Show: Return to Apulia Food: The Way We Eat Looking at ‘‘The Silver Palate Cookbook’’ on its silver anniversary. 'The Joy of Drinking' Reviewed by ROBERT R. HARRIS A history of our long love affair with drinking. Hawking Hot Dogs: Some Are All-Stars and Then There’s ... By HARRY HURT III The New York Mets were warming up to play and I was warming up to sell a food item as famously American as baseball and apple pie. Video: Hawking Hot Dogs Letters to the Editor Living | Spring 2007 It's all about extreme grilling, good-humored ice cream and molecular mixology. Get the recipe for all the fixings of a delicious summer in the latest installment of T: Style. Go to T: Style Magazine » In his latest post, Frank Bruni considers when looks deceive. Go to Blog » , Eric Asimov ponders terroir. Go to Blog » A slew of new restaurants are opening this week, including China de Puebla, Perilla, Saucy and Nelson Blue. Recipe: Butterscotch Budino With Caramel Sauce Recipe: Extra-Sharp Leeks Vinaigrette Times food columnist Mark Bittman, a k a The Minimalist, outfits a kitchen with the basics for less than $300. Frank Bruni talks about the rustic region of Apulia on the heel of Italy's boot. From Deli to Gourmet Enterprise The founders of Zingerman's Delicatessen in Ann Arbor, Mich., have expanded through a carefully thought out 12-year plan to build a mini food empire. Connecticut: White Peach Restaurant Long Island: Sea Levels Long Island Vines: Clovis Point and Medolla Vineyards Frank Bruni discusses restaurants and dining trends in New York City. Eric Asimov, chief wine critic, on recent tastings and trends. MOST POPULAR - STYLE The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks In the Garden: It Takes a Hammer to Grow This Salad Faster Fashion, Cheaper Chic A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Critic’s Notebook: In Los Angeles, the Accidental Pizza Maker Fitness: The Yoga Therapist Will See You Now Tribute: The Woman No Hat Could Tame Fitness: A Healthy Mix of Rest and Motion Go to Complete List » You Do the Math Go to Complete List » Find home & garden professionals in your area today In Home & Garden: View all Home & Garden Classifieds Post Your Ad Now! Yankee Stadium, Opening Day - 1923 Get what’s cooking at your door. Get The Times delivered at 50% off. Buy, sell or rent a home. Which gadget is getting all the buzz? Start your 30-day free trial of Times Reader today. Find a world of reasons to go. See what’s cooking out or at home for $3.15 a week. Tell us your nursing story. Inspiration & lessons. The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/opinion/10kummer.html?ex=1336449600&en=295532d6b5d0c0d3&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Less Green at the Farmers&#8217; Market - New York Times Less Green at the Farmers’ Market Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 Skip to next paragraph IN the five years since the last farm bill was passed, the number of farmers’ markets in this country has grown to nearly 4,500 from 2,750, gladdening the hearts of foodies who like nothing better than seeing locally grown Chioggia beets, butter radishes, Early Girl tomatoes, miniature pattypan squash, chervil, fresh goat cheese logs and duck breast in a conveniently located market. Some of the best customers of farmers’ markets, though, haven’t been free-spending foodies, but food-aid recipients. Happily, the new farm bill before Congress has several proposals to vastly increase food aid to the poor, including two programs that allow them to buy at farmers’ markets. That normally would be great for small farmers. Without the guaranteed income from the farm bill’s $15 million Seniors Farmers’ Market Nutrition Program and the separate $25 million Farmers’ Market Nutrition Program (part of the food aid program for families known as WIC), some small growers would be out of business, and many others would be reluctant to sell in low-income neighborhoods where fresh produce is otherwise a rarity — “food deserts.” But, it turns out, new efforts to encourage food-aid recipients to eat more fruits and vegetables — which are calamitously underrepresented in American diets — could end up shutting out the small farmers who are the backbone of these markets. The Agriculture Department has proposed rules that would reallocate WIC benefits now restricted to eggs and dairy products, which have long enjoyed the muscle of well-financed lobbies, to fruits and vegetables, which haven’t. Millions of children would be entitled to $6 a month for produce. And in its initial proposals for the new farm bill, the Bush administration suggested making available $200 million, starting next year, to buy fruits and vegetables for the poor. If such suggestions get approved, hundreds of millions more dollars could be spent every year on fresh produce. There’s a big catch, though: small farmers might not reap the windfall. Over the past 15 years, most states have switched from paper coupons for food stamps to debit cards, removing the stigma of redemption at the checkout counter. The WIC program, which still uses paper, will most likely do the same. Most farmers, of course, don’t take plastic — and, market managers say, they have seen their sales plummet with the switch from paper. The need for farmers to enter the cashless economy is obvious. Wireless card readers will benefit both people on food assistance and foodies who (like me) don’t carry all the cash they end up eager to spend. But who will pay for the machines, which can cost as much as $1,500 and incur steep monthly service fees, not to mention workers trained to use them? Without card readers, farmers fear they will lose the bulk of the farm bill help they get now, and be shut out of those new hundreds of millions. The proposals at the Agriculture Department and in the farm bill would let food-aid recipients buy fruits and vegetables wherever they can find them. That means supermarkets — which remain the most convenient place to buy produce. Farmers’ market advocates are alarmed. The money will go to the centralized industrial farms that supply supermarkets, they say — the ones that crush small farmers and waste fuel. So: Help small farmers and the places dedicated to selling truly local food, or help the sharply increasing number of people struggling to feed themselves and their families? The most equitable way to help farmer’s markets may be to urge legislators to support good programs already in the farm bill, like the Farmers’ Market Promotion Program and Community Food Projects. These could equip farmers with card readers, an essential first step, and finance other ingenious projects to help small farmers thrive. Concerned cooks (and everyone else) should urge increases for education programs that tell people how and where to use food stamps. Only 56 percent of people eligible for food stamps get them, and most of those recipients don’t know that the stamps can be used at farmers’ markets. A reason often given for the great success of the WIC farmers’ market program is the nutrition education that comes with it. Yes, supermarkets may well get the great majority of increased benefits for fresh produce. But a small slice of a much larger pie could amount to as much as or more money than farmers’ markets now get from food-assistance programs. And the new money available for fruit and vegetables would mean that “specialty crops” — the kind we actually think of as food, as opposed to crops like corn, soy and cotton that get the much criticized multibillion-dollar commodity subsidies — would finally get support from the farm bill. More people would eat healthier diets, and farmers might start growing even better-tasting varieties, confident of finding a market. Many other programs proposed for the farm bill could bring locally grown food to places that want and need it, like schools and hospitals. But farmers’ markets are where the bill can best serve cooks — a frequently well-financed, always opinionated special-interest group that should start acting like one. Corby Kummer, a senior editor at The Atlantic Monthly, is the author of “The Pleasures of Slow Food.” More Articles in Opinion &#x00bb; To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Coveted, French, And Now in Tennessee Rise in Ethanol Raises Concerns About Corn as a Food The Seeds Of a Mission; Farmers Are Wooed To Help Food Makers Reduce Trans Fat Leveling the Indian Playing Field? More Articles in Opinion &#x00bb; N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/opinion/10kummer.html?ex=1336449600&en=295532d6b5d0c0d3&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Less Green at the Farmers&#8217; Market - New York Times Less Green at the Farmers’ Market Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 Skip to next paragraph IN the five years since the last farm bill was passed, the number of farmers’ markets in this country has grown to nearly 4,500 from 2,750, gladdening the hearts of foodies who like nothing better than seeing locally grown Chioggia beets, butter radishes, Early Girl tomatoes, miniature pattypan squash, chervil, fresh goat cheese logs and duck breast in a conveniently located market. Some of the best customers of farmers’ markets, though, haven’t been free-spending foodies, but food-aid recipients. Happily, the new farm bill before Congress has several proposals to vastly increase food aid to the poor, including two programs that allow them to buy at farmers’ markets. That normally would be great for small farmers. Without the guaranteed income from the farm bill’s $15 million Seniors Farmers’ Market Nutrition Program and the separate $25 million Farmers’ Market Nutrition Program (part of the food aid program for families known as WIC), some small growers would be out of business, and many others would be reluctant to sell in low-income neighborhoods where fresh produce is otherwise a rarity — “food deserts.” But, it turns out, new efforts to encourage food-aid recipients to eat more fruits and vegetables — which are calamitously underrepresented in American diets — could end up shutting out the small farmers who are the backbone of these markets. The Agriculture Department has proposed rules that would reallocate WIC benefits now restricted to eggs and dairy products, which have long enjoyed the muscle of well-financed lobbies, to fruits and vegetables, which haven’t. Millions of children would be entitled to $6 a month for produce. And in its initial proposals for the new farm bill, the Bush administration suggested making available $200 million, starting next year, to buy fruits and vegetables for the poor. If such suggestions get approved, hundreds of millions more dollars could be spent every year on fresh produce. There’s a big catch, though: small farmers might not reap the windfall. Over the past 15 years, most states have switched from paper coupons for food stamps to debit cards, removing the stigma of redemption at the checkout counter. The WIC program, which still uses paper, will most likely do the same. Most farmers, of course, don’t take plastic — and, market managers say, they have seen their sales plummet with the switch from paper. The need for farmers to enter the cashless economy is obvious. Wireless card readers will benefit both people on food assistance and foodies who (like me) don’t carry all the cash they end up eager to spend. But who will pay for the machines, which can cost as much as $1,500 and incur steep monthly service fees, not to mention workers trained to use them? Without card readers, farmers fear they will lose the bulk of the farm bill help they get now, and be shut out of those new hundreds of millions. The proposals at the Agriculture Department and in the farm bill would let food-aid recipients buy fruits and vegetables wherever they can find them. That means supermarkets — which remain the most convenient place to buy produce. Farmers’ market advocates are alarmed. The money will go to the centralized industrial farms that supply supermarkets, they say — the ones that crush small farmers and waste fuel. So: Help small farmers and the places dedicated to selling truly local food, or help the sharply increasing number of people struggling to feed themselves and their families? The most equitable way to help farmer’s markets may be to urge legislators to support good programs already in the farm bill, like the Farmers’ Market Promotion Program and Community Food Projects. These could equip farmers with card readers, an essential first step, and finance other ingenious projects to help small farmers thrive. Concerned cooks (and everyone else) should urge increases for education programs that tell people how and where to use food stamps. Only 56 percent of people eligible for food stamps get them, and most of those recipients don’t know that the stamps can be used at farmers’ markets. A reason often given for the great success of the WIC farmers’ market program is the nutrition education that comes with it. Yes, supermarkets may well get the great majority of increased benefits for fresh produce. But a small slice of a much larger pie could amount to as much as or more money than farmers’ markets now get from food-assistance programs. And the new money available for fruit and vegetables would mean that “specialty crops” — the kind we actually think of as food, as opposed to crops like corn, soy and cotton that get the much criticized multibillion-dollar commodity subsidies — would finally get support from the farm bill. More people would eat healthier diets, and farmers might start growing even better-tasting varieties, confident of finding a market. Many other programs proposed for the farm bill could bring locally grown food to places that want and need it, like schools and hospitals. But farmers’ markets are where the bill can best serve cooks — a frequently well-financed, always opinionated special-interest group that should start acting like one. Corby Kummer, a senior editor at The Atlantic Monthly, is the author of “The Pleasures of Slow Food.” More Articles in Opinion &#x00bb; To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Coveted, French, And Now in Tennessee Rise in Ethanol Raises Concerns About Corn as a Food The Seeds Of a Mission; Farmers Are Wooed To Help Food Makers Reduce Trans Fat Leveling the Indian Playing Field? More Articles in Opinion &#x00bb; N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/09/dining/09mozz.html	In Los Angeles, the Accidental Pizza Maker - New York Times In Los Angeles, the Accidental Pizza Maker Stephanie Diani for The New York Times From the counter at Pizzeria Mozza in Los Angeles, diners can watch pizzas being prepared and baked in a wood-burning oven. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 9, 2007 Skip to next paragraph Recipe: Butterscotch Budino With Caramel Sauce Stephanie Diani for The New York Times Nancy Silverton at Pizzeria Mozza. A FUNNY thing happened on Nancy Silverton’s way to opening a new Italian restaurant here. Actually, a doughy, cheesy, wonderful thing happened, and neither she nor Los Angeles may ever be quite the same. Looking for the right spot for her restaurant, she homed in on one that happened to have a pizzeria attached to it. And it hit her: pizzas. She should do pizzas herself. She should do them in this annex, next to the rest of her operation, because the space was already set up that way, with the right kind of wood-burning oven right where an oven should be. Her restaurant, Osteria Mozza, would be the star. Its scrappy sibling, Pizzeria Mozza, would lend amusing support. That was the idea. This is the reality: Osteria Mozza, after extensive construction and repeated delays, still isn’t open. July, Ms. Silverton promises, but does it matter? Pizzeria Mozza began serving lunch and dinner in November and became so madly popular and widely revered that food lovers in Los Angeles and elsewhere stopped asking when, oh when, Ms. Silverton’s proper restaurant would be ready. Instead they asked how, oh how, they could land a table at her pizza joint. It accepts reservations up to a month in advance and pretty much books up a month in advance. Some entertainment-industry bigwigs have their secretaries set up a reservation a week, while others sidestep the craziness and crowds by doing takeout. When I spoke to Ms. Silverton on the phone recently, she said that she had made a to-go order for early that day and one for later on. She sounded exhausted and, well, baffled. “It’s a small, little, loud restaurant, right?” she said, adding that she “never, ever, ever, ever” expected this kind of reaction. The instant and outsize swoon over Mozza owes something to the reputation she made for herself at La Brea Bakery and the restaurant Campanile. It’s fueled by the long-distance involvement of the New York chef Mario Batali and his frequent collaborator, Joseph Bastianich, who are partners in Mozza, their first West Coast venture. And it reflects the spread of a certain kind of haute pizza culture across the country. In growing numbers, serious chefs and bakers are making — and the food cognoscenti are devouring — exemplary pies inspired at least loosely by the thin-crust pizza of Naples. Usually measuring 10 to 12 inches in diameter, they’re sculptured from dough that’s been lovingly tended by the pizzaioli themselves and cooked at blazingly high temperatures in wood-burning ovens of Italian design. You can find them in Manhattan at Una Pizza Napoletana, in Chicago at Spacca Napoli and in Phoenix at Pizzeria Bianco, whose chef and owner, Chris Bianco, is the unofficial godfather of this movement. And you can find them in Los Angeles at Mozza, where they were greeted with so much excitement that The Los Angeles Times didn’t wait for the rest of the restaurant to weigh in with a review. The newspaper awarded the pizzeria a head-turning three out of four stars under the headline: “Hot spot? Mozza is on fire.” To get into Mozza on a recent night, I booked about three weeks ahead and had to accept a 5 p.m. dinner reservation: anything at a saner hour was long gone. Mozza is open daily from noon to midnight, and when I arrived it was two-thirds full. By 5:45, there wasn’t an empty seat. By 6:30, the area just inside the door was jammed with people waiting for one of 40 reserved spots at tables or one of 20 counter perches — half at a wine bar, half facing the pizza oven — that are distributed on a first-come-first-served basis. As my friends and I worked our way through several rounds of antipasti, I noticed a woman with tiger-stripe pants and a beehive hairdo just a few tables away. Then I noticed her pizza, which managed to make an even more compelling visual statement, its crust a veritable topography of canyons and buttes. John Ford could have shot a miniature Western on one of Ms. Silverton’s pies. The woman and I swapped smiles, a familiar wordless exchange between two food adventurers thrilled to be exploring a coveted frontier. She held my gaze as she lifted a slice of pizza and took a bite. Then, after a slow-motion, self-consciously dramatic chew or two, she nodded and flashed me an “O.K.” sign. The pizza passed muster. I’ll say. Ms. Silverton, who started her career as a pastry chef and is an accomplished baker, makes crusts with extraordinary character: softly chewy in spots, crisply charred in others, ever so faintly sweet, even more faintly sour. There’s some rye flour in her dough and some malt, and she lets it sit for 36 hours before she uses it. Next Article in Dining & Wine (2 of 17) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Square Feet; In Los Angeles, a Gehry-Designed Awakening IN TRANSIT; Michelin Guides to Rate More American Cities NEXT STOP: CULVER CITY, CALIF.; Art and Food Turn a Nowhere Into a Somewhere SURFACING | Los Angeles; Where Stars Are in the Kitchen Next Article in Dining & Wine (2 of 17) &#x00bb; The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/09/dining/09mozz.html	In Los Angeles, the Accidental Pizza Maker - New York Times In Los Angeles, the Accidental Pizza Maker Stephanie Diani for The New York Times From the counter at Pizzeria Mozza in Los Angeles, diners can watch pizzas being prepared and baked in a wood-burning oven. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 9, 2007 Skip to next paragraph Recipe: Butterscotch Budino With Caramel Sauce Stephanie Diani for The New York Times Nancy Silverton at Pizzeria Mozza. A FUNNY thing happened on Nancy Silverton’s way to opening a new Italian restaurant here. Actually, a doughy, cheesy, wonderful thing happened, and neither she nor Los Angeles may ever be quite the same. Looking for the right spot for her restaurant, she homed in on one that happened to have a pizzeria attached to it. And it hit her: pizzas. She should do pizzas herself. She should do them in this annex, next to the rest of her operation, because the space was already set up that way, with the right kind of wood-burning oven right where an oven should be. Her restaurant, Osteria Mozza, would be the star. Its scrappy sibling, Pizzeria Mozza, would lend amusing support. That was the idea. This is the reality: Osteria Mozza, after extensive construction and repeated delays, still isn’t open. July, Ms. Silverton promises, but does it matter? Pizzeria Mozza began serving lunch and dinner in November and became so madly popular and widely revered that food lovers in Los Angeles and elsewhere stopped asking when, oh when, Ms. Silverton’s proper restaurant would be ready. Instead they asked how, oh how, they could land a table at her pizza joint. It accepts reservations up to a month in advance and pretty much books up a month in advance. Some entertainment-industry bigwigs have their secretaries set up a reservation a week, while others sidestep the craziness and crowds by doing takeout. When I spoke to Ms. Silverton on the phone recently, she said that she had made a to-go order for early that day and one for later on. She sounded exhausted and, well, baffled. “It’s a small, little, loud restaurant, right?” she said, adding that she “never, ever, ever, ever” expected this kind of reaction. The instant and outsize swoon over Mozza owes something to the reputation she made for herself at La Brea Bakery and the restaurant Campanile. It’s fueled by the long-distance involvement of the New York chef Mario Batali and his frequent collaborator, Joseph Bastianich, who are partners in Mozza, their first West Coast venture. And it reflects the spread of a certain kind of haute pizza culture across the country. In growing numbers, serious chefs and bakers are making — and the food cognoscenti are devouring — exemplary pies inspired at least loosely by the thin-crust pizza of Naples. Usually measuring 10 to 12 inches in diameter, they’re sculptured from dough that’s been lovingly tended by the pizzaioli themselves and cooked at blazingly high temperatures in wood-burning ovens of Italian design. You can find them in Manhattan at Una Pizza Napoletana, in Chicago at Spacca Napoli and in Phoenix at Pizzeria Bianco, whose chef and owner, Chris Bianco, is the unofficial godfather of this movement. And you can find them in Los Angeles at Mozza, where they were greeted with so much excitement that The Los Angeles Times didn’t wait for the rest of the restaurant to weigh in with a review. The newspaper awarded the pizzeria a head-turning three out of four stars under the headline: “Hot spot? Mozza is on fire.” To get into Mozza on a recent night, I booked about three weeks ahead and had to accept a 5 p.m. dinner reservation: anything at a saner hour was long gone. Mozza is open daily from noon to midnight, and when I arrived it was two-thirds full. By 5:45, there wasn’t an empty seat. By 6:30, the area just inside the door was jammed with people waiting for one of 40 reserved spots at tables or one of 20 counter perches — half at a wine bar, half facing the pizza oven — that are distributed on a first-come-first-served basis. As my friends and I worked our way through several rounds of antipasti, I noticed a woman with tiger-stripe pants and a beehive hairdo just a few tables away. Then I noticed her pizza, which managed to make an even more compelling visual statement, its crust a veritable topography of canyons and buttes. John Ford could have shot a miniature Western on one of Ms. Silverton’s pies. The woman and I swapped smiles, a familiar wordless exchange between two food adventurers thrilled to be exploring a coveted frontier. She held my gaze as she lifted a slice of pizza and took a bite. Then, after a slow-motion, self-consciously dramatic chew or two, she nodded and flashed me an “O.K.” sign. The pizza passed muster. I’ll say. Ms. Silverton, who started her career as a pastry chef and is an accomplished baker, makes crusts with extraordinary character: softly chewy in spots, crisply charred in others, ever so faintly sweet, even more faintly sour. There’s some rye flour in her dough and some malt, and she lets it sit for 36 hours before she uses it. Next Article in Dining & Wine (2 of 17) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Square Feet; In Los Angeles, a Gehry-Designed Awakening IN TRANSIT; Michelin Guides to Rate More American Cities NEXT STOP: CULVER CITY, CALIF.; Art and Food Turn a Nowhere Into a Somewhere SURFACING | Los Angeles; Where Stars Are in the Kitchen Next Article in Dining & Wine (2 of 17) &#x00bb; The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/nyregion/11food.html?ex=1336536000&en=1915664101c352f4&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Latin Food at Yankee Stadium. Now, How About That! - New York Times Latin Food at Yankee Stadium. Now, How About That! Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 In the Bronx, Latin food has always been easy to find. But not in Yankee Stadium. It has been one place in the majority-Hispanic borough where the only thing that came close to qualifying as authentic Latin fare was an order of nachos. Skip to next paragraph G. Paul Burnett/The New York Times Daniel R. Garcia, in front of the Latin food stand operated by his company at Yankee Stadium, only the second one in the stadium&#146;s 84 years. This season, however, the stadium&#8217;s menu &#151; hot dogs, hamburgers, chicken fingers, fries, pork fried rice, peanuts and even sushi and baked ziti &#151; has some spicy new additions. They read like the day&#8217;s specials at a Washington Heights restaurant: ground beef or cheese empanadas; chicken in salsa with sweet plantains, rice and beans; Cuban sandwiches with plantain chips; and papas rellenas, or fried stuffed potatoes. Yankee fans at Tuesday night&#8217;s game against the who might have otherwise walked out of the food court behind left field with a slice of pizza or a foot-long hot dog carried empanadas and Cuban sandwiches back to their seats. &#8220;It&#8217;s a big surprise,&#8221; said Natalia Messineo, 23, a student at the College of Staten Island, who had her hands full taking a tray of six empanadas to her husband and her friend. &#8220;It&#8217;s good to know they&#8217;re branching out.&#8221; The food is served at a concession stand called Salsa on the Go. It is only the second time in the 84-year history of the stadium that Latin food has been sold there. A concession stand that sold burritos was open for just one season a few years ago. The new stand illustrates the team&#8217;s eagerness to find ways to win Hispanic fans and bring the flavor of its home borough into the stadium. Another stand, now in its third season at the stadium, reflects the borough&#8217;s Italian roots: Mike&#8217;s Deli, a branch of the popular establishment on Arthur Avenue, serves meatball parmigiana heroes and other Italian sandwiches. &#8220;It&#8217;s silly to think that each person out of the 50,000 fans that come to a game want to eat the same food,&#8221; said Jason Zillo, a spokesman for the . &#8220;The Latin community is a huge part of our fan base. As we evolve as an organization, we&#8217;re looking to cater to the needs of the diverse number of people that come through the turnstiles.&#8221; The food at Salsa on the Go is prepared by the Bronx-based Salsa Caterers and Special Events, using ingredients and products from Goya Foods, the largest Hispanic-owned food company in the country. The stand, which is operated by Salsa Caterers, started serving on April 2, when the Yankees opened their season at home against the Tampa Bay Devil Rays For some Hispanic fans and those involved in running the stand, Salsa on the Go is a kind of milestone, earning Latin food a prominent place among the stadium&#8217;s traditional ballpark fare. For others, it is long overdue. &#8220;Considering the demographic changes in the city, it&#8217;s something they should have done a long time ago,&#8221; said Angelo Falc&#243;n, the president and founder of the National Institute for Latino Policy, a research and advocacy group based in New York. The stadium&#8217;s 44 food stands feed a large and hungry crowd: The team&#8217;s average home-game attendance as of Wednesday was 49,294, the highest in Major League Baseball. Hot dogs, not surprisingly, are the stadium&#8217;s top seller. About 30,000 are sold at each game, in addition to about 8,000 pretzels, according to managers at Centerplate, the company that oversees the stadium&#8217;s concessions. While the sales of empanadas are nowhere near those of hot dogs, Daniel R. Garcia, 45, the president of Salsa Caterers and Special Events, said he was confident that Latin food would become a stadium staple. Sales at Salsa on the Go have steadily increased from one game to the next, he said. Mr. Garcia, who grew up about three miles from the stadium, in the Hunts Point neighborhood, is particularly proud of his empanadas, fried pockets of dough usually filled with meat, cheese or fruit. The empanadas, which are cooked at Salsa Caterers&#8217; headquarters on Third Avenue in the Bronx and delivered to the stadium, are based on his Uncle Julio&#8217;s recipe. &#8220;They&#8217;re tasting them, and we&#8217;re getting the return customer coming back for them,&#8221; Mr. Garcia said. The stand is in the field-level food court in Section 20, in a tight space where corned beef and pastrami sandwiches used to be sold. Midway through Tuesday&#8217;s game, a long line formed to its left at a concession stand serving order after order of chicken fingers and fries. Another line formed to its right at Beers of the World. There was no waiting at Salsa on the Go. Mr. Garcia stood to the side in a Yankees cap and tan suit. He is already considering changes to the menu, including adding Latin-style fried chicken strips to draw in more chicken lovers. Though there is a large variety of food at the stadium, one thing remains the same &#151; the prices. The empanada costs $5 and the Cuban sandwich with plaintain chips costs $9.75. Next door, the chicken fingers and fries are $9.50. More Articles in New York Region &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. The Hon. Mr. Tailgate, Gathering No Moss Before the Sunday Kickoff, Tailgating With Gusto A Ballpark Where Yogurt and Fresh Fruit Vie With Tradition Food; Missing Home Plate More Articles in New York Region &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Bush in Accord With Democrats on Trade Deals President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds Role of F.B.I. Informer Draws Praise and Questions On Carrier in Gulf, Cheney Issues Warning to Iran Romney Works to Put Skeptics' Doubts to Rest Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics Yankee Stadium, Opening Day - 1923 N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/nyregion/11food.html?ex=1336536000&en=1915664101c352f4&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Latin Food at Yankee Stadium. Now, How About That! - New York Times Latin Food at Yankee Stadium. Now, How About That! Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 In the Bronx, Latin food has always been easy to find. But not in Yankee Stadium. It has been one place in the majority-Hispanic borough where the only thing that came close to qualifying as authentic Latin fare was an order of nachos. Skip to next paragraph G. Paul Burnett/The New York Times Daniel R. Garcia, in front of the Latin food stand operated by his company at Yankee Stadium, only the second one in the stadium&#146;s 84 years. This season, however, the stadium&#8217;s menu &#151; hot dogs, hamburgers, chicken fingers, fries, pork fried rice, peanuts and even sushi and baked ziti &#151; has some spicy new additions. They read like the day&#8217;s specials at a Washington Heights restaurant: ground beef or cheese empanadas; chicken in salsa with sweet plantains, rice and beans; Cuban sandwiches with plantain chips; and papas rellenas, or fried stuffed potatoes. Yankee fans at Tuesday night&#8217;s game against the who might have otherwise walked out of the food court behind left field with a slice of pizza or a foot-long hot dog carried empanadas and Cuban sandwiches back to their seats. &#8220;It&#8217;s a big surprise,&#8221; said Natalia Messineo, 23, a student at the College of Staten Island, who had her hands full taking a tray of six empanadas to her husband and her friend. &#8220;It&#8217;s good to know they&#8217;re branching out.&#8221; The food is served at a concession stand called Salsa on the Go. It is only the second time in the 84-year history of the stadium that Latin food has been sold there. A concession stand that sold burritos was open for just one season a few years ago. The new stand illustrates the team&#8217;s eagerness to find ways to win Hispanic fans and bring the flavor of its home borough into the stadium. Another stand, now in its third season at the stadium, reflects the borough&#8217;s Italian roots: Mike&#8217;s Deli, a branch of the popular establishment on Arthur Avenue, serves meatball parmigiana heroes and other Italian sandwiches. &#8220;It&#8217;s silly to think that each person out of the 50,000 fans that come to a game want to eat the same food,&#8221; said Jason Zillo, a spokesman for the . &#8220;The Latin community is a huge part of our fan base. As we evolve as an organization, we&#8217;re looking to cater to the needs of the diverse number of people that come through the turnstiles.&#8221; The food at Salsa on the Go is prepared by the Bronx-based Salsa Caterers and Special Events, using ingredients and products from Goya Foods, the largest Hispanic-owned food company in the country. The stand, which is operated by Salsa Caterers, started serving on April 2, when the Yankees opened their season at home against the Tampa Bay Devil Rays For some Hispanic fans and those involved in running the stand, Salsa on the Go is a kind of milestone, earning Latin food a prominent place among the stadium&#8217;s traditional ballpark fare. For others, it is long overdue. &#8220;Considering the demographic changes in the city, it&#8217;s something they should have done a long time ago,&#8221; said Angelo Falc&#243;n, the president and founder of the National Institute for Latino Policy, a research and advocacy group based in New York. The stadium&#8217;s 44 food stands feed a large and hungry crowd: The team&#8217;s average home-game attendance as of Wednesday was 49,294, the highest in Major League Baseball. Hot dogs, not surprisingly, are the stadium&#8217;s top seller. About 30,000 are sold at each game, in addition to about 8,000 pretzels, according to managers at Centerplate, the company that oversees the stadium&#8217;s concessions. While the sales of empanadas are nowhere near those of hot dogs, Daniel R. Garcia, 45, the president of Salsa Caterers and Special Events, said he was confident that Latin food would become a stadium staple. Sales at Salsa on the Go have steadily increased from one game to the next, he said. Mr. Garcia, who grew up about three miles from the stadium, in the Hunts Point neighborhood, is particularly proud of his empanadas, fried pockets of dough usually filled with meat, cheese or fruit. The empanadas, which are cooked at Salsa Caterers&#8217; headquarters on Third Avenue in the Bronx and delivered to the stadium, are based on his Uncle Julio&#8217;s recipe. &#8220;They&#8217;re tasting them, and we&#8217;re getting the return customer coming back for them,&#8221; Mr. Garcia said. The stand is in the field-level food court in Section 20, in a tight space where corned beef and pastrami sandwiches used to be sold. Midway through Tuesday&#8217;s game, a long line formed to its left at a concession stand serving order after order of chicken fingers and fries. Another line formed to its right at Beers of the World. There was no waiting at Salsa on the Go. Mr. Garcia stood to the side in a Yankees cap and tan suit. He is already considering changes to the menu, including adding Latin-style fried chicken strips to draw in more chicken lovers. Though there is a large variety of food at the stadium, one thing remains the same &#151; the prices. The empanada costs $5 and the Cuban sandwich with plaintain chips costs $9.75. Next door, the chicken fingers and fries are $9.50. More Articles in New York Region &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. The Hon. Mr. Tailgate, Gathering No Moss Before the Sunday Kickoff, Tailgating With Gusto A Ballpark Where Yogurt and Fresh Fruit Vie With Tradition Food; Missing Home Plate More Articles in New York Region &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Bush in Accord With Democrats on Trade Deals President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds Role of F.B.I. Informer Draws Praise and Questions On Carrier in Gulf, Cheney Issues Warning to Iran Romney Works to Put Skeptics' Doubts to Rest Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics Yankee Stadium, Opening Day - 1923 N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/09/dining/09kool.html?ex=1336363200&en=7a27f33dc04d4371&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills - New York Times A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Tony Cenicola/The New York Times Sign In to E-Mail or Save This By JOHN T. EDGE Published: May 9, 2007 Skip to next paragraph Kate Medley for The New York Times Kate Medley for The New York Times FOR KIDS YOUNG AND OLD Beverly Boddie would like to trademark the Kool-Aid pickles she makes and sells at her grocery store in Cleveland, Miss. Kate Medley for The New York Times Green and red ones are her specialty. A GALLON jar of pickles sits near the register at Lee’s Washerette and Food Market, a mustard-colored cinder-block bunker on the western fringe of this Mississippi Delta town. Those pickles were once mere dills. They were once green. Their exteriors remain pebbly, a reminder that long ago they began their lives on a farm, on the ground, as cucumbers. But they now have an arresting color that combines green and garnet, and a bracing sour-sweet taste that they owe to a long marinade in cherry or tropical fruit or strawberry Kool-Aid. Kool-Aid pickles violate tradition, maybe even propriety. Depending on your palate and perspective, they are either the worst thing to happen to pickles since plastic brining barrels or a brave new taste sensation to be celebrated. The pickles have been spotted as far afield as Dallas and St. Louis, but their cult is thickest in the Delta region, among the black majority population. In the Delta, where they fetch between 50 cents and a dollar, Kool-Aid pickles have earned valued space next to such beloved snacks as pickled eggs and pigs’ feet at community fairs, convenience stores and filling stations. And as their appeal has widened, some people have seen a good business opportunity. Even the lawyers have gotten involved. Children are the primary consumers, but a recent trip through the region revealed that the market for Kool-Aid pickles is maturing. At Carver Upper Elementary School in Indianola, students in Jodi Sumner’s third-grade class have no reservations about the propriety of cucumbers flavored with vinegar and drink mix. When this writer, lugging a jar of tropical-fruit-flavored pickles, recently asked the 29 students who liked to eat Kool-Aid pickles, 29 hands shot up. The names came fast: Ladarius, Fredericka and Kobreana, among others. So did the impressions: “It’s a candy pickle.” And “I like it the same as dipping hot Cheetos in ice cream.” And “Have you ever tried one with a watermelon Blow Pop?” followed by a pantomime of how the Blow Pop stick can be inserted so that the candy appears as a knob at one end of the pickle, allowing the eater to alternate between bites of sour-sweet pickle and licks of sweet-sour Blow Pop. Nobody knows just who first decided that pickles would be improved by a bath in sugared drink mix, or when, but the invention seems to be of fairly recent provenance. Typically, Kool-Aid pickle fans were born some time after moved into the White House. Billie Williams, 56, a special-education teacher at Carver Elementary, never saw one when she was a child. But she did eat dill pickles impaled on peppermint sticks, and she remembers how friends sucked the juice from cut lemons through peppermint sticks repurposed as straws. “That’s the same kind of taste,” she said. “Same as how they used to dip pickle spears in dry Kool-Aid mix for that pucker.” The school sells Kool-Aid pickles from the popular red flavor family at its fund-raisers. “They’re easy to make a gallon,” Ms. Williams said. “You pull the pickles from the jar, cut them in halves, make double-strength Kool-Aid, add a pound of sugar, shake and let it sit — best in the refrigerator — for about a week. The taste takes to anything. A while back I made a mistake and bought a jar of pickle chips instead of halves or wholes. Came out fine. This whole Kool-Aid pickle thing is going so good, you wonder why somebody hasn’t put a patent on them.” No patent application has been filed, but the name Kool-Aid is a trademark owned by Kraft Foods. Upon learning of the pickles, Bridget MacConnell, a senior manager of corporate affairs at Kraft, recovered, and then pronounced, “We endorse our consumers’ finding innovative ways to use our products.” Most of the children at Carver — perhaps most of the children in the Delta — buy their Kool-Aid pickles from unlicensed house stores, operated by neighborhood elders who, seated at their kitchen tables, sell snacks and chips and candy to anyone who comes knocking. (If these folks sold whiskey instead of pickles, their enterprises would be known as shot houses.) Ms. Sumner’s students praised in particular “the lady on Quick Circle whose dogs bark when you walk up” and “the woman who stays on Slim Street who sells nachos, too.” At the Stephensville Mini-Mart, set amid the cotton fields and catfish ponds between Shaw and Indianola, the owner, Hugh Davis, began stocking Kool-Aid pickles earlier this year at the behest of local children. “They’re not for me,” said Mr. Davis, 66. “It’s the kids who’ve done it. They’ll create a line of food for you; they’ll dab a little something here and there and make it their own. They’re good at inventing.” Recently, some Delta grocers began selling jars of ready-made pickles. And entrepreneurs are emerging. At Lambard’s Wholesale Meats in Cleveland, Allen Williams sells plastic gallon jugs of Best Maid dills, plastered with the Kool-Aid packs that denote the flavor within. (Mr. Williams declined to reveal who actually makes his Kool-Aid pickles.) Across town at Eastend Grocery, Beverly and Claud Boddie stand behind their products. They have honed proprietary recipes for green and red flavors that involve piercing the pickles with a fork and stirring together multiple Kool-Aid flavors to achieve maximum pucker. Ms. Boddie, 37, wants to apply for a trademark as “soon as I can raise some money and settle on a name.” She’d better get a move on. Double Quick, the Indianola-based chain of more than 30 Delta convenience stores (famous in some circles for a singing group, the Double Quick Gospel Choir, composed of store managers and supervisors), has begun pursuing a trademark for Koolickle, a name coined by Rick Beuning, its director of food service. “I’m a white boy from the Midwest,” said Mr. Beuning, 53. “This isn’t my food, but I know a good product when I see one.” Next Article in Dining & Wine (3 of 17) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. QUICK BITE | Riverside; A Quick and Tasty Trip to Tokyo DINING/WESTPORT; For an Indian Standby, New Name, Added Variety THE WAY WE LIVE NOW: 2-11-07: DOMAINS; The Restaurant Moguls Retreat Next Article in Dining & Wine (3 of 17) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Bush in Accord With Democrats on Trade Deals President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds Role of F.B.I. Informer Draws Praise and Questions On Carrier in Gulf, Cheney Issues Warning to Iran Romney Works to Put Skeptics' Doubts to Rest Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/09/dining/09kool.html?ex=1336363200&en=7a27f33dc04d4371&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills - New York Times A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Tony Cenicola/The New York Times Sign In to E-Mail or Save This By JOHN T. EDGE Published: May 9, 2007 Skip to next paragraph Kate Medley for The New York Times Kate Medley for The New York Times FOR KIDS YOUNG AND OLD Beverly Boddie would like to trademark the Kool-Aid pickles she makes and sells at her grocery store in Cleveland, Miss. Kate Medley for The New York Times Green and red ones are her specialty. A GALLON jar of pickles sits near the register at Lee’s Washerette and Food Market, a mustard-colored cinder-block bunker on the western fringe of this Mississippi Delta town. Those pickles were once mere dills. They were once green. Their exteriors remain pebbly, a reminder that long ago they began their lives on a farm, on the ground, as cucumbers. But they now have an arresting color that combines green and garnet, and a bracing sour-sweet taste that they owe to a long marinade in cherry or tropical fruit or strawberry Kool-Aid. Kool-Aid pickles violate tradition, maybe even propriety. Depending on your palate and perspective, they are either the worst thing to happen to pickles since plastic brining barrels or a brave new taste sensation to be celebrated. The pickles have been spotted as far afield as Dallas and St. Louis, but their cult is thickest in the Delta region, among the black majority population. In the Delta, where they fetch between 50 cents and a dollar, Kool-Aid pickles have earned valued space next to such beloved snacks as pickled eggs and pigs’ feet at community fairs, convenience stores and filling stations. And as their appeal has widened, some people have seen a good business opportunity. Even the lawyers have gotten involved. Children are the primary consumers, but a recent trip through the region revealed that the market for Kool-Aid pickles is maturing. At Carver Upper Elementary School in Indianola, students in Jodi Sumner’s third-grade class have no reservations about the propriety of cucumbers flavored with vinegar and drink mix. When this writer, lugging a jar of tropical-fruit-flavored pickles, recently asked the 29 students who liked to eat Kool-Aid pickles, 29 hands shot up. The names came fast: Ladarius, Fredericka and Kobreana, among others. So did the impressions: “It’s a candy pickle.” And “I like it the same as dipping hot Cheetos in ice cream.” And “Have you ever tried one with a watermelon Blow Pop?” followed by a pantomime of how the Blow Pop stick can be inserted so that the candy appears as a knob at one end of the pickle, allowing the eater to alternate between bites of sour-sweet pickle and licks of sweet-sour Blow Pop. Nobody knows just who first decided that pickles would be improved by a bath in sugared drink mix, or when, but the invention seems to be of fairly recent provenance. Typically, Kool-Aid pickle fans were born some time after moved into the White House. Billie Williams, 56, a special-education teacher at Carver Elementary, never saw one when she was a child. But she did eat dill pickles impaled on peppermint sticks, and she remembers how friends sucked the juice from cut lemons through peppermint sticks repurposed as straws. “That’s the same kind of taste,” she said. “Same as how they used to dip pickle spears in dry Kool-Aid mix for that pucker.” The school sells Kool-Aid pickles from the popular red flavor family at its fund-raisers. “They’re easy to make a gallon,” Ms. Williams said. “You pull the pickles from the jar, cut them in halves, make double-strength Kool-Aid, add a pound of sugar, shake and let it sit — best in the refrigerator — for about a week. The taste takes to anything. A while back I made a mistake and bought a jar of pickle chips instead of halves or wholes. Came out fine. This whole Kool-Aid pickle thing is going so good, you wonder why somebody hasn’t put a patent on them.” No patent application has been filed, but the name Kool-Aid is a trademark owned by Kraft Foods. Upon learning of the pickles, Bridget MacConnell, a senior manager of corporate affairs at Kraft, recovered, and then pronounced, “We endorse our consumers’ finding innovative ways to use our products.” Most of the children at Carver — perhaps most of the children in the Delta — buy their Kool-Aid pickles from unlicensed house stores, operated by neighborhood elders who, seated at their kitchen tables, sell snacks and chips and candy to anyone who comes knocking. (If these folks sold whiskey instead of pickles, their enterprises would be known as shot houses.) Ms. Sumner’s students praised in particular “the lady on Quick Circle whose dogs bark when you walk up” and “the woman who stays on Slim Street who sells nachos, too.” At the Stephensville Mini-Mart, set amid the cotton fields and catfish ponds between Shaw and Indianola, the owner, Hugh Davis, began stocking Kool-Aid pickles earlier this year at the behest of local children. “They’re not for me,” said Mr. Davis, 66. “It’s the kids who’ve done it. They’ll create a line of food for you; they’ll dab a little something here and there and make it their own. They’re good at inventing.” Recently, some Delta grocers began selling jars of ready-made pickles. And entrepreneurs are emerging. At Lambard’s Wholesale Meats in Cleveland, Allen Williams sells plastic gallon jugs of Best Maid dills, plastered with the Kool-Aid packs that denote the flavor within. (Mr. Williams declined to reveal who actually makes his Kool-Aid pickles.) Across town at Eastend Grocery, Beverly and Claud Boddie stand behind their products. They have honed proprietary recipes for green and red flavors that involve piercing the pickles with a fork and stirring together multiple Kool-Aid flavors to achieve maximum pucker. Ms. Boddie, 37, wants to apply for a trademark as “soon as I can raise some money and settle on a name.” She’d better get a move on. Double Quick, the Indianola-based chain of more than 30 Delta convenience stores (famous in some circles for a singing group, the Double Quick Gospel Choir, composed of store managers and supervisors), has begun pursuing a trademark for Koolickle, a name coined by Rick Beuning, its director of food service. “I’m a white boy from the Midwest,” said Mr. Beuning, 53. “This isn’t my food, but I know a good product when I see one.” Next Article in Dining & Wine (3 of 17) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. QUICK BITE | Riverside; A Quick and Tasty Trip to Tokyo DINING/WESTPORT; For an Indian Standby, New Name, Added Variety THE WAY WE LIVE NOW: 2-11-07: DOMAINS; The Restaurant Moguls Retreat Next Article in Dining & Wine (3 of 17) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Bush in Accord With Democrats on Trade Deals President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds Role of F.B.I. Informer Draws Praise and Questions On Carrier in Gulf, Cheney Issues Warning to Iran Romney Works to Put Skeptics' Doubts to Rest Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/09/dining/09kool.html	A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills - New York Times A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Tony Cenicola/The New York Times Sign In to E-Mail or Save This By JOHN T. EDGE Published: May 9, 2007 Skip to next paragraph Kate Medley for The New York Times Kate Medley for The New York Times FOR KIDS YOUNG AND OLD Beverly Boddie would like to trademark the Kool-Aid pickles she makes and sells at her grocery store in Cleveland, Miss. Kate Medley for The New York Times Green and red ones are her specialty. A GALLON jar of pickles sits near the register at Lee’s Washerette and Food Market, a mustard-colored cinder-block bunker on the western fringe of this Mississippi Delta town. Those pickles were once mere dills. They were once green. Their exteriors remain pebbly, a reminder that long ago they began their lives on a farm, on the ground, as cucumbers. But they now have an arresting color that combines green and garnet, and a bracing sour-sweet taste that they owe to a long marinade in cherry or tropical fruit or strawberry Kool-Aid. Kool-Aid pickles violate tradition, maybe even propriety. Depending on your palate and perspective, they are either the worst thing to happen to pickles since plastic brining barrels or a brave new taste sensation to be celebrated. The pickles have been spotted as far afield as Dallas and St. Louis, but their cult is thickest in the Delta region, among the black majority population. In the Delta, where they fetch between 50 cents and a dollar, Kool-Aid pickles have earned valued space next to such beloved snacks as pickled eggs and pigs’ feet at community fairs, convenience stores and filling stations. And as their appeal has widened, some people have seen a good business opportunity. Even the lawyers have gotten involved. Children are the primary consumers, but a recent trip through the region revealed that the market for Kool-Aid pickles is maturing. At Carver Upper Elementary School in Indianola, students in Jodi Sumner’s third-grade class have no reservations about the propriety of cucumbers flavored with vinegar and drink mix. When this writer, lugging a jar of tropical-fruit-flavored pickles, recently asked the 29 students who liked to eat Kool-Aid pickles, 29 hands shot up. The names came fast: Ladarius, Fredericka and Kobreana, among others. So did the impressions: “It’s a candy pickle.” And “I like it the same as dipping hot Cheetos in ice cream.” And “Have you ever tried one with a watermelon Blow Pop?” followed by a pantomime of how the Blow Pop stick can be inserted so that the candy appears as a knob at one end of the pickle, allowing the eater to alternate between bites of sour-sweet pickle and licks of sweet-sour Blow Pop. Nobody knows just who first decided that pickles would be improved by a bath in sugared drink mix, or when, but the invention seems to be of fairly recent provenance. Typically, Kool-Aid pickle fans were born some time after moved into the White House. Billie Williams, 56, a special-education teacher at Carver Elementary, never saw one when she was a child. But she did eat dill pickles impaled on peppermint sticks, and she remembers how friends sucked the juice from cut lemons through peppermint sticks repurposed as straws. “That’s the same kind of taste,” she said. “Same as how they used to dip pickle spears in dry Kool-Aid mix for that pucker.” The school sells Kool-Aid pickles from the popular red flavor family at its fund-raisers. “They’re easy to make a gallon,” Ms. Williams said. “You pull the pickles from the jar, cut them in halves, make double-strength Kool-Aid, add a pound of sugar, shake and let it sit — best in the refrigerator — for about a week. The taste takes to anything. A while back I made a mistake and bought a jar of pickle chips instead of halves or wholes. Came out fine. This whole Kool-Aid pickle thing is going so good, you wonder why somebody hasn’t put a patent on them.” No patent application has been filed, but the name Kool-Aid is a trademark owned by Kraft Foods. Upon learning of the pickles, Bridget MacConnell, a senior manager of corporate affairs at Kraft, recovered, and then pronounced, “We endorse our consumers’ finding innovative ways to use our products.” Most of the children at Carver — perhaps most of the children in the Delta — buy their Kool-Aid pickles from unlicensed house stores, operated by neighborhood elders who, seated at their kitchen tables, sell snacks and chips and candy to anyone who comes knocking. (If these folks sold whiskey instead of pickles, their enterprises would be known as shot houses.) Ms. Sumner’s students praised in particular “the lady on Quick Circle whose dogs bark when you walk up” and “the woman who stays on Slim Street who sells nachos, too.” At the Stephensville Mini-Mart, set amid the cotton fields and catfish ponds between Shaw and Indianola, the owner, Hugh Davis, began stocking Kool-Aid pickles earlier this year at the behest of local children. “They’re not for me,” said Mr. Davis, 66. “It’s the kids who’ve done it. They’ll create a line of food for you; they’ll dab a little something here and there and make it their own. They’re good at inventing.” Recently, some Delta grocers began selling jars of ready-made pickles. And entrepreneurs are emerging. At Lambard’s Wholesale Meats in Cleveland, Allen Williams sells plastic gallon jugs of Best Maid dills, plastered with the Kool-Aid packs that denote the flavor within. (Mr. Williams declined to reveal who actually makes his Kool-Aid pickles.) Across town at Eastend Grocery, Beverly and Claud Boddie stand behind their products. They have honed proprietary recipes for green and red flavors that involve piercing the pickles with a fork and stirring together multiple Kool-Aid flavors to achieve maximum pucker. Ms. Boddie, 37, wants to apply for a trademark as “soon as I can raise some money and settle on a name.” She’d better get a move on. Double Quick, the Indianola-based chain of more than 30 Delta convenience stores (famous in some circles for a singing group, the Double Quick Gospel Choir, composed of store managers and supervisors), has begun pursuing a trademark for Koolickle, a name coined by Rick Beuning, its director of food service. “I’m a white boy from the Midwest,” said Mr. Beuning, 53. “This isn’t my food, but I know a good product when I see one.” Next Article in Dining & Wine (3 of 17) &#x00bb; Gain access to The Archive - get it now with TimesSelect To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. QUICK BITE | Riverside; A Quick and Tasty Trip to Tokyo DINING/WESTPORT; For an Indian Standby, New Name, Added Variety THE WAY WE LIVE NOW: 2-11-07: DOMAINS; The Restaurant Moguls Retreat Next Article in Dining & Wine (3 of 17) &#x00bb; The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics Find home & garden professionals in your area today In Home & Garden: View all Home & Garden Classifieds Post Your Ad Now! N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/09/dining/09kool.html	A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills - New York Times A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Tony Cenicola/The New York Times Sign In to E-Mail or Save This By JOHN T. EDGE Published: May 9, 2007 Skip to next paragraph Kate Medley for The New York Times Kate Medley for The New York Times FOR KIDS YOUNG AND OLD Beverly Boddie would like to trademark the Kool-Aid pickles she makes and sells at her grocery store in Cleveland, Miss. Kate Medley for The New York Times Green and red ones are her specialty. A GALLON jar of pickles sits near the register at Lee’s Washerette and Food Market, a mustard-colored cinder-block bunker on the western fringe of this Mississippi Delta town. Those pickles were once mere dills. They were once green. Their exteriors remain pebbly, a reminder that long ago they began their lives on a farm, on the ground, as cucumbers. But they now have an arresting color that combines green and garnet, and a bracing sour-sweet taste that they owe to a long marinade in cherry or tropical fruit or strawberry Kool-Aid. Kool-Aid pickles violate tradition, maybe even propriety. Depending on your palate and perspective, they are either the worst thing to happen to pickles since plastic brining barrels or a brave new taste sensation to be celebrated. The pickles have been spotted as far afield as Dallas and St. Louis, but their cult is thickest in the Delta region, among the black majority population. In the Delta, where they fetch between 50 cents and a dollar, Kool-Aid pickles have earned valued space next to such beloved snacks as pickled eggs and pigs’ feet at community fairs, convenience stores and filling stations. And as their appeal has widened, some people have seen a good business opportunity. Even the lawyers have gotten involved. Children are the primary consumers, but a recent trip through the region revealed that the market for Kool-Aid pickles is maturing. At Carver Upper Elementary School in Indianola, students in Jodi Sumner’s third-grade class have no reservations about the propriety of cucumbers flavored with vinegar and drink mix. When this writer, lugging a jar of tropical-fruit-flavored pickles, recently asked the 29 students who liked to eat Kool-Aid pickles, 29 hands shot up. The names came fast: Ladarius, Fredericka and Kobreana, among others. So did the impressions: “It’s a candy pickle.” And “I like it the same as dipping hot Cheetos in ice cream.” And “Have you ever tried one with a watermelon Blow Pop?” followed by a pantomime of how the Blow Pop stick can be inserted so that the candy appears as a knob at one end of the pickle, allowing the eater to alternate between bites of sour-sweet pickle and licks of sweet-sour Blow Pop. Nobody knows just who first decided that pickles would be improved by a bath in sugared drink mix, or when, but the invention seems to be of fairly recent provenance. Typically, Kool-Aid pickle fans were born some time after moved into the White House. Billie Williams, 56, a special-education teacher at Carver Elementary, never saw one when she was a child. But she did eat dill pickles impaled on peppermint sticks, and she remembers how friends sucked the juice from cut lemons through peppermint sticks repurposed as straws. “That’s the same kind of taste,” she said. “Same as how they used to dip pickle spears in dry Kool-Aid mix for that pucker.” The school sells Kool-Aid pickles from the popular red flavor family at its fund-raisers. “They’re easy to make a gallon,” Ms. Williams said. “You pull the pickles from the jar, cut them in halves, make double-strength Kool-Aid, add a pound of sugar, shake and let it sit — best in the refrigerator — for about a week. The taste takes to anything. A while back I made a mistake and bought a jar of pickle chips instead of halves or wholes. Came out fine. This whole Kool-Aid pickle thing is going so good, you wonder why somebody hasn’t put a patent on them.” No patent application has been filed, but the name Kool-Aid is a trademark owned by Kraft Foods. Upon learning of the pickles, Bridget MacConnell, a senior manager of corporate affairs at Kraft, recovered, and then pronounced, “We endorse our consumers’ finding innovative ways to use our products.” Most of the children at Carver — perhaps most of the children in the Delta — buy their Kool-Aid pickles from unlicensed house stores, operated by neighborhood elders who, seated at their kitchen tables, sell snacks and chips and candy to anyone who comes knocking. (If these folks sold whiskey instead of pickles, their enterprises would be known as shot houses.) Ms. Sumner’s students praised in particular “the lady on Quick Circle whose dogs bark when you walk up” and “the woman who stays on Slim Street who sells nachos, too.” At the Stephensville Mini-Mart, set amid the cotton fields and catfish ponds between Shaw and Indianola, the owner, Hugh Davis, began stocking Kool-Aid pickles earlier this year at the behest of local children. “They’re not for me,” said Mr. Davis, 66. “It’s the kids who’ve done it. They’ll create a line of food for you; they’ll dab a little something here and there and make it their own. They’re good at inventing.” Recently, some Delta grocers began selling jars of ready-made pickles. And entrepreneurs are emerging. At Lambard’s Wholesale Meats in Cleveland, Allen Williams sells plastic gallon jugs of Best Maid dills, plastered with the Kool-Aid packs that denote the flavor within. (Mr. Williams declined to reveal who actually makes his Kool-Aid pickles.) Across town at Eastend Grocery, Beverly and Claud Boddie stand behind their products. They have honed proprietary recipes for green and red flavors that involve piercing the pickles with a fork and stirring together multiple Kool-Aid flavors to achieve maximum pucker. Ms. Boddie, 37, wants to apply for a trademark as “soon as I can raise some money and settle on a name.” She’d better get a move on. Double Quick, the Indianola-based chain of more than 30 Delta convenience stores (famous in some circles for a singing group, the Double Quick Gospel Choir, composed of store managers and supervisors), has begun pursuing a trademark for Koolickle, a name coined by Rick Beuning, its director of food service. “I’m a white boy from the Midwest,” said Mr. Beuning, 53. “This isn’t my food, but I know a good product when I see one.” Next Article in Dining & Wine (3 of 17) &#x00bb; Gain access to The Archive - get it now with TimesSelect To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. QUICK BITE | Riverside; A Quick and Tasty Trip to Tokyo DINING/WESTPORT; For an Indian Standby, New Name, Added Variety THE WAY WE LIVE NOW: 2-11-07: DOMAINS; The Restaurant Moguls Retreat Next Article in Dining & Wine (3 of 17) &#x00bb; The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics Find home & garden professionals in your area today In Home & Garden: View all Home & Garden Classifieds Post Your Ad Now! N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
