http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/I/ID_CALDER_SHOOTINGS_WAOL-?SITE=MOJOP&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	The Joplin Globe - Online Edition The Joplin Globe • 117 E. Fourth St. • Joplin, MO 64801 • (417) 623-3480 • (800) 444-8514 • Fax [417] 623-8450 9 Days in Haiti Advertise with The Globe May 11, 8:10 AM EDT Three dead in apparent homicide-suicide in north Idaho CALDER, Idaho (AP) -- An elderly couple and a younger man were found dead and a woman survived a head wound after being shot at a remote house outside this north Idaho hamlet, Shoshone County sheriff's deputies said. Deputies gave few details early Friday, but neighbors said a distraught man had wounded his estranged wife, killed her parents and committed suicide Thursday evening in a small wooden house a few hundred yards from the nearest dwellings. Sheriff's Sgt. Derek Dofelmire told The Associated Press the survivor was Rose Turner and one of the dead was Ricky Turner. He would not identify the elderly man and woman. Rose Turner was "very lucky" to be alive and was flown to Sacred Heart Medical Center in Spokane, Wash., where "she has been able to provide information to our investigators," Dofelmire said. More than one gun was recovered at the scene, he added. Shoshone and Benewah deputies closed a road off U.S. Forest Service Road 50, the St. Joe River Road, in the Idaho Panhandle about two miles east of Calder and 65 miles east-southeast of Spokane. Neighbors told The Spokesman-Review of Spokane and KXLY and KREM Television that Ricky Turner is Rose Turner's estranged husband and committed suicide after shooting her and her parents. The Turners had three children, Ricky Turner was disabled, Rose Turner worked at a nursing home and her parents lived with her at the house, one neighbor, Julie "Tiny" Codoni, told the newspaper. She said Ricky Turner was despondent over their divorce, which was scheduled to take effect Thursday. When she talked to him Wednesday, "he was in really bad shape. He was hurting," Codoni said. "He loved her. She was his life." &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our © 2003 The Joplin Globe Publishing Company. Terms of use for this service. Read our privacy guidelines.
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/W/WA_BESTIALITY_CHARGE_WAOL-?SITE=MOJOP&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	The Joplin Globe - Online Edition The Joplin Globe • 117 E. Fourth St. • Joplin, MO 64801 • (417) 623-3480 • (800) 444-8514 • Fax [417] 623-8450 9 Days in Haiti Advertise with The Globe May 11, 1:41 AM EDT Jury acquits WA man of bestiality charge TACOMA, Wash. (AP) -- A Pierce County jury has acquitted a man accused of having sex with the family dog. Michael Patrick McPhail, 26, of Spanaway, was found not guilty Wednesday in Pierce County Superior Court of first-degree animal cruelty. Assistant Pierce County Prosecutor Karen Watson said last fall that McPhail was the first person charged in the county under a new state law that made bestiality a felony. "I'm glad that justice was able to see it wasn't an action of my doing," McPhail said as he left the court building. He said he believes his wife made up the story because she is seeking to end their marriage. It was Jesika McPhail who contacted police and told them she'd caught her husband engaged in sexual intercourse with their pit bull, Sara, last October. Jesika McPhail was not immediately available for comment about the verdict. The case generated outrage among animal welfare advocates across the globe, many of whom called for McPhail to be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law. Deputy Prosecutor Brian Leech, who tried the case, said he was disappointed. "Obviously, I thought the facts were more than sufficient to merit a conviction," Leech said. "The defense was able to introduce some evidence about strife in the marriage. I don't think that was supported, but apparently the jury gave it some weight." The new law, which took effect last June, was prompted by a case in which a Seattle man died after having sex with a horse. Before the law was enacted, Washington was among roughly a dozen states where bestiality had not been explicitly prohibited. Information from: The News Tribune, &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our © 2003 The Joplin Globe Publishing Company. Terms of use for this service. Read our privacy guidelines.
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/O/OR_BRF_SMALL_PLANE_CRASH_WAOL-?SITE=MOJOP&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	The Joplin Globe - Online Edition The Joplin Globe • 117 E. Fourth St. • Joplin, MO 64801 • (417) 623-3480 • (800) 444-8514 • Fax [417] 623-8450 9 Days in Haiti Advertise with The Globe May 10, 9:24 PM EDT Two die in plane crash near Idaho-Oregon border NYSSA, Ore. (AP) -- An experimental plane crashed Thursday in a field near the Idaho border, killing the two men aboard, authorities said. The victims, both experienced pilots, were Lyndon Wheeler, 57, and Orville "Vard" Olsen, 71, both of Nyssa, said Malheur County Undersheriff Brian Wolfe. A farm worker said he heard the plane fly over, but did not hear anything that would indicate it was having problems before it nose-dived and crashed into the field, officials said. Federal Aviation Administration investigators from Boise, Idaho, headed to the scene, KTVB-TV of Boise reported. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our © 2003 The Joplin Globe Publishing Company. Terms of use for this service. Read our privacy guidelines.
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/W/WA_PROSECUTORS_MCKAY_WAOL-?SITE=MOJOP&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	The Joplin Globe - Online Edition The Joplin Globe • 117 E. Fourth St. • Joplin, MO 64801 • (417) 623-3480 • (800) 444-8514 • Fax [417] 623-8450 9 Days in Haiti Advertise with The Globe May 10, 4:16 PM EDT Gonzales 'not aware' of DOJ using Wales killing to explain firing AP Legal Affairs Writer SEATTLE (AP) -- Attorney General Alberto Gonzales acknowledged Thursday there was a "great deal of concern" in some quarters about former U.S. Attorney John McKay's handling of election fraud allegations during the 2004 election in Washington state. But he said he doesn't know if that's why McKay was placed on a list of U.S. attorneys to be fired in March 2005. Testifying before the House Judiciary Committee in the nation's capital, Gonzales also said he didn't know if McKay might have been fired because he pushed for appropriate resources to investigate the slaying of Assistant U.S. Attorney Thomas Wales. Kyle Sampson, Gonzales' former chief of staff and the person who compiled the list of prosecutors to be fired, raised the possibility in a closed-door interview with congressional investigators last month that McKay made the list for pushing too hard on the Wales investigation, from which his office is recused. McKay has called that suggestion "mind-numbing." Wales was shot to death as he worked in his basement the night of Oct. 11, 2001. "If that was a reason why he was included as part of the recommended group, that's something you'd have to ask others involved in this process," Gonzales said in response to questioning from Rep. Mel Watt, D-N.C. "I'm not aware the department, however, is using that as a reason or excuse." Gonzales said he learned about concerns related to the Wales case "very, very recently." "Yeah, he wasn't aware of it until Kyle Sampson made it up," McKay said after learning of the attorney general's comments. Watt pressed Gonzales on whether the real reason McKay made the list were allegations that he should have brought claims of election fraud in the 2004 election, won after two recounts by Democrat Chris Gregoire, to a grand jury. Gonzales said he doesn't recall such concerns being in his mind when he agreed to fire McKay. "I don't recall that when I accepted the recommendation that that was a reason for it, was his efforts with respect to voter fraud," Gonzales said. "But clearly, going back and looking at the documents, there was a great deal of concern with his efforts with respect to voter fraud because I received a number of letters from groups and outside parties ...." Watt interrupted: "So you didn't fire him for that reason, but somebody might have put him on the list for that reason. That's really what you're saying, Mr. Attorney General." "I'm assuming that this committee has spoken with everyone who provided input, and of course the person who was compiling the information, Mr. Sampson, would know better than I," Gonzales replied. Watt started his questioning by noting that in testimony on April 19, Gonzales said McKay was fired for the way he pursued an information-sharing project and for comments he made to the Seattle Post-Intelligencer citing his concerns about budget cuts and unfilled positions in his office. In reality, McKay's appearance on the March 2005 hit list long predated those issues, which didn't arise until last summer. "Are you aware of any legitimate reason that John McKay should have been forced out as a United States attorney in March 2005, as opposed to the things you talked about that occurred in 2006?" Watt asked. "I would have to go back and look at that, U.S. Rep.," Gonzales said. Gonzales agreed that it would be improper if McKay were pressured to bring an unwarranted election fraud investigation, but also suggested there might have been some legitimacy to the claims raised by GOP groups in the state. He said his office did receive several letters complaining about McKay. At a Seattle University Law School forum on Wednesday, McKay said he himself had concerns about the state's conduct of the 2004 election. But there was absolutely no actual evidence of fraud, he said. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our © 2003 The Joplin Globe Publishing Company. Terms of use for this service. Read our privacy guidelines.
http://hosted.ap.org/	News from The Associated Press
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/W/WA_POWER_PLANT_WAOL-?SITE=MOJOP&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	The Joplin Globe - Online Edition The Joplin Globe • 117 E. Fourth St. • Joplin, MO 64801 • (417) 623-3480 • (800) 444-8514 • Fax [417] 623-8450 9 Days in Haiti Advertise with The Globe May 10, 8:21 PM EDT Energy Northwest asks WA to delay proposed power plant review OLYMPIA, Wash. (AP) -- Energy Northwest has asked the state to delay its permitting review of a proposed $1.5 billion power plant in Kalama following passage of a new climate change bill. Gov. Chris Gregoire last week signed the bill into law, barring Washington utilities from signing long-term contracts with coal-fired power plants that produce excessive greenhouse gases. Greenhouse gases, including carbon dioxide, methane and other gases, essentially trap energy from the sun, which warms the Earth's surface and lower atmosphere. Many scientists believe human activity that increases those gases is contributing to global warming. Energy Northwest, a public power consortium based in Richland, Wash., asked the state Energy Facility Site Evaluation Council in a letter Tuesday to delay its permitting process. The consortium said it wants to wait and see how regulators plan to limit heat-trapping gases. "We don't mean to signal in any way we're walking away from the project," Energy Northwest spokesman Brad Peck said. "We're as committed to this project as the day it started." The new law directs state and federal agencies, electric utilities and "public interest representatives" to write regulations limiting emissions such as carbon dioxide. The state must adopt the rules by June 30, 2008. Energy Northwest urged state regulators to try to adopt the rules by midsummer so it can decide whether to forge ahead or abandon its proposed 680-megawatt coal gasification plant. The project would use coal or petcoke, the waste product from oil refineries, that would be turned into a gas to be burned to generate power. The plant could also burn natural gas. The new law allowed projects like the proposed plant five years to "sequester" carbon dioxide emissions underground. Otherwise, emissions would have to be offset through drastic measures, such as buying a dirty power plant and shutting it down. Energy Northwest has been participating in a study to inject emissions into basalt, which is common in the region. But the utility said it isn't sure five years will be enough time to determine the feasibility of that technique. Moreover, either option for curbing greenhouse gas emissions could significantly increase the cost of power from the project. Energy Northwest wants to know how the law will be implemented before it takes the project to potential customers for financial commitments. Given the uncertainty surrounding implementation of the law and the time required to build major power generation plants, "we must immediately begin looking at alternative options for regional power supplies," Energy Northwest Vice President Jack Baker wrote in the letter. Environmentalists say the delay request could be the beginning of the end for the project. "I think it's a prudent move on their part," said Marc Krasnowsky, a spokesman for the Northwest Energy Coalition. "I think they've concluded their public utility customers are likely to be spending a lot more for the power from the proposed plant than they had expected to." Energy Northwest, which includes 20 public utilities and municipalities, operates a nuclear power plant near Richland and a hydropower project, as well as wind, solar and biomass power projects. The state energy council is in the midst of a year-plus review of the application for the proposed plant. The council then makes a recommendation to the governor, who has the final say on whether large power plants are approved. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our © 2003 The Joplin Globe Publishing Company. Terms of use for this service. Read our privacy guidelines.
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/W/WA_HERITAGE_25TH_WAOL-?SITE=MOJOP&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	The Joplin Globe - Online Edition The Joplin Globe • 117 E. Fourth St. • Joplin, MO 64801 • (417) 623-3480 • (800) 444-8514 • Fax [417] 623-8450 9 Days in Haiti Advertise with The Globe May 10, 10:02 PM EDT Heritage University celebrates 25 years TOPPENISH, Wash. (AP) -- Heritage University celebrates its 25th graduating class Saturday, a milestone for the Yakima Valley's first four-year college - created by three women to improve educational opportunities for the region's multicultural population. Kathleen Ross, the school's president since it began offering undergraduate and graduate degrees in 1982, called the silver anniversary "a glorious milestone" that represents a wave of graduates who have ventured out to build the future. She also said the milestone signifies that "we can think even more creatively and expansively for the next 25 years." Originally known as Heritage College, the school was founded in 1981 by Ross, a Catholic nun, and two Yakama Nation tribal members as a successor to Spokane's Fort Wright College. The school began offering degrees a year later as an independent, nonprofit college with only a handful of students and staff and a few modest buildings and trailers surrounded by hops fields about 20 miles southeast of Yakima. The school became Heritage University in August 2004. Enrollment has grown to more than 1,500 students, and the school has regional sites in several cities, including Yakima, Omak, Wenatchee and Moses Lake. From the beginning, the mission has been to bring a quality liberal arts education to a multicultural population. Some 6,000 degrees have been conferred since the school's founding. At Saturday's commencement, 374 degrees will be awarded. "This is celebrating 25 years of support and generosity from the community and bringing education to people who couldn't ordinarily afford it," said Bill Rich, a retired Yakima businessman and member of the university board of directors. "Heritage has been an outstanding success, and the best is yet to come," he said. Heritage extends undergraduate degrees in business, the humanities, computer science, scientific disciplines, nursing, education, psychology, math and social work. Graduate degrees are also available. At the conclusion of commencement Saturday, the Class of 2007 will release white doves to commemorate the anniversary. Graduates say it's a fitting metaphor for a school that has risen above all expectations. Special events also have been planned throughout the year to highlight the anniversary. Information from: Yakima Herald-Republic, &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our © 2003 The Joplin Globe Publishing Company. Terms of use for this service. Read our privacy guidelines.
http://apdigitalnews.com/privacy.html	AP Digital | Terms of Use
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/W/WA_WASHINGTON_MARRIAGE_WAOL-?SITE=MOJOP&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	The Joplin Globe - Online Edition The Joplin Globe • 117 E. Fourth St. • Joplin, MO 64801 • (417) 623-3480 • (800) 444-8514 • Fax [417] 623-8450 9 Days in Haiti Advertise with The Globe May 11, 8:50 AM EDT Marriage and divorce rates at two-decade low in Washington state SEATTLE (AP) -- Marriage and divorce rates are at a two-decade low in Washington state, and experts are divided on the reason. The state recorded fewer divorces in 2004 than in 1986 despite a 1.7 million population increase, and that's in line with a national trend. The nation's divorce rate, which shot upward following the widespread adoption of state no-fault divorce laws starting in the 1960s to a peak of 5.3 divorces per 1,000 people in 1981, has since fallen to 3.6. In Washington the decline from 1986 to 2004 was from 5.9 to 4.2. "If you have fewer marriages, you are going to have fewer divorces.," said Pepper Schwartz, a University of Washington sociologist. More couples now live together without getting married, and "you can't get divorced unless you are married," Schwartz said. Others note that many couples wait longer to get married, so they have more time to mature and get to know each other. The result, some say, is more durable marriages. Other marriage experts cite a "divorce divide," saying divorce rates are falling substantively among college-educated couples but not among less affluent and less educated couples. "Families with two earners with good jobs have seen an improvement in their standard of living, which leads to less tension at home and lower probability of divorce," said Andrew Cherlin, a professor of public policy at Johns Hopkins University. "People are getting married later now than they ever have, and cohabitation is on the rise," said Les Parrott, co-founder of the Center for Relationship Development at Seattle Pacific University. "So many (young couples) are feeling unprepared for it. They've seen plenty of examples of how marriage doesn't work, so they put it off." With a long engagement, "the couple gets along better," said Heather Edy, owner of Wedding Bell Bliss Bridal Consultation in Seattle. "I truly believe they're more compatible for marriage." Edy, 28, is a fair example. In August she plans to marry Clint Sharpe, 30, whom she has dated for four years and to whom she got engaged on Valentine's Day last year. Nikelle Rosier, a marriage educator and couples therapist in Seattle, said her clients are displaying "more intentionality" in marriage decisions. "What's interesting is that a lot of clients met through Match.com," she said. "They're picking a mate more out of compatibility than just coming across someone and falling in love." Shifting gender roles and expectations also are involved, said Stephanie Coontz, who teaches history and family studies at The Evergreen State College in Olympia. Marriages in the 1950s and '60s were typically based on "pre-assigned" roles of the husband as provider and the wife as mother, she said. "In the last 20 years, people are marrying now as peers with more options outside marriage," Coontz said. "It's more necessary than it used to be to have a very deep friendship and to have good negotiating skills." The "big irony," she said, is that "the very fact that people have options outside marriage in many ways makes them think more carefully about commitment before they do get married." And then there's the aging of baby boomers. "As you're getting older, the less likelier you are of getting divorced," Schwartz said. "You're less likely to run off in your 60s than in your 40s." Information from: Seattle Post-Intelligencer, &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our © 2003 The Joplin Globe Publishing Company. Terms of use for this service. Read our privacy guidelines.
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/W/WA_HOME_ALONE_WAOL-?SITE=MOJOP&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	The Joplin Globe - Online Edition The Joplin Globe • 117 E. Fourth St. • Joplin, MO 64801 • (417) 623-3480 • (800) 444-8514 • Fax [417] 623-8450 9 Days in Haiti Advertise with The Globe May 11, 6:05 AM EDT Three preschool children found home alone in Spokane SPOKANE, Wash. (AP) -- A preschooler called 911 and said, "mom and daddy go bye bye," helping to lead authorities to the discovery of three young children alone in a trash-strewn house with drug paraphernalia. Jennifer K. Rigutto, 34, the mother of two of the children, was arrested when she showed up Thursday after a gambling trip, police Officer William Hager said. She was held for investigation of three counts of child endangerment and one of possession of methamphetamine with intent to deliver, Hager said. The children were taken into custody by state Child Protective Services workers after being alone for as long as four hours. The case arose after child protection workers called the house for a welfare check about 8:45 a.m. Thursday and one of the children answered the phone, Police Lt. Darrell Toombs said. As CPS workers headed to the home, one of the children called 911 and said, "mom and daddy go bye-bye," Hager said. Officers dispatched to the scene were retrieving baby clothes from the master bedroom when they found methamphetamine and requested a search warrant, police said. Rigutto told authorities she left the two boys and a girl, ages 4, 3 and 2, with her ex-husband, William "Shad" Smith, 35, about 5 a.m. to go gambling with her boyfriend. "I would never, never leave my children alone," Rigutto said. Smith was arrested Thursday evening as he was boarding a transit bus and was jailed for investigation of three counts of second-degree child abandonment, Hager said. Police were seeking Rigutto's boyfriend, Michael S. Perry, 30, who also lives at the home and recently was granted custody of his 3-year-old son, who was one of the children in the house, Hager said. The house reeked of unwashed laundry, and the floors apparently had not been swept in weeks with trash thick enough to hinder walking from room to room, Toombs said. Detective John Willard, who specializes in cases involving drug-endangered children, said he had seen worse. "I've been in houses where you come out every five to 10 minutes so you can breathe," Willard said. "It was filthy, not terrible." Information from: The Spokesman-Review, &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our © 2003 The Joplin Globe Publishing Company. Terms of use for this service. Read our privacy guidelines.
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/W/WA_BRF_GATES_FOUNDATION_KATRINA_WAOL-?SITE=MOJOP&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	The Joplin Globe - Online Edition The Joplin Globe • 117 E. Fourth St. • Joplin, MO 64801 • (417) 623-3480 • (800) 444-8514 • Fax [417] 623-8450 9 Days in Haiti Advertise with The Globe May 10, 11:58 PM EDT Gates Foundation gives $7.1M to support Gulf Coast housing SEATTLE (AP) -- The Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation said Thursday it would give $7.1 million to help Gulf Coast organizations advocate for affordable housing and workers' rights. The money, which will be distributed by Oxfam America, is intended to help the people whose homes were destroyed by hurricanes Katrina and Rita and those who have been employed to work on the cleanup. "During the past year and a half, we have seen how many of the Gulf Coast's neediest residents have been denied the resources they need to rebuild their lives - and how the low-wage workers who are making the rebuilding effort possible have been exploited," Raymond C. Offenheiser, president of Oxfam America, said in a statement. He said Oxfam works with local community leaders who are advocating for change in Louisiana and Mississippi. "Inequities that existed before the devastating hurricanes of 2005 have become even more pronounced and new ones have arisen," said Hilary Pennington, director of special initiatives for the Gates Foundation. "This investment, although outside the scope of our usual giving, reflects the enormity of the crisis and our desire to support local organizations so they can grow in expertise and influence." Since 2005, the Gates Foundation has also given money to help displaced students, and refurbish and rebuild libraries on the Gulf Coast. The foundation gives a majority of its grants in the areas of world health, global development and education. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our © 2003 The Joplin Globe Publishing Company. Terms of use for this service. Read our privacy guidelines.
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/S/SEATTLE_U_WAOL-?SITE=WVEC&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	May 11, 7:06 PM EDT Seattle U trustees vote to seek return to Division I athletics SEATTLE (AP) -- Intent on recapturing some of its storied history, Seattle University is returning to Division I athletics. University trustees voted unanimously Thursday to apply for a return to NCAA Division I athletics as an independent. The process would begin immediately, with the 2007-08 year being the school's exploratory year, and a full Division I schedule beginning by the start of the 2009-10 year at the latest. Making the move without the security of a conference affiliation adds significant obstacles. But university officials are confident they've made the right decision. "This decision represents that intercollegiate athletics be on par with the rest of university in size, location, academic quality, student life and mission," Seattle U president, the Rev. Stephen Sundborg, said Friday. "Athletics should be on par and equal to and the same in student life and reputation as the rest of the university, and we have not been there." Seattle U's decision comes despite its preferred new home in Division I - the West Coast Conference - telling the school two months ago it does not intend to expand. It seemed a debilitating blow to Seattle U, which never hid its affection for returning to the conference it belonged to in the 1970s. Men's basketball coach Joe Callero called it a "mixed bag of emotions," when the WCC made its announcement. The Redhawks were in the midst of a conference championship and trip to the NCAA Division II tournament when the school received word. But Sundborg said the school refocused and determined that competing as an independent was possible. "We would like to aim toward being member of conference of like schools, but for an interim period of time after the exploratory year, we'll be independent," Sundborg said. Seattle U, a member of the WCC from 1971 until 1980, was once a Division I power in men's basketball, with a heritage that listed a number of NBA players, including Hall of Famer Elgin Baylor. Financial strain and athletic struggles led the school to drop out of Division I after the 1980 school year. The university now competes at the Division II level in the Great Northwest Athletic Conference, and will do so for the 2007-08 school year. Seattle U meets NCAA Division I minimums with the 14 sports it offers, but intends to add baseball, and men's and women's tennis and golf when the move is made, athletic director Bill Hogan said. WCC president Michael Gilleran, a Seattle U alum, said Friday that the conference has not closed off the idea of expansion, but it won't happen in the immediate future. "Right now our presidents are happy with who we are. We're just going to stay the course," Gilleran said. "I never say never. It would be silly. We'll revisit at some point in time." Seattle U is beginning a $47.5 million renovation to its campus athletic and recreation center. Initially, plans are to play men's basketball games at Seattle's KeyArena. "Our situation is unique as far as location and size," Hogan said. "We think we can be a special competition as an independent for a lot of schools." One reason for the renewed interest is the basketball success of Gonzaga University in Spokane, the other Jesuit-run college in Washington state and a member of the WCC. Gonzaga has made nine straight trips to the NCAA tournament. All the national exposure has dramatically raised applications and enrollment, and the school was able to build a new 6,000-seat arena that is perpetually sold out. But Seattle U's move isn't without dissension. A survey of university faculty found that more than half were against making the jump, concerned about the effect on academic programs and standards. "It's been an interesting year for the variety of opinions to come forward," Sundborg said. "There is a lot we need to work out in the course of it." &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our
http://hosted.ap.org/	News from The Associated Press
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/W/WA_FORT_LEWIS_DEAD_WAOL-?SITE=WVEC&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	May 11, 7:07 PM EDT Fort Lewis prepares to honor six fallen soldiers FORT LEWIS, Wash. (AP) -- Maj. Bob Bennett struggles with what he will say next week at the memorial for six Fort Lewis soldiers killed in Iraq. He's delivered remarks at such ceremonies since the 3rd Brigade, 2nd Infantry division lost its first soldier in August. But it never gets easier. "I don't know what I'm going to say," said Bennett, the brigade's rear detachment commander in charge of arranging memorial services of fallen soldiers. This time it's for six killed Sunday in a Stryker bombing in Baqubah. The roadside bomb exploded beneath the vehicle, killing Staff Sgt. Vincenzo Romeo, 23; Sgt. Jason Harkins, 25; Sgt. Joel Lewis, 28; Cpl. Matthew Alexander, 21; Cpl. Anthony Bradshaw, 21; and Cpl. Michael Pursel, 19. Also killed was Russian photojournalist, Dmitry Chebotayev, 29. The attack took the most since the Mosul dining hall bombing in December 2004, and was the first to claim so many from a single unit. "It's akin to an entire family being wiped out on I-5, it's that tight. And it affects that entire company in Iraq," Bennett said. Tuesday's memorial at Fort Lewis will be held at the gym at Soldiers Field House to accommodate a large turnout. The driver of the Stryker was the sole survivor, and suffered wounds to one of his hands, Bennett said. He was evacuated to Landstuhl Regional Medical Center in Germany and will likely be flown home to a stateside hospital over the next week. News that a soldier has been killed usually arrives in the early morning. The caller gives a name, a Social Security number and preliminary details, so beginning a process that will involve many of the roughly 250 soldiers under Bennett's charge. "Everything stops," Bennett said Thursday. "It becomes the total focus of what we're doing, and it ought to be the total focus of what we're doing." In Iraq, the brigade's commander, Col. Steve Townsend, immediately went from Baghdad to Baqouba to help soldiers deal with their loss. They also had to prepare to return to the difficult combat they've seen since arriving in the insurgent stronghold of Baqouba in mid-March. At Fort Lewis, six soldiers work closely with each fallen service member's family. Another six escort home the remains of their comrades, which will arrive at Dover Air Force Base in Delaware. The fallen soldier's ribbons and decorations must be properly displayed on their dress green uniforms before being delivered to the family and then the burial place, Bennett said. An honor guard greets each soldier's arrival at his hometown. To help guide the process, the unit refers to an inch-thick "What If" book of forms that soldiers fill out before deployment. Information from: The News Tribune, &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/B/BLUE_ANGELS_CRASH_WAOL-?SITE=WVEC&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	May 11, 3:41 PM EDT Blue Angels regroup for N.C. show, first since fatal crash SEYMOUR JOHNSON AIR FORCE BASE, N.C. (AP) -- After 21 years as a U.S. Navy pilot, his career boasting nearly 900 aircraft carrier landings and air combat during the first Gulf War, tragedy comes as no surprise to Cmdr. Kevin Mannix. That includes last month's fatal crash of a fellow Blue Angels pilot during a show in South Carolina. But for Blue Angels pilots, whose demeanor is a key part of the job, the tragedy offers another opportunity to perform the mission they were first given six decades ago: promote the U.S. Navy and U.S. Marines Corps to the world. "Our ability to bounce back and do our mission is the same as every other squadron in the U.S. Navy or U.S. Marine Corps," said Mannix, minutes after practicing Thursday at Seymour Johnson Air Force Base in Goldsboro, where the team on Saturday will perform its first show since the crash April 21. "The only difference is there's a lot more visibility on us because we are in the public eye. That's our job and that's what we do. I think a lot more media was focused our way on this specific mishap." Lt. Cmdr. Kevin Davis, 32, died when his No. 6 jet went down during the final minutes of a performance at the Marine Corps Air Station Beaufort in Beaufort, S.C. The Pittsfield, Mass., native was in his first year flying in formation with the team. An investigation into the cause of the crash, the Blue Angels' first since 1999 and the 26th fatality in the team's 60-year history, could take several months, according to the Navy. The Blue Angels typically fly their F/A-18A Hornets six days a week, but they stayed on the ground for nine days after the crash, canceling performances May 5 and May 6 at Offutt Air Force Base in Nebraska. Saturday's show will feature only five jets. Lt. Cmdr. Craig Olson, 37, of Kirkland, Wash., replaced Davis a couple of weeks ago. Olson, who flew with the Blue Angels from 2003-2005, will practice with the team for a few more weeks before flying in a show, Mannix said. Mannix said there was a lot of anxiety among the pilots before they flew for the first time after the crash. "We lost a brother, a great friend, a great American, actually," Lt. Cmdr. John Allison, who flies the No. 5 jet, told reporters Thursday after practice. "But we're trying to move forward and think about flying, you know, think about our jobs." During Thursday's practice, the team flew in its traditional delta formation, the triangle lineup they were in when Davis crashed. Olson practiced as one of two solo members, hitting mach speeds and performing head-on near misses with Allison. Each year, the Navy considers up to about 70 pilots for the squadron. The final six pilots train constantly between January and March at El Centro Naval Air Facility, Calif., and are stationed at Pensacola Naval Air Station in Florida. The team is scheduled to fly 66 air shows this year at 35 locations across the country, including Seattle. The Blue Angels fly without the traditional G-suits, which most jet pilots wear to avoid blacking out during maneuvers that exert strong gravitational forces. The suits inflate and deflate air bladders around the lower body to keep blood in the brain and heart. The air bladders can cause a pilot to bump the control stick, so the Blue Angels learn to manage the G-forces by tensing their abdominal muscles. After a fatal crash, one of the best responses is to get back into the cockpit, team members said, and grace the skies with twirls, climbs, dives and near misses at around 350 mph and only inches apart. "It feels good for the team to go back and do it," Mannix said Thursday, "including myself all the way down to the maintainers to do what we do for the American public, to get out there and show them we are resilient in what we do." Wings Over Wayne Air Show: &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/W/WA_PORTS_RADIATION_TESTING_WAOL-?SITE=WVEC&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	May 11, 1:11 PM EDT Tacoma port selected for radiation testing program TACOMA, Wash. (AP) -- New technology that could lead to better checks for nuclear materials being smuggled through the country's ports will be tested at the Port of Tacoma. The Department of Homeland Security plans to screen cargo on trains before they leave the port. More than 70 percent of the port's import containers move from shipping terminals to mainline railways, with some containers being checked manually. The railways then take the cargo to major markets in the Midwest and the East Coast. By comparison, between 60 percent and 70 percent of the Seattle port's cargo leaves by rail, but much of it is loaded onto a truck first. The goal of the program officially announced Friday is to improve security at ports without slowing the movement of cargo, said Mike Milne, spokesman for the department's U.S. Customs and Border Protection agency. "Out goal is to screen 100 percent of all cargo that comes in, whether it leaves by train or truck," Milne said. Ports in Seattle and Tacoma, like others around the country, already test outgoing trucks carrying containers using radiation monitors. Trains don't pass through those checkpoints, though. On trains, containers are also stacked densely, making it more difficult to unpack the train when a radiation signal is detected, Milne said. "The challenge will be to devise radiation screening that will work in the various loading and unloading processes," he said. Information from: The Seattle Times, &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/W/WA_WASHINGTON_MARRIAGE_WAOL-?SITE=WVEC&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	May 11, 8:50 AM EDT Marriage and divorce rates at two-decade low in Washington state SEATTLE (AP) -- Marriage and divorce rates are at a two-decade low in Washington state, and experts are divided on the reason. The state recorded fewer divorces in 2004 than in 1986 despite a 1.7 million population increase, and that's in line with a national trend. The nation's divorce rate, which shot upward following the widespread adoption of state no-fault divorce laws starting in the 1960s to a peak of 5.3 divorces per 1,000 people in 1981, has since fallen to 3.6. In Washington the decline from 1986 to 2004 was from 5.9 to 4.2. "If you have fewer marriages, you are going to have fewer divorces.," said Pepper Schwartz, a University of Washington sociologist. More couples now live together without getting married, and "you can't get divorced unless you are married," Schwartz said. Others note that many couples wait longer to get married, so they have more time to mature and get to know each other. The result, some say, is more durable marriages. Other marriage experts cite a "divorce divide," saying divorce rates are falling substantively among college-educated couples but not among less affluent and less educated couples. "Families with two earners with good jobs have seen an improvement in their standard of living, which leads to less tension at home and lower probability of divorce," said Andrew Cherlin, a professor of public policy at Johns Hopkins University. "People are getting married later now than they ever have, and cohabitation is on the rise," said Les Parrott, co-founder of the Center for Relationship Development at Seattle Pacific University. "So many (young couples) are feeling unprepared for it. They've seen plenty of examples of how marriage doesn't work, so they put it off." With a long engagement, "the couple gets along better," said Heather Edy, owner of Wedding Bell Bliss Bridal Consultation in Seattle. "I truly believe they're more compatible for marriage." Edy, 28, is a fair example. In August she plans to marry Clint Sharpe, 30, whom she has dated for four years and to whom she got engaged on Valentine's Day last year. Nikelle Rosier, a marriage educator and couples therapist in Seattle, said her clients are displaying "more intentionality" in marriage decisions. "What's interesting is that a lot of clients met through Match.com," she said. "They're picking a mate more out of compatibility than just coming across someone and falling in love." Shifting gender roles and expectations also are involved, said Stephanie Coontz, who teaches history and family studies at The Evergreen State College in Olympia. Marriages in the 1950s and '60s were typically based on "pre-assigned" roles of the husband as provider and the wife as mother, she said. "In the last 20 years, people are marrying now as peers with more options outside marriage," Coontz said. "It's more necessary than it used to be to have a very deep friendship and to have good negotiating skills." The "big irony," she said, is that "the very fact that people have options outside marriage in many ways makes them think more carefully about commitment before they do get married." And then there's the aging of baby boomers. "As you're getting older, the less likelier you are of getting divorced," Schwartz said. "You're less likely to run off in your 60s than in your 40s." Information from: Seattle Post-Intelligencer, &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our
http://apdigitalnews.com/privacy.html	AP Digital | Terms of Use
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/I/ID_CALDER_SHOOTINGS_WAOL-?SITE=WVEC&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	May 11, 8:10 AM EDT Three dead in apparent homicide-suicide in north Idaho CALDER, Idaho (AP) -- An elderly couple and a younger man were found dead and a woman survived a head wound after being shot at a remote house outside this north Idaho hamlet, Shoshone County sheriff's deputies said. Deputies gave few details early Friday, but neighbors said a distraught man had wounded his estranged wife, killed her parents and committed suicide Thursday evening in a small wooden house a few hundred yards from the nearest dwellings. Sheriff's Sgt. Derek Dofelmire told The Associated Press the survivor was Rose Turner and one of the dead was Ricky Turner. He would not identify the elderly man and woman. Rose Turner was "very lucky" to be alive and was flown to Sacred Heart Medical Center in Spokane, Wash., where "she has been able to provide information to our investigators," Dofelmire said. More than one gun was recovered at the scene, he added. Shoshone and Benewah deputies closed a road off U.S. Forest Service Road 50, the St. Joe River Road, in the Idaho Panhandle about two miles east of Calder and 65 miles east-southeast of Spokane. Neighbors told The Spokesman-Review of Spokane and KXLY and KREM Television that Ricky Turner is Rose Turner's estranged husband and committed suicide after shooting her and her parents. The Turners had three children, Ricky Turner was disabled, Rose Turner worked at a nursing home and her parents lived with her at the house, one neighbor, Julie "Tiny" Codoni, told the newspaper. She said Ricky Turner was despondent over their divorce, which was scheduled to take effect Thursday. When she talked to him Wednesday, "he was in really bad shape. He was hurting," Codoni said. "He loved her. She was his life." &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/W/WA_AMERICAN_IDOL_BLAKE_LEWIS_WAOL-?SITE=WVEC&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	May 11, 6:24 PM EDT Sir Mix-A-Lot helps celebrate 'Idol' finalist Blake Lewis SEATTLE (AP) -- Baby got back, and Seattle got Blake. "American Idol" finalist Blake Lewis returned to Seattle on Friday, playing a free concert before more than a thousand fans at Westlake Park, where he was joined onstage by Seattle's own Sir Mix-A-Lot. Mix-A-Lot sang his hit "Baby Got Back" over what many in the crowd came to see: Blake's beat-boxing. "Every time you watch 'American Idol,' you see people that can sing, and that's it," Mix-A-Lot said to wild applause. "This cat got real talent. ... He's the new king of Sea-town, baby." Lewis, 25, is one of three remaining contestants on Fox's wildly popular singing contest, and his homecoming plans included a parade in his suburban hometown of Bothell and the national anthem at the Mariners-Yankees game Friday night. He looked out on the crowd in the warm midday sunshine and said: "I'm speechless. Thank you guys for all the support." But Lewis directed most of his onstage banter at urging his fans to support local music, giving repeated shout-outs to rising Seattle hip-hop stars Blue Scholars and Common Market. "A lot's changed since I saw you last," Common Market's RA Scion said to him before unleashing a torrent of lyrics over Lewis' beat-boxing. Many in the crowd, populated largely by truant teenage girls, screamed and waved signs that read "Blaker Girls" or "We (heart) Blake." Blaire Ginnever, a 14-year-old eighth-grader, said she was skipping her lunch period and Spanish class at Villa Academy in Seattle. "Blake es muy bueno," she said. Her favorite part? "The beat-boxing - it's just, like, unique and nobody else can do it on the show." Ginnever's mom, Marilyn, was also in the crowd, and said she didn't mind that her daughter was missing school. "It's the end of the year, and this is big for Seattle," she said. "We follow the show. It's kind of a family event, and rooting for a hometown boy makes it special." City Councilwoman Jean Godden, who is old enough to remember a significant chunk of Seattle's musical history, read a proclamation declaring Friday "Blake Lewis Day" and placing the "reknowned beat-box musician" in a local tradition that includes Jimi Hendrix, Quincy Jones, Ann and Nancy Wilson, Nirvana, Modest Mouse and Death Cab for Cutie. Lauren Barberena, 26, said she had never watched "American Idol," but she bounced with the music and held her cell phone high in the air as Lewis, backed by local trio Ari Sawkadoria, sang Keane's "Somewhere Only We Know." "My friend's 11-year-old daughter asked me to call her," she said. "If it's good music, it's good music." &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/W/WA_SOLDIERS_KILLED_WAOL-?SITE=WVEC&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	May 11, 6:54 PM EDT Fort Lewis soldier from Idaho killed in Iraq FORT LEWIS, Wash. (AP) -- A soldier from Idaho is the latest Fort Lewis service member to die in Iraq, the Department of Defense said Friday. The department also identified a second Idaho soldier killed in an attack earlier this week. Sgt. Maj. Bradly D. Conner, 41, of Coeur d'Alene, Idaho, died Wednesday near Al-Hillah, about 60 miles south of Baghdad. He was killed when a homemade bomb detonated near his vehicle, the department said in a news release Friday afternoon. Conner was assigned to the 2nd Battalion, 1st Special Forces Group at Fort Lewis. A Fort Lewis spokeswoman on Friday directed inquiries on Conner to U.S. Army Special Operations Command at Fort Bragg, N.C. Public affairs officials there did not immediately return a message by The Associated Press. Conner is the 106th soldier from the post south of Tacoma to die in Iraq. On Sunday, six members of the 3rd Brigade, 2nd Infantry Division were killed along with a Russian freelance photojournalist when a bomb exploded beneath their Stryker vehicle in Baqubah, northwest of Baghdad. Sgt. Blake C. Stephens, 25, of Pocatello, Idaho, was also identified by the Defense Department on Friday as one of two soldiers who died Tuesday in Salman Pak, about 18 miles south of Baghdad, when a roadside bomb exploded near their vehicle. Stephens and Spc. Kyle A. Little, 20, of West Boylston, Mass., were assigned to Headquarters and Headquarters Company, 3rd Brigade Combat Team, 3rd Infantry Division at Fort Benning, Ga. Conner and Stephens are the 26th and 27th Idaho soldiers killed in Iraq since the war began in March 2003. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/P/PACCAR_COLUMBUS_WAOL-?SITE=WVEC&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	May 11, 7:09 PM EDT PACCAR to build multimillion plant in Mississippi JACKSON, Miss. (AP) -- PACCAR Inc. plans to build a $400 million engine manufacturing plant in Columbus. PACCAR, a publicly traded Fortune 200 company, was the name floating around when lawmakers met in special session last month to pass an incentive package aimed at bringing jobs to north Mississippi, but no one was willing to publicly confirm the speculation. Gov. Haley Barbour held a news conference Friday in Columbus to make it official. PACCAR, of Bellevue, Wash., is the maker of Peterbilt and Kenworth trucks. Production at the new plant could start by 2010 and officials say it will employ hundreds of people with an estimated payroll of $18 million. "The creation of 500 new jobs and the public and private investment in Lowndes County will contribute significantly to continued economic growth here in Northeast Mississippi," Barbour said in a news release. "I am pleased with the decision of this major international company to locate here, which is further testament to the tremendously skilled work force and can-do attitude at every level in this region." Construction on the 400,000-square-foot plant is scheduled to begin this year. The facility will produce 12.9-liter and 9.2-liter diesel engines for Kenworth, Peterbilt and DAF, a news release on PACCAR's Web site said. "PACCAR is pleased to locate its engine facility in one of the most dynamic and progressive areas in the Southeast," Mark Pigott, chairman and chief executive officer, said in the new release. The Columbus site "provides superb proximity to our dealers, customers and strategic supplier partners." Barbour signed into law three incentive bills related to the project that lawmakers approved during a special session April 27. The incentive package totals $48.4 million for the Lowndes County project. The incentives package is for funding onsite improvements on roads, site preparation and the extension of water and wastewater services, as well as offsite items like infrastructure and work-force training. The bills allow Lowndes County to issue $15 million in bonds and use eminent domain to obtain property for the plant. "We appreciate the outstanding support from the State of Mississippi and Lowndes County in partnering with PACCAR to bring this significant economic investment to the area," Richard Bangert, PACCAR's vice president, said in a news release. "We look forward to developing a close relationship with Mississippi State University and regional community colleges by investing in their advanced engineering programs, as well as providing ongoing educational opportunities for our employees." &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/B/BORDER_PASSPORTS_WAOL-?SITE=WVEC&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT	May 11, 3:53 PM EDT Homeland Security: Border passport rule begins in January WASHINGTON (AP) -- The new rule that anyone driving across the Canadian border must have a passport or passcard will "absolutely" begin in January, government officials said Friday, refuting a New York senator's claim the plan will be delayed. Lawmakers from states along the northern border have been trying for months to stall or alter the plan to require the more secure identification documents, contending the rule will hurt trade and tourism. The Western Hemisphere Travel Initiative was created by Congress to tighten security on both the Canadian and Mexican borders, but many members are now fuming at the notion their constituents will need a $97 dollar passport or a not-yet-developed passcard, expected to cost around $50. Children would be exempt. Democratic Sen. Charles Schumer predicted Thursday the government won't be able to start in January, but Department of Homeland Security officials insist they will. "We have a firm deadline and we're absolutely committed to moving forward with the implementation of western hemisphere travel requirements at our northern border," said DHS spokesman Russ Knocke. The agency does not have a date for people to start applying for the new passcards, which are being created by the State Department, but Knocke said that would not affect the January launch. Lawmakers have repeatedly passed legislation trying to delay the land-crossing requirements. On Wednesday, the House passed a measure designed to push back the starting date until 2009 or beyond. But the administration is going ahead and Knocke rapped Schumer for fighting the security measure, launched after a recommendation from the 9/11 commission to make it harder for potential terrorists to use bogus documents to enter the United States. "You can either be for security or against security," Knocke said, adding that some states have already begun discussions about creating new driver's licenses that would be so secure they could be used instead of passports. Knocke said the agency has talked with state officials in Washington, Michigan, and Vermont about a driver's license program - though he added that should not be taken as a signal DHS is going to loosen its border requirements. On Thursday, Schumer said DHS "drives me crazy" because of what he called their incompetence, particularly over the border passports issue. The New York senator said the agency formed after the Sept. 11 terror attacks should be broken up because it is too large to function well. The DHS spokesman called those comments an affront to the agency's 208,000 employees. "It is discouraging for them to hear senior officials or members of Congress constantly armchair quarterback what they do and suggest that the solution to our challenges is yet another reorganization," said Knocke. "The deck chairs have been reorganized enough." Rather than criticize the agency, Schumer and other lawmakers should be encouraging people in their states to get passports, he said. Schumer responded Friday that "the problem with the current DHS management is the with us or against us mentality. They should understand that careful planning and smart management can help us achieve both security and commerce." Americans also will be required to carry a passport when they enter the U.S. from Mexico. Currently, they can generally cross with a drivers license and, in the case of children, a birth certificate. Mexican citizens are required to have a biometric, machine-readable visa, known as a laser visa, that allows them to be in the country up to 90 days. &copy; 2007 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Learn more about our
