http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/arts/music/11rock.html?ex=1336536000&en=f3bcd6549aa389ce&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	New York Night Life - Brooklyn - Alternative Music - Parties - New York Times Off the Beaten Beat Michael Falco for The New York Times Dan Deacon mans the keyboard at a loft party in Ridgewood, Queens, one of many sites that have emerged to replace the flashier Manhattan nightclub scene. Brooklyn in particular has become a major music nexus. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 ON Monday night inside the GlassLands Gallery, a converted warehouse in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, 100 or so people, alerted by MySpace pages and music blogs, gathered for a concert by the Yeah Yeah Yeahs. For an hour, the singer Karen O yelped and shrieked and pranced around a makeshift stage in a paint-splattered gold bodysuit, often wading into the audience a few feet away. At the end of the night the band took requests; to close the set, as her band mates played on, Ms. O paraded most of the crowd toward an alley behind the building, a musical moment as intimate as a reigning rock star can have. Skip to next paragraph Rock Off the Radar The Demimonde Doesn’t Vanish, It Just Changes Location “We hardly play small venues anymore, but this one is definitely special and personal,” Ms. O said afterward. “My favorite kind of party to be at or show to see is a house show. This is as close as you get.” Amid the teeter-totter energy that currently defines New York’s music scene — where the lamented demise of one club is offset by the splashier opening of another — many artists can be found outside that playground entirely, performing at off-the-beaten-path locales like warehouses, rooftops, apartments or inside a Brooklyn oil silo. Music fans with limited funds and a taste for adventure look forward to the summer concert season, which is about to turn the city’s parks and other public spaces into musical free-for-alls. But there are already many places to see bands for little money, without sellout crowds, ticket surcharges or security pat-downs. (Yes, Virginia, there’s even cheap beer.) And the lineups are diverse. Experimental music did not die with the closing of Tonic, nor did grungy rock with the fall of CBGB. With a little planning and an active MetroCard you might catch the next Arcade Fire performing in a parking lot. “Anything is a venue,” said the promoter Todd Patrick, known professionally as Todd P. For six years he has made it his mission to program music in far-flung places, from divey bars in Greenpoint to Lutheran churches to private lofts. Now New York’s alt-location guru, he has recently expanded to work with bands on the verge of stardom (Animal Collective, which he booked in 2005) and even nationally known acts (Oneida, Trans Am) at large clubs like Studio B in Brooklyn, winning the attention of the music industry. But Mr. Patrick’s hallmark remains the cheap, on-the-fly, do-it-yourself concert, promoted through his Web site ( ), his e-mail list (13,000 strong) and MySpace, blog and newspaper and magazine listings. Essentially a one-man band, Mr. Patrick, 31, has interns who work the door (ticket prices rarely go above $10) and stamp hands (he only does all-ages shows) while he helps set up. “Because the idea is about D.I.Y., I like to show the strings,” he said. “I want people to come to the show and see me build the P.A. system, see that there’s nothing glossy about what we’re doing. I think alternative venues are a great way of doing that. It just kind of throws it off. If a club is the quote-unquote appropriate place to see music, why do people have so much more fun in a warehouse?” Last weekend was typical: On Saturday night he booked shows at two unexpected spaces, an Ecuadorian restaurant across from a low-income housing project in Bushwick, Brooklyn, and a loft apartment in Ridgewood, Queens. Both drew several hundred people to outer-borough neighborhoods not typically known as destinations. The restaurant, Don Pedro, had a full menu of ceviche, $3 bottles of Negra Modelo and a small stage in a brick-walled back room where Cass McCombs, a singer with a Lou Reed croon, performed to a packed house. William Alberque, 36, a Defense Department analyst visiting from Washington and a longtime fan of Mr. McCombs’s, said he preferred seeing him anywhere but a rock club. “The D.I.Y. spirit is wonderful,” he said. “It’s just you and the band, five feet away. You buy into what’s happening so much more. It gives you musical butterflies.” At the loft there was even less distance (and more butterflies). The headliner, Dan Deacon, a sensitive electro-party rocker from Baltimore, performed on a patch of carpet in the middle of the room. No stage or bouncer separated him from his audience, which swarmed around, fists pumping, creating a heaving, dancing, steaming mosh pit. Even the walls vibrated. Next Article in Arts (1 of 13) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Chosen by David Bowie, Shows That He&#8217;d Attend Kitty Carlisle Hart, a New York Blend of Actress, Singer and Arts Advocate, Dies at 96 Classical Music Looks Toward China With Hope For 'Blue-Collar' Musicians, A 'Factory' All Their Own Next Article in Arts (1 of 13) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/arts/design/11mott.html?ex=1336536000&en=f0341512041cb00e&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	The Glittering A-List of Black History - New York Times Art Review | 'Let Your Motto Be Resistance' The Glittering A-List of Black History Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 “Let Your Motto Be Resistance: African American Portraits” at the International Center of Photography is a praise song in pictures, a shoutout to history. It’s also a fancy-dress inaugural party for the yet-to-be-built National Museum of African American History and Culture in Washington. As such, it is a little too fancy, too heavy on glitz, too short on grit. Still, what a party it is. Skip to next paragraph Benedict J. Fernandez/National Portrait Gallery The coffin of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. surrounded by mourners, including his children, in the show &#147;Let Your Motto Be Resistance.&#148; Estate of Linda McCartney/National Portrait Gallery Jimi Hendrix in 1967, one of the glamorous shots in the exhibition. The guest list includes an abbreviated Who’s Who of charismatic black statesmen, from Frederick Douglass to Malcolm X. In terms of entertainment, the event is beyond compare. and Bill (Bojangles) Robinson dance. Sarah Vaughan, Leontyne Price and Odetta share a stage, with Sidney Bechet on sax, and Hazel Scott, looking divine, at the keyboard. You’d look divine too if you had James VanDerZee behind the camera, or Berenice Abbott or Edward Weston or Addison N. Scurlock or any of the other great photographers responsible for the 100 vintage-print portraits here, all from the archives of the Smithsonian’s National Portrait Gallery. There are more artists and writers than usual at such an affair. You’ll recognize Horace Pippin, Edmonia Lewis and a beaming Lorraine Hansberry, by name if not by face. And a few people you may be meeting for the first time. Ernest Everett Just (1883-1941), a pioneering biologist who spent much of his career in Europe after he was stonewalled by the American scientific establishment. And Henry Highland Garnet (1815-1882), a Maryland slave who escaped north, became an abolitionist firebrand and delivered the phrase that gives the show its title: “Strike for your lives and liberties. Rather die freemen than live to be slaves. Let your motto be resistance! Resistance! Resistance!” As you look around the gallery, you can imagine some of the portraits reacting to his call. Elizabeth Catlett (in a wonderful likeness by Mariana Yampolsky), A. Philip Randolph, , Sojourner Truth and a young, blanket-swaddled James Baldwin seem to hear it and they’re on the alert. Mr. Garnet’s words aren’t party words. They are stark, preaching, move-now words. Which brings us back to the kind of party this is. It is, as I said, a housewarming in advance, and a buzz-builder, for a national African-American museum. When that museum goes up on the National Mall — 2015 is the target date — an essential aspect of American history will have its official monument. America and African America are one and the same. They’re inseparable. If this show can be taken as a preview of exhibitions to come, what will that history look like? Obviously, it will have glamour to burn, to judge by the lush, burnished portraits chosen by the guest curator, Deborah Willis, a professor of photography at Roland Hayes, who sang like an angel, looks like an angel in a 1934 light-and-shadow likeness attributed to Johan Hagemeyer. floats like a butterfly for Philippe Halsman’s Vogue-savvy eye. One after another, people glow or glower. Everyone is a star, an inspiration, a certified member of W. E. B. DuBois’s Talented Tenth. This Hall of Fame approach to cultural history delivers thrills, no question. But it also has a too easy, been-there air. The show feels like a throwback to another era, to a kind of exhibition that might have been mounted 20 years ago at the Studio Museum in Harlem , an institution that was until recently deeply invested in black pride, devoted to ethnic uplift. That devotion was effective in its time. Among many other things, it encouraged the upward mobility of what has since become an economically and politically powerful black middle class. But is uplift on the same terms, for the same ends, the right framework for viewing African-American, or any other American, history in 2007? Is Bright and Beautiful the model to follow? The show doesn’t entirely adhere to the model. Wall texts make clear that almost every person portrayed had to fight bitter odds for a seat in front of the camera. Each likeness was, consciously or by default, an effort to cast the African-American image, distorted by racism, in acceptably positive, mainstream terms. Three images, set by side by side at the start of the show, make life-and-death stakes clear. In a 1956 picture the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. — just a year after he had successfully used passive resistance as a tactical tool in Montgomery, Ala. — stands in the sunshine beside his smiling wife, Coretta, holding their infant daughter, Yolanda Denise, in his arms. In 1968 the same daughter, now in her teens, looks down at her murdered father in his coffin as her 5-year-old sister, Bernice, reacts with open-mouthed shock to the sight. A year later Stephen Shames catches the 25-year-old Angela Davis standing at a microphone, her mouth open to deliver a speech. Passive resistance is over; active resistance has begun. Significantly, some of the best things in the show are action shots: the Supremes — Diana, Mary and Flo — in a recording session; Stokely Carmichael and a white-suited Adam Clayton Powell Jr. cracking up at a joke; impassively hawking broadsides on the street; Marian Anderson singing as a skinny young These portraits are close to snapshots; their subjects look like regular people, Americans who happen to be black, in the middle of their accomplished lives. African America has, of course, a distinctive history, of profound pain and amazing grace. But the figures in these on-the-fly images are also part of a larger fabric: We the People. They are us; we are them. And with all our shared flaws and heroisms, we make up one mercurial, complicated, crazy quilt of a crew. Many of the young artists seen at the Studio Museum these days are intensely interested in complications, in giving “black” and “white” hard critical scrutiny, in consigning racial pride, along with all other essentialisms, to the shelf. Such artists resist the old, easy-chair version of history that this crowd-pleaser of a show comes too close to emulating. I hope the National Museum of African American History and Culture will resist it too, when it finally gets the home it should have had years ago at the heart of the nation. “Let Your Motto Be Resistance: African American Portraits” continues through Sept. 9 at the International Center of Photography, 1133 Avenue of the Americas, at 43rd Street; (212) 857-0000, icp.org. It opens at the National Portrait Gallery in Washington on Oct. 9. Next Article in Arts (5 of 13) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Gay Art: A Movement, or at Least a Moment A Young Man With an Eye, and Friends Up a Tree Unfamiliar Perspectives on Familiar Images International Center of Photography Next Article in Arts (5 of 13) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/arts/design/11kirs.html	Lincoln Kirstein - Whitney Museum of American Art - New York Times Art Review | 'Lincoln Kirstein' Kirstein’s Lust for Art and Artists Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 Tucked away on the top floor of the Whitney Museum of American Art is another centenary tribute, in a season of them, to the man who brought to the United States. Lincoln Kirstein (1907-1996) is best remembered for founding with Balanchine the New York City Ballet and American School of Ballet. But as a friend of his put it, he had “more arms than Shiva.” Skip to next paragraph A show of artists Kirstein championed is at the Whitney and includes a portait of himself by Pavel Tchelitchew. 'The Worlds of Lincoln Kirstein,' by Martin Duberman: A Paragon of the Arts, as Both Man and Titan 'The Worlds of Lincoln Kirstein,' by Martin Duberman: The Outsider Insider Dance: Recalling Kirstein, Endearing Monster Metropolitan Museum of Art A portrait of Lincoln Kirstein as a college student, by Walker Evans. This charming exhibition is about a few of the visual artists he championed. The son of a prominent Boston merchant prince, Kirstein became involved with art during his undergraduate days at when he edited Hound and Horn and helped run the Society for Contemporary Art. Over the years he organized shows, collected art, wrote books and criticism for The New Republic, and gave struggling artists saving doses of money. During the middle decades of the last century Kirstein particularly relished attacking the Museum of Modern Art, with which he had collaborated early on but then came to oppose. Pure abstraction was ridiculous, he thought. It had no standards. Against Mondrian and Pollock, Kirstein endorsed, among others, the artists in the show here. They are the sculptors Elie Nadelman and Gaston Lachaise and the painters Paul Cadmus, who was Kirstein’s brother-in-law, and Pavel Tchelitchew, the flamboyant, socially connected Russian expatriate and set designer who became Kirstein’s good friend. The show also includes Walker Evans. Kirstein, long before most others, recognized photography as an art and Evans as a genius. With the exception of Evans, Kirstein’s taste clearly hasn’t won the day, but victory is not everything in matters of artistic rank. Impassioned contrarians like Kirstein have enriched the debate over American art since the 19th century, battling complacency and more than occasionally calling the bluff of avant-gardists who don’t have very good explanations for what they’re doing. It’s a pity that this show doesn’t venture further. At the Society for Contemporary Art Kirstein exhibited Calder and Noguchi. He pioneered writing about and film. At the Modern in the early 1930s he put together a show of mural paintings by Ben Shahn, Stuart Davis, Hugo Gellert and others, which provoked a ruckus with the museum board because much of the art was left-wing. It flopped with critics but deserves a fresh look, if only to recall Kirstein’s polemical zeal and fleeting Bolshevism. A decade later he roamed South America hunting for Latin American art for the Modern. It would be fascinating to unearth what he brought back. Lucian Freud started but never finished Kirstein’s portrait because they got into a fistfight. It should be seen alongside the portraits by Evans, Lachaise and Tchelitchew that the Whitney includes. That wasn’t all. Kirstein wrote about an obscure 19th-century British-American painter named William Rimmer. He married a painter, Fidelma Cadmus. And he enthused over Andrew Wyeth, Jamie Wyeth, George Tooker, Jared French, Henry Koerner and many others whom he truly believed would be remembered after , Beckmann and Dalí were relegated to storage. It hasn’t happened yet. “As for personal favorites, we all have them,” Kirstein once wrote to Lloyd Goodrich, who ran the Whitney during the 1940s. “My attitude is merely against the idea of improvisation, decoration, fragmentation and stylization.” Goodrich wrote back, “By too sweeping condemnation you can do great harm to artists and to the public’s relation to all living art.” They were both exaggerating. Kirstein couldn’t hold back in private. It wasn’t his nature. To his brother-in-law, a gentle soul, he wrote after seeing Cadmus’s painting called “Lust,” of a monstrous woman wrapped in a giant condom: “I do not understand your aching agony about the flesh. I suppose it partly comes from hating being queer” and from the “curdled Catholicism of your nasty youth. I think it is a romantic and immature attitude.” Kirstein, whose own sexuality was fluid, went on: “I don’t think anything as impermanent as flesh is corrupt. Lust isn’t so bad, it lasts no time at all and is not destructive.” How refreshing. Kirstein may be excused for resorting to a language of equivocation and innuendo in public. Explaining, in a book on Cadmus, the splay-legged sailors and naked men sharing a bathroom, he wrote, “As for sexual factors, he has without ostentation or polemic long celebrated somatic health in boys and young men for its symbolic range of human possibility.” Whatever. It was a different era. He liked Cadmus because representational art demanded measurable skill; it depended (here was the link to ballet) on established modes for exhibiting the human body. Out of it came the whole “symbolic range of human possibility.” So Cadmus leaned on Renaissance models. Lachaise looked at Egyptian statues when he sculptured Kirstein’s portrait as a naked man striding. (It’s in the show.) Tchelitchew’s dexterous but rather mysterious style, which is sometimes called visionary but is basically surreal, harked back to Leonardo. And Nadelman contrived urban-folk sculpture that celebrated traditional handicraft. “Lincoln Kirstein” continues through Aug. 27 at the Whitney Museum of American Art, 945 Madison Avenue, at 75th Street; (212) 570-3676, whitney.org. Next Article in Arts (3 of 13) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. BOOKS OF THE TIMES; A Paragon of the Arts, as Both Man and Titan Saint-Gaudens Group To Honor Kirstein Whitney Museum of American Art Next Article in Arts (3 of 13) &#x00bb; A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/arts/music/11rock.html	New York Night Life - Brooklyn - Alternative Music - Parties - New York Times Off the Beaten Beat Michael Falco for The New York Times Dan Deacon mans the keyboard at a loft party in Ridgewood, Queens, one of many sites that have emerged to replace the flashier Manhattan nightclub scene. Brooklyn in particular has become a major music nexus. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 ON Monday night inside the GlassLands Gallery, a converted warehouse in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, 100 or so people, alerted by MySpace pages and music blogs, gathered for a concert by the Yeah Yeah Yeahs. For an hour, the singer Karen O yelped and shrieked and pranced around a makeshift stage in a paint-splattered gold bodysuit, often wading into the audience a few feet away. At the end of the night the band took requests; to close the set, as her band mates played on, Ms. O paraded most of the crowd toward an alley behind the building, a musical moment as intimate as a reigning rock star can have. Skip to next paragraph Rock Off the Radar The Demimonde Doesn’t Vanish, It Just Changes Location “We hardly play small venues anymore, but this one is definitely special and personal,” Ms. O said afterward. “My favorite kind of party to be at or show to see is a house show. This is as close as you get.” Amid the teeter-totter energy that currently defines New York’s music scene — where the lamented demise of one club is offset by the splashier opening of another — many artists can be found outside that playground entirely, performing at off-the-beaten-path locales like warehouses, rooftops, apartments or inside a Brooklyn oil silo. Music fans with limited funds and a taste for adventure look forward to the summer concert season, which is about to turn the city’s parks and other public spaces into musical free-for-alls. But there are already many places to see bands for little money, without sellout crowds, ticket surcharges or security pat-downs. (Yes, Virginia, there’s even cheap beer.) And the lineups are diverse. Experimental music did not die with the closing of Tonic, nor did grungy rock with the fall of CBGB. With a little planning and an active MetroCard you might catch the next Arcade Fire performing in a parking lot. “Anything is a venue,” said the promoter Todd Patrick, known professionally as Todd P. For six years he has made it his mission to program music in far-flung places, from divey bars in Greenpoint to Lutheran churches to private lofts. Now New York’s alt-location guru, he has recently expanded to work with bands on the verge of stardom (Animal Collective, which he booked in 2005) and even nationally known acts (Oneida, Trans Am) at large clubs like Studio B in Brooklyn, winning the attention of the music industry. But Mr. Patrick’s hallmark remains the cheap, on-the-fly, do-it-yourself concert, promoted through his Web site ( ), his e-mail list (13,000 strong) and MySpace, blog and newspaper and magazine listings. Essentially a one-man band, Mr. Patrick, 31, has interns who work the door (ticket prices rarely go above $10) and stamp hands (he only does all-ages shows) while he helps set up. “Because the idea is about D.I.Y., I like to show the strings,” he said. “I want people to come to the show and see me build the P.A. system, see that there’s nothing glossy about what we’re doing. I think alternative venues are a great way of doing that. It just kind of throws it off. If a club is the quote-unquote appropriate place to see music, why do people have so much more fun in a warehouse?” Last weekend was typical: On Saturday night he booked shows at two unexpected spaces, an Ecuadorian restaurant across from a low-income housing project in Bushwick, Brooklyn, and a loft apartment in Ridgewood, Queens. Both drew several hundred people to outer-borough neighborhoods not typically known as destinations. The restaurant, Don Pedro, had a full menu of ceviche, $3 bottles of Negra Modelo and a small stage in a brick-walled back room where Cass McCombs, a singer with a Lou Reed croon, performed to a packed house. William Alberque, 36, a Defense Department analyst visiting from Washington and a longtime fan of Mr. McCombs’s, said he preferred seeing him anywhere but a rock club. “The D.I.Y. spirit is wonderful,” he said. “It’s just you and the band, five feet away. You buy into what’s happening so much more. It gives you musical butterflies.” At the loft there was even less distance (and more butterflies). The headliner, Dan Deacon, a sensitive electro-party rocker from Baltimore, performed on a patch of carpet in the middle of the room. No stage or bouncer separated him from his audience, which swarmed around, fists pumping, creating a heaving, dancing, steaming mosh pit. Even the walls vibrated. Next Article in Arts (1 of 13) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Chosen by David Bowie, Shows That He&#8217;d Attend Kitty Carlisle Hart, a New York Blend of Actress, Singer and Arts Advocate, Dies at 96 Classical Music Looks Toward China With Hope For 'Blue-Collar' Musicians, A 'Factory' All Their Own Next Article in Arts (1 of 13) &#x00bb; A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://movies2.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/movies/11late.html	28 Weeks Later - Movies - Review - New York Times MOVIE REVIEW | '28 WEEKS LATER' MORE ON '28 Weeks Later' The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Emily Beecham in &#34;28 Weeks Later,&#34; directed by Juan Carlos Fresnadillo. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 Nothing satisfies the appetite for allegory quite like a movie about flesh-eating zombies. Somehow the genre, at least as practiced by its masters, has the capacity to illuminate some brute facts about the human condition and its contemporary dysfunctions. There are not many recent movies that match, for example, the social criticism undertaken by George Romero in his “Living Dead” cycle. Skip to next paragraph Anatomy of a Scene: '28 Weeks Later' Movie Minutes: '28 Weeks Later' A group of Londoners run through a tunnel as London is being firebombed in &#34;28 Weeks Later.&#34; and its new sequel, directed by Juan Carlos Fresnadillo, may not quite be in Mr. Romero’s league, but at their best they come close to his signature blend of grisly horror, emotional impact and biting satire. There is, of course, plenty of literal biting as well, since the virus-crazed creatures known as infecteds crave the flesh and blood of their erstwhile fellow citizens. And also their metaphorical flesh and blood. The first movie, set in the early days of a pandemic that nearly wiped out the population of Britain, followed a small band of strangers who came together to form a makeshift tribe. This time, after the first wave of the virus seems to have run its course, the focus is on families and comrades split apart and set against one another by paranoia, moral confusion and the endless conflict between the survival instinct and the call of duty. If “28 Days Later” was, in part, about the emergence of solidarity in the midst of crisis, “28 Weeks Later” is about the breakdown that occurs in what seems to be the aftermath. The DVD of Mr. Boyle’s film has two alternate endings, one slightly more comforting than the other. The hopeful conclusion (the one originally released in American theaters) turns out to be a slender thread leading to Mr. Fresnadillo’s more hectic and somewhat grimmer sequel. The story (written by Rowan Joffe, Mr. Fresnadillo, E. L. Lavigne and Jesus Olmo, with Mr. Boyle and his frequent collaborator, Alex Garland, on hand as executive producers) begins with a terrible failure of nerve. Fleeing a zombie attack, Don (a gaunt, appropriately anxious ) abandons his wife, Alice ( ), to a gruesome and apparently inevitable fate. A few months later, he is safe in the Green Zone, an island of security in London overseen by occupying American troops led by General Stone (Idris Elba). There, he is reunited with his children, Andy (Mackintosh Muggleton) and Tammy (Imogen Poots), who had been on a school trip to Spain during the initial outbreak. He lies to them about their mother’s fate, and his dishonesty is punished in due course. That bit about American soldiers patrolling the Green Zone — see what I mean about allegory? — may make “28 Weeks Later” sound heavy-handedly topical. But as in any good science fiction fable, the analogies it offers to contemporary reality are speculative rather than obvious. The initial benevolence of the occupation is clear enough: a shattered country needs to be put back together, its remaining population protected and reassured. It is only when things spin out of control that the inherent brutality of the situation becomes clear, but here again the movie poses intractable conundrums rather than scoring easy points. To the soldiers and the survivors alike, there are only bad choices, and doing what seems like the right thing — firebombing an open city or rescuing children from the bombs — can turn out to have horrendous consequences. Mr. Fresnadillo’s first movie, the Spanish-language thriller showed him to be a filmmaker with technical agility and a decidedly philosophical bent. Here the thinking is done on the run, as the collapse of order unfolds through scenes of panic and chaos. These are often too frenetically edited and murkily lighted to be truly scary, and the higher dose of gore — infecteds chopped up by helicopter blades; bodies exploding in blood as bullets fly into them — is not enough to increase the horror. The real terror comes at quieter moments, when aerial shots survey the echoing emptiness of London, or when Tammy and Andy sneak out of the Green Zone into the surrounding desolation. “London’s mine,” Andy exclaims, and the claustrophobic suspense of the film is occasionally leavened by a sense of adventure. The threat of death brings out noble impulses as well as selfish ones. Don’s cowardice stands in contrast to the selflessness of some of the American soldiers: Scarlet (Rose Byrne), a medical officer; Doyle (Jeremy Renner), a sniper whose conscience gets the better of him; and, more reluctantly, Flynn (Harold Perrineau), a chopper pilot with pictures of his kids taped above the windshield. “28 Weeks Later” is not for the faint of heart or the weak of stomach. It is brutal and almost exhaustingly terrifying, as any respectable zombie movie should be. It is also bracingly smart, both in its ideas and in its techniques. The last shot brought a burst of laughter at the screening I attended, a reaction that seemed to me both an acknowledgment of Mr. Fresnadillo’s wit and a defense against his merciless rigor. Anyway, I was glad the person next to me was laughing, rather than chewing through my neck. That level of horror will have to wait for the next sequel. “28 Weeks Later” is rated R (Under 17 requires accompanying parent or adult guardian). Rabid zombies feast on living flesh, which causes their potential victims to utter an occasional obscenity. Directed by Juan Carlos Fresnadillo; written by Rowan Joffe, Mr. Fresnadillo, E. L. Lavigne and Jesus Olmo; director of photography, Enrique Chediak; edited by Chris Gill; music by John Murphy; production designer, Mark Tildesley; produced by Enrique López-Lavigne, Andrew Macdonald and Allon Reich; released by Fox Atomic. Running time: 91 minutes. (Don), Rose Byrne (Scarlet), Jeremy Renner (Doyle), Harold Perrineau (Flynn), (Alice), Mackintosh Muggleton (Andy), Imogen Poots (Tammy), Idris Elba (General Stone) and Emily Beecham (Karen). Next Article in Movies (1 of 66) &#x00bb; Report a Problem Post (4.6 stars, 10 votes) Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. MOVIE SHOWTIMES AND TICKETS The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » Kickin' It Old Skool Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/arts/design/11kirs.html?ex=1336536000&en=ec29ca20bd72f036&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Lincoln Kirstein - Whitney Museum of American Art - New York Times Art Review | 'Lincoln Kirstein' Kirstein’s Lust for Art and Artists Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 Tucked away on the top floor of the Whitney Museum of American Art is another centenary tribute, in a season of them, to the man who brought to the United States. Lincoln Kirstein (1907-1996) is best remembered for founding with Balanchine the New York City Ballet and American School of Ballet. But as a friend of his put it, he had “more arms than Shiva.” Skip to next paragraph A show of artists Kirstein championed is at the Whitney and includes a portait of himself by Pavel Tchelitchew. 'The Worlds of Lincoln Kirstein,' by Martin Duberman: A Paragon of the Arts, as Both Man and Titan 'The Worlds of Lincoln Kirstein,' by Martin Duberman: The Outsider Insider Dance: Recalling Kirstein, Endearing Monster Metropolitan Museum of Art A portrait of Lincoln Kirstein as a college student, by Walker Evans. This charming exhibition is about a few of the visual artists he championed. The son of a prominent Boston merchant prince, Kirstein became involved with art during his undergraduate days at when he edited Hound and Horn and helped run the Society for Contemporary Art. Over the years he organized shows, collected art, wrote books and criticism for The New Republic, and gave struggling artists saving doses of money. During the middle decades of the last century Kirstein particularly relished attacking the Museum of Modern Art, with which he had collaborated early on but then came to oppose. Pure abstraction was ridiculous, he thought. It had no standards. Against Mondrian and Pollock, Kirstein endorsed, among others, the artists in the show here. They are the sculptors Elie Nadelman and Gaston Lachaise and the painters Paul Cadmus, who was Kirstein’s brother-in-law, and Pavel Tchelitchew, the flamboyant, socially connected Russian expatriate and set designer who became Kirstein’s good friend. The show also includes Walker Evans. Kirstein, long before most others, recognized photography as an art and Evans as a genius. With the exception of Evans, Kirstein’s taste clearly hasn’t won the day, but victory is not everything in matters of artistic rank. Impassioned contrarians like Kirstein have enriched the debate over American art since the 19th century, battling complacency and more than occasionally calling the bluff of avant-gardists who don’t have very good explanations for what they’re doing. It’s a pity that this show doesn’t venture further. At the Society for Contemporary Art Kirstein exhibited Calder and Noguchi. He pioneered writing about and film. At the Modern in the early 1930s he put together a show of mural paintings by Ben Shahn, Stuart Davis, Hugo Gellert and others, which provoked a ruckus with the museum board because much of the art was left-wing. It flopped with critics but deserves a fresh look, if only to recall Kirstein’s polemical zeal and fleeting Bolshevism. A decade later he roamed South America hunting for Latin American art for the Modern. It would be fascinating to unearth what he brought back. Lucian Freud started but never finished Kirstein’s portrait because they got into a fistfight. It should be seen alongside the portraits by Evans, Lachaise and Tchelitchew that the Whitney includes. That wasn’t all. Kirstein wrote about an obscure 19th-century British-American painter named William Rimmer. He married a painter, Fidelma Cadmus. And he enthused over Andrew Wyeth, Jamie Wyeth, George Tooker, Jared French, Henry Koerner and many others whom he truly believed would be remembered after , Beckmann and Dalí were relegated to storage. It hasn’t happened yet. “As for personal favorites, we all have them,” Kirstein once wrote to Lloyd Goodrich, who ran the Whitney during the 1940s. “My attitude is merely against the idea of improvisation, decoration, fragmentation and stylization.” Goodrich wrote back, “By too sweeping condemnation you can do great harm to artists and to the public’s relation to all living art.” They were both exaggerating. Kirstein couldn’t hold back in private. It wasn’t his nature. To his brother-in-law, a gentle soul, he wrote after seeing Cadmus’s painting called “Lust,” of a monstrous woman wrapped in a giant condom: “I do not understand your aching agony about the flesh. I suppose it partly comes from hating being queer” and from the “curdled Catholicism of your nasty youth. I think it is a romantic and immature attitude.” Kirstein, whose own sexuality was fluid, went on: “I don’t think anything as impermanent as flesh is corrupt. Lust isn’t so bad, it lasts no time at all and is not destructive.” How refreshing. Kirstein may be excused for resorting to a language of equivocation and innuendo in public. Explaining, in a book on Cadmus, the splay-legged sailors and naked men sharing a bathroom, he wrote, “As for sexual factors, he has without ostentation or polemic long celebrated somatic health in boys and young men for its symbolic range of human possibility.” Whatever. It was a different era. He liked Cadmus because representational art demanded measurable skill; it depended (here was the link to ballet) on established modes for exhibiting the human body. Out of it came the whole “symbolic range of human possibility.” So Cadmus leaned on Renaissance models. Lachaise looked at Egyptian statues when he sculptured Kirstein’s portrait as a naked man striding. (It’s in the show.) Tchelitchew’s dexterous but rather mysterious style, which is sometimes called visionary but is basically surreal, harked back to Leonardo. And Nadelman contrived urban-folk sculpture that celebrated traditional handicraft. “Lincoln Kirstein” continues through Aug. 27 at the Whitney Museum of American Art, 945 Madison Avenue, at 75th Street; (212) 570-3676, whitney.org. Next Article in Arts (3 of 13) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. BOOKS OF THE TIMES; A Paragon of the Arts, as Both Man and Titan Saint-Gaudens Group To Honor Kirstein Whitney Museum of American Art Next Article in Arts (3 of 13) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/arts/design/11poir.html?ex=1336536000&en=0c9d801cf8a47cf4&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Poiret: King of Fashion - Art - Review - New York Times Art Review | 'Poiret: King of Fashion' What to Wear to a Revolution Anna Marie Kellen/Galliera, Musee de la Mode de la Ville de Paris Paul Poiret&#146;s 1905 R&#233;v&#233;rend Coat, embellished with Chinese roundels. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 “Poiret: King of Fashion,” the Metropolitan Museum of Art ’s sumptuous survey of the designs of the French couturier Paul Poiret (1879-1944), will transform your understanding of the origin of modern fashion. Its radiant hand-painted silk backdrops may also increase your appreciation of the art of set design; they magically create an immersive beauty out of almost nothing. Skip to next paragraph Man Ray Trust/Artists Rights Society (ARS)/ADAGP A 1923 Man Ray photograph of Peggy Guggenheim wearing a dress by Poiret. Poiret’s achievement is not as visible today as that of Coco Chanel, who built on some of his ideas and discarded others. His fashion house closed in 1929, and he spent his remaining years impoverished. But Poiret was for a while a revolutionary in revolutionary times and also a canny impresario. His radically streamlined, unstructured, often stridently colored clothes freed women from corsets while evoking exotic, non-Western cultures and a fierce disregard for social convention. He introduced these corset-free garments in 1906, the year before committed his decidedly uninhibited (and unstaid) “Demoiselles d’Avignon” to canvas. But with his love of the exotic, his brilliant use of color and pattern, and his penchant for simplified, almost rudimentary form, Poiret most resembles Poiret functioned as a kind of one-man cultural scene. He collected art, gave lavish costume parties and made astute use of the press while laying the groundwork for fashion design as a modern art and a modern business. His clients included , Nancy Cunard, Isadora Duncan, Colette and Helena Rubinstein. Man Ray photographed Peggy Guggenheim in a Poiret gown and turban. Edward Steichen’s first fashion photographs were taken of models in Poiret’s atelier. He was the first designer to understand the value of designing for well-known actresses both onstage and off. He was also the first to create his own line of perfume, named Rosine, for his eldest daughter, and the first to open an interior design store, Atelier Martine, named for his second daughter but inspired by the Weiner Werkstätte. His innovations included the chemise, harem pants and pantaloons and the popular lampshade skirt. When he visited the United States in 1913, he found himself called the king of fashion and discovered the underside of modern fashion success: His lampshade skirt was being copied far and wide. Organized by Harold Koda and Andrew Bolton, who are curator in charge and curator of the Met’s , “Poiret: King of Fashion” conveys quite a bit of his complex genius and his contradictory relationship with modernity. It displays 50 garments on mannequins (by Beyond Design) whose ovoid faces and cryptic features evoke Brancusi and Modigliani. The silk backdrops, which are the work of Jean-Hugues de Chatillon, a French set designer who served as the exhibition’s creative consultant, accent the show’s spaciousness with indelibly Parisian vistas of leafy parks, chic theaters and luxurious drawing rooms. All told you may have the sensation of drifting through a series of extraordinarily beautiful fashion illustrations, an art that Poiret cultivated to his advantage. Poiret’s liberation of the female body was in part inspired by the gamine build and independent spirit of his wife and muse, Denise, whom he married in 1905. In other ways it was born of necessity. Although he was initiated into the couturier business between 1898 and 1903, working as a designer for Jacques Doucet and then the House of Worth, Poiret never trained in the exacting crafts of couture tailoring or dressmaking. His design ideas began with the flat, rectangle of the fabric itself, as did the Japanese kimonos and North African caftans he admired. They then evolved through draping, not tailoring, into garments with a minimum of seams that pretty much hung from the shoulders. Poiret drew from a broad range of sources. Early in the show there is a trio of nightgowns, based on the Classical Greek gown known as the chiton, that are precursors to the 1950s negligee and the early 21st-century socialite party dress. To one side of these are two white high-waisted dresses that hark back to the severe yet demure gowns of post-Revolution France, displayed with an Atelier Martine chair that has bubbly hand-painted fabric. Nearby is evidence of Poiret’s attraction to a more ornate form of non-Western dress: a gauzy harem outfit studded with enormous beads of turquoise celluloid that Denise might have worn to their most famous fete, “The Thousand and Second Night” costume party on June 24, 1911. But turn around and you will see a stark simplicity that may take you aback: a gown that resembles nothing so much as a 1960s abstract painting. Wrapped gracefully around a mannequin, it has no sleeves or collar to speak of, just four broad, alternating bands of stylishly darkened red and blue. “Poiret: King of Fashion” is at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, Fifth Avenue at 82nd Street, (212) 535-7710, through Aug. 5. Next Article in Arts (4 of 13) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. The Face; Shock of the Few CRITIC'S NOTEBOOK; The Reckoning: Ralph Rucci At F.I.T. The Low Life And High Life, Hand in Hand Metropolitan Museum of Art Next Article in Arts (4 of 13) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://movies2.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/movies/11late.html?ex=1336536000&en=08b42f416e1ef2fc&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	28 Weeks Later - Movies - Review - New York Times MOVIE REVIEW | '28 WEEKS LATER' MORE ON '28 Weeks Later' The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Emily Beecham in &#34;28 Weeks Later,&#34; directed by Juan Carlos Fresnadillo. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 Nothing satisfies the appetite for allegory quite like a movie about flesh-eating zombies. Somehow the genre, at least as practiced by its masters, has the capacity to illuminate some brute facts about the human condition and its contemporary dysfunctions. There are not many recent movies that match, for example, the social criticism undertaken by George Romero in his “Living Dead” cycle. Skip to next paragraph Anatomy of a Scene: '28 Weeks Later' Movie Minutes: '28 Weeks Later' A group of Londoners run through a tunnel as London is being firebombed in &#34;28 Weeks Later.&#34; and its new sequel, directed by Juan Carlos Fresnadillo, may not quite be in Mr. Romero’s league, but at their best they come close to his signature blend of grisly horror, emotional impact and biting satire. There is, of course, plenty of literal biting as well, since the virus-crazed creatures known as infecteds crave the flesh and blood of their erstwhile fellow citizens. And also their metaphorical flesh and blood. The first movie, set in the early days of a pandemic that nearly wiped out the population of Britain, followed a small band of strangers who came together to form a makeshift tribe. This time, after the first wave of the virus seems to have run its course, the focus is on families and comrades split apart and set against one another by paranoia, moral confusion and the endless conflict between the survival instinct and the call of duty. If “28 Days Later” was, in part, about the emergence of solidarity in the midst of crisis, “28 Weeks Later” is about the breakdown that occurs in what seems to be the aftermath. The DVD of Mr. Boyle’s film has two alternate endings, one slightly more comforting than the other. The hopeful conclusion (the one originally released in American theaters) turns out to be a slender thread leading to Mr. Fresnadillo’s more hectic and somewhat grimmer sequel. The story (written by Rowan Joffe, Mr. Fresnadillo, E. L. Lavigne and Jesus Olmo, with Mr. Boyle and his frequent collaborator, Alex Garland, on hand as executive producers) begins with a terrible failure of nerve. Fleeing a zombie attack, Don (a gaunt, appropriately anxious ) abandons his wife, Alice ( ), to a gruesome and apparently inevitable fate. A few months later, he is safe in the Green Zone, an island of security in London overseen by occupying American troops led by General Stone (Idris Elba). There, he is reunited with his children, Andy (Mackintosh Muggleton) and Tammy (Imogen Poots), who had been on a school trip to Spain during the initial outbreak. He lies to them about their mother’s fate, and his dishonesty is punished in due course. That bit about American soldiers patrolling the Green Zone — see what I mean about allegory? — may make “28 Weeks Later” sound heavy-handedly topical. But as in any good science fiction fable, the analogies it offers to contemporary reality are speculative rather than obvious. The initial benevolence of the occupation is clear enough: a shattered country needs to be put back together, its remaining population protected and reassured. It is only when things spin out of control that the inherent brutality of the situation becomes clear, but here again the movie poses intractable conundrums rather than scoring easy points. To the soldiers and the survivors alike, there are only bad choices, and doing what seems like the right thing — firebombing an open city or rescuing children from the bombs — can turn out to have horrendous consequences. Mr. Fresnadillo’s first movie, the Spanish-language thriller showed him to be a filmmaker with technical agility and a decidedly philosophical bent. Here the thinking is done on the run, as the collapse of order unfolds through scenes of panic and chaos. These are often too frenetically edited and murkily lighted to be truly scary, and the higher dose of gore — infecteds chopped up by helicopter blades; bodies exploding in blood as bullets fly into them — is not enough to increase the horror. The real terror comes at quieter moments, when aerial shots survey the echoing emptiness of London, or when Tammy and Andy sneak out of the Green Zone into the surrounding desolation. “London’s mine,” Andy exclaims, and the claustrophobic suspense of the film is occasionally leavened by a sense of adventure. The threat of death brings out noble impulses as well as selfish ones. Don’s cowardice stands in contrast to the selflessness of some of the American soldiers: Scarlet (Rose Byrne), a medical officer; Doyle (Jeremy Renner), a sniper whose conscience gets the better of him; and, more reluctantly, Flynn (Harold Perrineau), a chopper pilot with pictures of his kids taped above the windshield. “28 Weeks Later” is not for the faint of heart or the weak of stomach. It is brutal and almost exhaustingly terrifying, as any respectable zombie movie should be. It is also bracingly smart, both in its ideas and in its techniques. The last shot brought a burst of laughter at the screening I attended, a reaction that seemed to me both an acknowledgment of Mr. Fresnadillo’s wit and a defense against his merciless rigor. Anyway, I was glad the person next to me was laughing, rather than chewing through my neck. That level of horror will have to wait for the next sequel. “28 Weeks Later” is rated R (Under 17 requires accompanying parent or adult guardian). Rabid zombies feast on living flesh, which causes their potential victims to utter an occasional obscenity. Directed by Juan Carlos Fresnadillo; written by Rowan Joffe, Mr. Fresnadillo, E. L. Lavigne and Jesus Olmo; director of photography, Enrique Chediak; edited by Chris Gill; music by John Murphy; production designer, Mark Tildesley; produced by Enrique López-Lavigne, Andrew Macdonald and Allon Reich; released by Fox Atomic. Running time: 91 minutes. (Don), Rose Byrne (Scarlet), Jeremy Renner (Doyle), Harold Perrineau (Flynn), (Alice), Mackintosh Muggleton (Andy), Imogen Poots (Tammy), Idris Elba (General Stone) and Emily Beecham (Karen). Next Article in Movies (1 of 66) &#x00bb; Report a Problem Post (4.6 stars, 10 votes) Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. MOVIE SHOWTIMES AND TICKETS The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » Kickin' It Old Skool Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/arts/design/11mott.html	The Glittering A-List of Black History - New York Times Art Review | 'Let Your Motto Be Resistance' The Glittering A-List of Black History Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 “Let Your Motto Be Resistance: African American Portraits” at the International Center of Photography is a praise song in pictures, a shoutout to history. It’s also a fancy-dress inaugural party for the yet-to-be-built National Museum of African American History and Culture in Washington. As such, it is a little too fancy, too heavy on glitz, too short on grit. Still, what a party it is. Skip to next paragraph Benedict J. Fernandez/National Portrait Gallery The coffin of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. surrounded by mourners, including his children, in the show &#147;Let Your Motto Be Resistance.&#148; Estate of Linda McCartney/National Portrait Gallery Jimi Hendrix in 1967, one of the glamorous shots in the exhibition. The guest list includes an abbreviated Who’s Who of charismatic black statesmen, from Frederick Douglass to Malcolm X. In terms of entertainment, the event is beyond compare. and Bill (Bojangles) Robinson dance. Sarah Vaughan, Leontyne Price and Odetta share a stage, with Sidney Bechet on sax, and Hazel Scott, looking divine, at the keyboard. You’d look divine too if you had James VanDerZee behind the camera, or Berenice Abbott or Edward Weston or Addison N. Scurlock or any of the other great photographers responsible for the 100 vintage-print portraits here, all from the archives of the Smithsonian’s National Portrait Gallery. There are more artists and writers than usual at such an affair. You’ll recognize Horace Pippin, Edmonia Lewis and a beaming Lorraine Hansberry, by name if not by face. And a few people you may be meeting for the first time. Ernest Everett Just (1883-1941), a pioneering biologist who spent much of his career in Europe after he was stonewalled by the American scientific establishment. And Henry Highland Garnet (1815-1882), a Maryland slave who escaped north, became an abolitionist firebrand and delivered the phrase that gives the show its title: “Strike for your lives and liberties. Rather die freemen than live to be slaves. Let your motto be resistance! Resistance! Resistance!” As you look around the gallery, you can imagine some of the portraits reacting to his call. Elizabeth Catlett (in a wonderful likeness by Mariana Yampolsky), A. Philip Randolph, , Sojourner Truth and a young, blanket-swaddled James Baldwin seem to hear it and they’re on the alert. Mr. Garnet’s words aren’t party words. They are stark, preaching, move-now words. Which brings us back to the kind of party this is. It is, as I said, a housewarming in advance, and a buzz-builder, for a national African-American museum. When that museum goes up on the National Mall — 2015 is the target date — an essential aspect of American history will have its official monument. America and African America are one and the same. They’re inseparable. If this show can be taken as a preview of exhibitions to come, what will that history look like? Obviously, it will have glamour to burn, to judge by the lush, burnished portraits chosen by the guest curator, Deborah Willis, a professor of photography at Roland Hayes, who sang like an angel, looks like an angel in a 1934 light-and-shadow likeness attributed to Johan Hagemeyer. floats like a butterfly for Philippe Halsman’s Vogue-savvy eye. One after another, people glow or glower. Everyone is a star, an inspiration, a certified member of W. E. B. DuBois’s Talented Tenth. This Hall of Fame approach to cultural history delivers thrills, no question. But it also has a too easy, been-there air. The show feels like a throwback to another era, to a kind of exhibition that might have been mounted 20 years ago at the Studio Museum in Harlem , an institution that was until recently deeply invested in black pride, devoted to ethnic uplift. That devotion was effective in its time. Among many other things, it encouraged the upward mobility of what has since become an economically and politically powerful black middle class. But is uplift on the same terms, for the same ends, the right framework for viewing African-American, or any other American, history in 2007? Is Bright and Beautiful the model to follow? The show doesn’t entirely adhere to the model. Wall texts make clear that almost every person portrayed had to fight bitter odds for a seat in front of the camera. Each likeness was, consciously or by default, an effort to cast the African-American image, distorted by racism, in acceptably positive, mainstream terms. Three images, set by side by side at the start of the show, make life-and-death stakes clear. In a 1956 picture the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. — just a year after he had successfully used passive resistance as a tactical tool in Montgomery, Ala. — stands in the sunshine beside his smiling wife, Coretta, holding their infant daughter, Yolanda Denise, in his arms. In 1968 the same daughter, now in her teens, looks down at her murdered father in his coffin as her 5-year-old sister, Bernice, reacts with open-mouthed shock to the sight. A year later Stephen Shames catches the 25-year-old Angela Davis standing at a microphone, her mouth open to deliver a speech. Passive resistance is over; active resistance has begun. Significantly, some of the best things in the show are action shots: the Supremes — Diana, Mary and Flo — in a recording session; Stokely Carmichael and a white-suited Adam Clayton Powell Jr. cracking up at a joke; impassively hawking broadsides on the street; Marian Anderson singing as a skinny young These portraits are close to snapshots; their subjects look like regular people, Americans who happen to be black, in the middle of their accomplished lives. African America has, of course, a distinctive history, of profound pain and amazing grace. But the figures in these on-the-fly images are also part of a larger fabric: We the People. They are us; we are them. And with all our shared flaws and heroisms, we make up one mercurial, complicated, crazy quilt of a crew. Many of the young artists seen at the Studio Museum these days are intensely interested in complications, in giving “black” and “white” hard critical scrutiny, in consigning racial pride, along with all other essentialisms, to the shelf. Such artists resist the old, easy-chair version of history that this crowd-pleaser of a show comes too close to emulating. I hope the National Museum of African American History and Culture will resist it too, when it finally gets the home it should have had years ago at the heart of the nation. “Let Your Motto Be Resistance: African American Portraits” continues through Sept. 9 at the International Center of Photography, 1133 Avenue of the Americas, at 43rd Street; (212) 857-0000, icp.org. It opens at the National Portrait Gallery in Washington on Oct. 9. Next Article in Arts (5 of 13) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Gay Art: A Movement, or at Least a Moment A Young Man With an Eye, and Friends Up a Tree Unfamiliar Perspectives on Familiar Images International Center of Photography Next Article in Arts (5 of 13) &#x00bb; A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/pages/arts/index.html	Arts - New York Times Off the Beaten Beat Michael Falco for The New York Times Dan Deacon mans the keyboard at a loft party in Ridgewood, Queens, one of many sites that have emerged to replace the flashier Manhattan nightclub scene. Brooklyn in particular has become a major music nexus. Away from the bright lights of New York’s music scene, many artists are finding new performance spaces in strange, intimate locales. Harlem’s Cultural Anchor in a Sea of Ideas By FELICIA R. LEE As the Schomburg Center unveils its $11 million facelift, Harlem itself is also undergoing one of its periodic renaissances. Audio Slide Show: Fact vs. Fiction Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later' The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies By A. O. SCOTT “28 Weeks Later” is brutal and almost exhaustingly terrifying. It is also bracingly smart, both in its ideas and in its techniques. Art Review | 'Lincoln Kirstein' Kirstein’s Lust for Art and Artists This charming exhibition is about a few of the visual artists championed by Mr. Kirstein, who founded with Balanchine the New York City Ballet and American School of Ballet. Art Review | 'Poiret: King of Fashion' What to Wear to a Revolution The Metropolitan Museum of Art’s sumptuous survey of the designs of the French couturier Paul Poiret will transform your understanding of the origin of modern fashion. Nature, Nature, Burning Bright (High-Def Cameras Frame Thy Fearful Symmetry) Even the most selective library would be ruinously incomplete without the boxed set of “Planet Earth,” cable’s most highly rated natural history program of all time. A Loving Look at a Cinematic Tough Guy: Gangster, Hit Man, Gunslinger A retrospective of Lee Marvin’s work at the Film Society of Lincoln Center showcases an actor of diverse skills, but it’s his bad characters that remain the most memorable. Theater Review | 'Memory' From Wales, Tales of Berlin Then and Bethlehem Now If this flawed but compelling drama, part of the Brits Off Broadway festival, adds up to less than the sum of its parts, it is still engrossing throughout. Music Review | Arcade Fire From Little Clubs to Big Halls, an Indie Band Evolves The concert was the third of three sold-out New York City dates, and it proved that bigness suits this band. Compiled by LAWRENCE VAN GELDER Ken Burns agrees to add Hispanic veterans’ stories to his PBS film on World War II, Kim Cattrall and Daniel Radcliffe will star in a new film and more culture news. No Rain or Love, Till a Guy Promises Both Disillusioned Diva With Glimmers of Soul Melly Still on ‘Coram Boy’ You Go to a Fight, and a Boston Pops Concert Breaks Out Puffing Away That PG Rating 'Animal, Vegetable, Miracle,' by Barbara Kingsolver: Because It’s Good for You, That’s Why Art Review | International Fine Art Fair: Intimate Nooks Filled With Unexpected Treasures Dance Review | Urban Bush Women: Channeling Group Dynamics Fueled by the Power of Funk Music Review | Lisa Gerrard: The Somber Sound of Nondenominational Mysticism Music Review | Anat Cohen Quartet: A Musical World Traveler Who Likes to Mix Things Up Theater Review | 'Couples': Blissful and Benighted: Dispatches From the War of the Sexes Spare Times: For Children Movie Review | 'Casting About': The Cold Male Gaze Movie Review | 'Duck': A Sense of Purpose Takes Flight Movie Review | 'The Hip Hop Project': Beats With a Meaning Movie Review | 'The Salon': Cutting Hair and Cutting Remarks Movie Review | 'ShowBusiness': The Broad Scope of Broadway Movie Review | 'Provoked': Revisiting the True Story of a Battered Wife’s Revenge Movie Review | 'The Ex': Chasing an Old Flame, Taking No Prisoners Movie Review | 'Disappearances': Realism, Both Magic and Downright Mean Movie Review | 'Georgia Rule': Hey, California Girl, Don’t Mess With Grandma Inside Art: Guggenheim Foundation Takes Steps to Preserve Its Artistic Legacy The Glittering A-List of Black History 'Troublesome Young Men,' by Lynne Olson: In Churchill’s Rise to Power, a Rough Path of Rebellion 'The Joy of Drinking,' by Barbara Holland: Against Moderation Feeling the Burn, and the Triumph, After Some Gritty Labors Stomp, Sneeze, Grunt, Gasp and All That Body Language A Loving Look at a Cinematic Tough Guy: Gangster, Hit Man, Gunslinger From Little Clubs to Big Halls, an Indie Band Evolves Verizon Drops Pop Singer From Ads Nature, Nature, Burning Bright (High-Def Cameras Frame Thy Fearful Symmetry) From Wales, Tales of Berlin Then and Bethlehem Now from the past 7 days enter keyword or date e.g. April 21, 2001 Art Review | 'Let Your Motto Be Resistance' The Glittering A-List of Black History This exhibit is a little too fancy, too heavy on glitz, too short on grit. Still, what a party it is. By THE NEW YORK TIMES Reviews of exhibits by Myron Stout and Lisi Raskin, and of the show “Sugar Buzz.” Who uses YouTube? People like paul99503. Go to Blog » The Times's pop music critics discuss the latest albums and music events of the week. Download an MP3 Version Find your comprehensive television listings with this Longer editions of selected event listings in the New York area this week are now available online. The Week in Arts Where Are All the Black Swans? Speaking Love With Kurt and Lotte May 6 - May 12 FIND IT IN NYC MOST POPULAR - ARTS Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Music: Off the Beaten Beat Harlem&#8217;s Cultural Anchor in a Sea of Ideas Video Games: Finding Fellowship (Hairy Feet Optional) Film: A Loving Look at a Cinematic Tough Guy: Gangster, Hit Man, Gunslinger Movie Review | 'Georgia Rule': Hey, California Girl, Don&#8217;t Mess With Grandma Books of the Times: Because It&#8217;s Good for You, That&#8217;s Why Nature, Nature, Burning Bright (High-Def Cameras Frame Thy Fearful Symmetry) Art Review | 'Poiret: King of Fashion': What to Wear to a Revolution Lesley Blanch, 102, a Writer, Traveler and Adventure-Seeker, Dies Go to Complete List » Hush, Mama, Don't You Cry, A New Yellow Wiggle Will Sing Go to Complete List » Moore Blasts Bush Over Film - Trip Probe Cuba: Michael Moore Victim of Censorship Spielberg Joins Hollywood Chorus on Darfur Flea Ready for Summer, Teaching Kids Music Execs Silent As Rap Debate Rages Calif. Judge Hails Mel Gibson's Progress A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Pinus Insignis, at Osborne Post a job online today! Buy, sell or rent a home. Looking to buy a new car? Browse movie reviews from 1913. Get the latest business news Get closer to film, music, art and plays. $3.15 a week. The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/arts/design/11poir.html	Poiret: King of Fashion - Art - Review - New York Times Art Review | 'Poiret: King of Fashion' What to Wear to a Revolution Anna Marie Kellen/Galliera, Musee de la Mode de la Ville de Paris Paul Poiret&#146;s 1905 R&#233;v&#233;rend Coat, embellished with Chinese roundels. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 “Poiret: King of Fashion,” the Metropolitan Museum of Art ’s sumptuous survey of the designs of the French couturier Paul Poiret (1879-1944), will transform your understanding of the origin of modern fashion. Its radiant hand-painted silk backdrops may also increase your appreciation of the art of set design; they magically create an immersive beauty out of almost nothing. Skip to next paragraph Man Ray Trust/Artists Rights Society (ARS)/ADAGP A 1923 Man Ray photograph of Peggy Guggenheim wearing a dress by Poiret. Poiret’s achievement is not as visible today as that of Coco Chanel, who built on some of his ideas and discarded others. His fashion house closed in 1929, and he spent his remaining years impoverished. But Poiret was for a while a revolutionary in revolutionary times and also a canny impresario. His radically streamlined, unstructured, often stridently colored clothes freed women from corsets while evoking exotic, non-Western cultures and a fierce disregard for social convention. He introduced these corset-free garments in 1906, the year before committed his decidedly uninhibited (and unstaid) “Demoiselles d’Avignon” to canvas. But with his love of the exotic, his brilliant use of color and pattern, and his penchant for simplified, almost rudimentary form, Poiret most resembles Poiret functioned as a kind of one-man cultural scene. He collected art, gave lavish costume parties and made astute use of the press while laying the groundwork for fashion design as a modern art and a modern business. His clients included , Nancy Cunard, Isadora Duncan, Colette and Helena Rubinstein. Man Ray photographed Peggy Guggenheim in a Poiret gown and turban. Edward Steichen’s first fashion photographs were taken of models in Poiret’s atelier. He was the first designer to understand the value of designing for well-known actresses both onstage and off. He was also the first to create his own line of perfume, named Rosine, for his eldest daughter, and the first to open an interior design store, Atelier Martine, named for his second daughter but inspired by the Weiner Werkstätte. His innovations included the chemise, harem pants and pantaloons and the popular lampshade skirt. When he visited the United States in 1913, he found himself called the king of fashion and discovered the underside of modern fashion success: His lampshade skirt was being copied far and wide. Organized by Harold Koda and Andrew Bolton, who are curator in charge and curator of the Met’s , “Poiret: King of Fashion” conveys quite a bit of his complex genius and his contradictory relationship with modernity. It displays 50 garments on mannequins (by Beyond Design) whose ovoid faces and cryptic features evoke Brancusi and Modigliani. The silk backdrops, which are the work of Jean-Hugues de Chatillon, a French set designer who served as the exhibition’s creative consultant, accent the show’s spaciousness with indelibly Parisian vistas of leafy parks, chic theaters and luxurious drawing rooms. All told you may have the sensation of drifting through a series of extraordinarily beautiful fashion illustrations, an art that Poiret cultivated to his advantage. Poiret’s liberation of the female body was in part inspired by the gamine build and independent spirit of his wife and muse, Denise, whom he married in 1905. In other ways it was born of necessity. Although he was initiated into the couturier business between 1898 and 1903, working as a designer for Jacques Doucet and then the House of Worth, Poiret never trained in the exacting crafts of couture tailoring or dressmaking. His design ideas began with the flat, rectangle of the fabric itself, as did the Japanese kimonos and North African caftans he admired. They then evolved through draping, not tailoring, into garments with a minimum of seams that pretty much hung from the shoulders. Poiret drew from a broad range of sources. Early in the show there is a trio of nightgowns, based on the Classical Greek gown known as the chiton, that are precursors to the 1950s negligee and the early 21st-century socialite party dress. To one side of these are two white high-waisted dresses that hark back to the severe yet demure gowns of post-Revolution France, displayed with an Atelier Martine chair that has bubbly hand-painted fabric. Nearby is evidence of Poiret’s attraction to a more ornate form of non-Western dress: a gauzy harem outfit studded with enormous beads of turquoise celluloid that Denise might have worn to their most famous fete, “The Thousand and Second Night” costume party on June 24, 1911. But turn around and you will see a stark simplicity that may take you aback: a gown that resembles nothing so much as a 1960s abstract painting. Wrapped gracefully around a mannequin, it has no sleeves or collar to speak of, just four broad, alternating bands of stylishly darkened red and blue. “Poiret: King of Fashion” is at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, Fifth Avenue at 82nd Street, (212) 535-7710, through Aug. 5. Next Article in Arts (4 of 13) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. The Face; Shock of the Few CRITIC'S NOTEBOOK; The Reckoning: Ralph Rucci At F.I.T. The Low Life And High Life, Hand in Hand Metropolitan Museum of Art Next Article in Arts (4 of 13) &#x00bb; A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/pages/arts/index.html?partner=rssnyt	Arts - New York Times Off the Beaten Beat Michael Falco for The New York Times Dan Deacon mans the keyboard at a loft party in Ridgewood, Queens, one of many sites that have emerged to replace the flashier Manhattan nightclub scene. Brooklyn in particular has become a major music nexus. Away from the bright lights of New York’s music scene, many artists are finding new performance spaces in strange, intimate locales. Harlem’s Cultural Anchor in a Sea of Ideas By FELICIA R. LEE As the Schomburg Center unveils its $11 million facelift, Harlem itself is also undergoing one of its periodic renaissances. Audio Slide Show: Fact vs. Fiction Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later' The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies By A. O. SCOTT “28 Weeks Later” is brutal and almost exhaustingly terrifying. It is also bracingly smart, both in its ideas and in its techniques. Art Review | 'Lincoln Kirstein' Kirstein’s Lust for Art and Artists This charming exhibition is about a few of the visual artists championed by Mr. Kirstein, who founded with Balanchine the New York City Ballet and American School of Ballet. Art Review | 'Poiret: King of Fashion' What to Wear to a Revolution The Metropolitan Museum of Art’s sumptuous survey of the designs of the French couturier Paul Poiret will transform your understanding of the origin of modern fashion. Nature, Nature, Burning Bright (High-Def Cameras Frame Thy Fearful Symmetry) Even the most selective library would be ruinously incomplete without the boxed set of “Planet Earth,” cable’s most highly rated natural history program of all time. A Loving Look at a Cinematic Tough Guy: Gangster, Hit Man, Gunslinger A retrospective of Lee Marvin’s work at the Film Society of Lincoln Center showcases an actor of diverse skills, but it’s his bad characters that remain the most memorable. Theater Review | 'Memory' From Wales, Tales of Berlin Then and Bethlehem Now If this flawed but compelling drama, part of the Brits Off Broadway festival, adds up to less than the sum of its parts, it is still engrossing throughout. Music Review | Arcade Fire From Little Clubs to Big Halls, an Indie Band Evolves The concert was the third of three sold-out New York City dates, and it proved that bigness suits this band. Compiled by LAWRENCE VAN GELDER Ken Burns agrees to add Hispanic veterans’ stories to his PBS film on World War II, Kim Cattrall and Daniel Radcliffe will star in a new film and more culture news. No Rain or Love, Till a Guy Promises Both Disillusioned Diva With Glimmers of Soul Melly Still on ‘Coram Boy’ You Go to a Fight, and a Boston Pops Concert Breaks Out Puffing Away That PG Rating 'Animal, Vegetable, Miracle,' by Barbara Kingsolver: Because It’s Good for You, That’s Why Art Review | International Fine Art Fair: Intimate Nooks Filled With Unexpected Treasures Dance Review | Urban Bush Women: Channeling Group Dynamics Fueled by the Power of Funk Music Review | Lisa Gerrard: The Somber Sound of Nondenominational Mysticism Music Review | Anat Cohen Quartet: A Musical World Traveler Who Likes to Mix Things Up Theater Review | 'Couples': Blissful and Benighted: Dispatches From the War of the Sexes Spare Times: For Children Movie Review | 'Casting About': The Cold Male Gaze Movie Review | 'Duck': A Sense of Purpose Takes Flight Movie Review | 'The Hip Hop Project': Beats With a Meaning Movie Review | 'The Salon': Cutting Hair and Cutting Remarks Movie Review | 'ShowBusiness': The Broad Scope of Broadway Movie Review | 'Provoked': Revisiting the True Story of a Battered Wife’s Revenge Movie Review | 'The Ex': Chasing an Old Flame, Taking No Prisoners Movie Review | 'Disappearances': Realism, Both Magic and Downright Mean Movie Review | 'Georgia Rule': Hey, California Girl, Don’t Mess With Grandma Inside Art: Guggenheim Foundation Takes Steps to Preserve Its Artistic Legacy The Glittering A-List of Black History 'Troublesome Young Men,' by Lynne Olson: In Churchill’s Rise to Power, a Rough Path of Rebellion 'The Joy of Drinking,' by Barbara Holland: Against Moderation Feeling the Burn, and the Triumph, After Some Gritty Labors Stomp, Sneeze, Grunt, Gasp and All That Body Language A Loving Look at a Cinematic Tough Guy: Gangster, Hit Man, Gunslinger From Little Clubs to Big Halls, an Indie Band Evolves Verizon Drops Pop Singer From Ads Nature, Nature, Burning Bright (High-Def Cameras Frame Thy Fearful Symmetry) From Wales, Tales of Berlin Then and Bethlehem Now from the past 7 days enter keyword or date e.g. April 21, 2001 Art Review | 'Let Your Motto Be Resistance' The Glittering A-List of Black History This exhibit is a little too fancy, too heavy on glitz, too short on grit. Still, what a party it is. By THE NEW YORK TIMES Reviews of exhibits by Myron Stout and Lisi Raskin, and of the show “Sugar Buzz.” Who uses YouTube? People like paul99503. Go to Blog » The Times's pop music critics discuss the latest albums and music events of the week. Download an MP3 Version Find your comprehensive television listings with this Longer editions of selected event listings in the New York area this week are now available online. The Week in Arts Where Are All the Black Swans? Speaking Love With Kurt and Lotte May 6 - May 12 FIND IT IN NYC MOST POPULAR - ARTS Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Music: Off the Beaten Beat Harlem&#8217;s Cultural Anchor in a Sea of Ideas Video Games: Finding Fellowship (Hairy Feet Optional) Film: A Loving Look at a Cinematic Tough Guy: Gangster, Hit Man, Gunslinger Movie Review | 'Georgia Rule': Hey, California Girl, Don&#8217;t Mess With Grandma Books of the Times: Because It&#8217;s Good for You, That&#8217;s Why Nature, Nature, Burning Bright (High-Def Cameras Frame Thy Fearful Symmetry) Art Review | 'Poiret: King of Fashion': What to Wear to a Revolution Lesley Blanch, 102, a Writer, Traveler and Adventure-Seeker, Dies Go to Complete List » Hush, Mama, Don't You Cry, A New Yellow Wiggle Will Sing Go to Complete List » Moore Blasts Bush Over Film - Trip Probe Cuba: Michael Moore Victim of Censorship Spielberg Joins Hollywood Chorus on Darfur Flea Ready for Summer, Teaching Kids Music Execs Silent As Rap Debate Rages Calif. Judge Hails Mel Gibson's Progress A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Hair Pulling Feat 1925 Buy, sell or rent a home. Which gadget is getting all the buzz? Get closer to film, music, art and plays. $3.15 a week. Plan what to see, eat and do. Tell us your nursing story. Inspiration & lessons. What movie should you see? The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/arts/design/11harl.html?ex=1336536000&en=de4176d49d104719&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Schomburg Center for Research in Black Culture - Harlem - New York Times Harlem’s Cultural Anchor in a Sea of Ideas Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 could almost see the ghosts among the new furniture and modern recessed lighting. It was a few days before the staff at the Schomburg Center for Research in Black Culture, at 135th Street and Boulevard in Harlem, finished hanging two exhibitions and stripping the paper off the doors at its bigger, brighter new entrance. Amid the sounds of hammers and drills, they prepared for tomorrow’s public celebration of the center’s two-year, $11 million renovation. Skip to next paragraph Ruby Washington/The New York Times A 1925 sign from the New York Public Library&#146;s Negro division. Ruby Washington/The New York Times The new facade at the Schomburg Center for Research in Black Culture. The Schomburg is as much a monument to an idea as it is a building. So those ghosts, workaday and luminous, inhabit a space of many incarnations, tracing its roots back to the 135th Street New York Public Library branch that opened there in 1905. Predominantly Jewish then, Harlem was mostly black by 1924. Over the years, Alex Haley researched “Roots” at the Schomburg; James Baldwin and both found it a refuge; a young honed his craft there. By the time it officially became the Schomburg in 1972, taking its name from Arturo Alfonso Schomburg, the Puerto Rican-born black bibliophile who donated his collection, it was a one-stop connection with the global black experience. Its wonders include a rare recording of a Marcus Garvey speech, documents signed by Toussaint L’Ouverture, a signed first edition of Phillis Wheatley’s poetry, daguerreotypes of African-Americans from the 1830s, Benjamin Banneker’s almanacs. Its exhibitions have tracked black migration and displayed the contents of Malcolm X’s pocket when he was gunned down at the Audubon Ballroom. “The center has increasingly become one of the cultural anchors of the greater Harlem community, one of the top three tourist destinations, along with the Apollo and the Studio Museum in Harlem ,” said Howard Dodson, the Schomburg director. “The kind of change that’s taking place in Harlem is of political, social and historical interest to the center, and we’ll be here to document it. We are not going anywhere.” As the Schomburg unveils its facelift, Harlem itself is also undergoing one of its periodic renaissances. There’s new real estate development, new stores and restaurants, new places to imbibe culture. The association with Harlem has been the constant for the Schomburg trove of more than five million items: art, manuscripts, films, photographs. The center has been a place for community meetings and for local politicians, for schoolchildren and eminent researchers like the historian John Hope Franklin. Thelma Golden, the director and chief curator of the Studio Museum, is among those who see the renovated Schomburg as an emblem of a Harlem at the top of its game. Hundreds of thousands of tourists pour into Harlem annually to shop in the stores on 125th Street, sit in the pews of the historic Abyssinian Baptist Church or revel in the serendipity of finding new cafes or dowager buildings. “The Schomburg stands as a bearer of the idea that our history and culture are important,” said Ms. Golden, who is African-American. “The renovation will reinvent the sense of the institution as living, breathing space. All the cultural institutions in Harlem are going through a period of incredible growth, and it’s not just about physical renovation.” A walk through Harlem makes vivid its embrace of many worlds. There are the tiny African braiding shops, mom-and-pop restaurants with an African or Caribbean flavor, as well as Citarella and Starbucks amid the cacophony of 125th Street, the area’s commercial spine. It is dotted with stores like Old Navy, as well as the Apollo and the Studio Museum. The streets are cleaner and safer than they have been in years. With its hilly topography and low-slung buildings framing the sky, these days Harlem is also a beehive of brownstone renovation and new construction. A few blocks from the Schomburg, condominiums are going up on either side of the street. Take a side street and you may glimpse decrepit apartment buildings or well-tended row houses shrouded in quiet. The new incarnation of the Schomburg Center, designed by the firm Dattner Architects, has more open spaces, light wood and glass, and is intended to be both more inviting and more distinctive than the old building. The center is part of the New York Public Library; the renovation was primarily financed by the city, with additional state support. The other day Mr. Dodson ticked off his plans for the center’s new resources, which include the latest technology. They include working with the Overtown community in Miami to develop an African diaspora heritage trail and helping officials in Liberia and South Africa to develop archives. Closer to home, the Schomburg is involved with the African Burial Ground project. In 1991 workers excavating the foundation for a new building uncovered human remains, which turned out to be from the site where historians say 15,000 slaves were buried from 1640 to 1795 on nearly seven acres near what is now City Hall Park and the Municipal Building. President Bush has proclaimed part of the space a national monument. On May 19 the papers donated by the family of Malcolm X will go on display at the Schomburg. Next Article in Arts (2 of 13) &#x00bb; Access 100 articles a month from The Archive - get it now with TimesSelect To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. MUSEUM REVIEW; The Personal Evolution Of a Civil Rights Giant Malcolm X the Thinker, Brought Into Focus Black Migration, Both Slave And Free An Artist Talked and a World Listens Schomburg Center for Research in Black Culture Next Article in Arts (2 of 13) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/arts/design/11harl.html	Schomburg Center for Research in Black Culture - Harlem - New York Times Harlem’s Cultural Anchor in a Sea of Ideas Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 could almost see the ghosts among the new furniture and modern recessed lighting. It was a few days before the staff at the Schomburg Center for Research in Black Culture, at 135th Street and Boulevard in Harlem, finished hanging two exhibitions and stripping the paper off the doors at its bigger, brighter new entrance. Amid the sounds of hammers and drills, they prepared for tomorrow’s public celebration of the center’s two-year, $11 million renovation. Skip to next paragraph Ruby Washington/The New York Times A 1925 sign from the New York Public Library&#146;s Negro division. Ruby Washington/The New York Times The new facade at the Schomburg Center for Research in Black Culture. The Schomburg is as much a monument to an idea as it is a building. So those ghosts, workaday and luminous, inhabit a space of many incarnations, tracing its roots back to the 135th Street New York Public Library branch that opened there in 1905. Predominantly Jewish then, Harlem was mostly black by 1924. Over the years, Alex Haley researched “Roots” at the Schomburg; James Baldwin and both found it a refuge; a young honed his craft there. By the time it officially became the Schomburg in 1972, taking its name from Arturo Alfonso Schomburg, the Puerto Rican-born black bibliophile who donated his collection, it was a one-stop connection with the global black experience. Its wonders include a rare recording of a Marcus Garvey speech, documents signed by Toussaint L’Ouverture, a signed first edition of Phillis Wheatley’s poetry, daguerreotypes of African-Americans from the 1830s, Benjamin Banneker’s almanacs. Its exhibitions have tracked black migration and displayed the contents of Malcolm X’s pocket when he was gunned down at the Audubon Ballroom. “The center has increasingly become one of the cultural anchors of the greater Harlem community, one of the top three tourist destinations, along with the Apollo and the Studio Museum in Harlem ,” said Howard Dodson, the Schomburg director. “The kind of change that’s taking place in Harlem is of political, social and historical interest to the center, and we’ll be here to document it. We are not going anywhere.” As the Schomburg unveils its facelift, Harlem itself is also undergoing one of its periodic renaissances. There’s new real estate development, new stores and restaurants, new places to imbibe culture. The association with Harlem has been the constant for the Schomburg trove of more than five million items: art, manuscripts, films, photographs. The center has been a place for community meetings and for local politicians, for schoolchildren and eminent researchers like the historian John Hope Franklin. Thelma Golden, the director and chief curator of the Studio Museum, is among those who see the renovated Schomburg as an emblem of a Harlem at the top of its game. Hundreds of thousands of tourists pour into Harlem annually to shop in the stores on 125th Street, sit in the pews of the historic Abyssinian Baptist Church or revel in the serendipity of finding new cafes or dowager buildings. “The Schomburg stands as a bearer of the idea that our history and culture are important,” said Ms. Golden, who is African-American. “The renovation will reinvent the sense of the institution as living, breathing space. All the cultural institutions in Harlem are going through a period of incredible growth, and it’s not just about physical renovation.” A walk through Harlem makes vivid its embrace of many worlds. There are the tiny African braiding shops, mom-and-pop restaurants with an African or Caribbean flavor, as well as Citarella and Starbucks amid the cacophony of 125th Street, the area’s commercial spine. It is dotted with stores like Old Navy, as well as the Apollo and the Studio Museum. The streets are cleaner and safer than they have been in years. With its hilly topography and low-slung buildings framing the sky, these days Harlem is also a beehive of brownstone renovation and new construction. A few blocks from the Schomburg, condominiums are going up on either side of the street. Take a side street and you may glimpse decrepit apartment buildings or well-tended row houses shrouded in quiet. The new incarnation of the Schomburg Center, designed by the firm Dattner Architects, has more open spaces, light wood and glass, and is intended to be both more inviting and more distinctive than the old building. The center is part of the New York Public Library; the renovation was primarily financed by the city, with additional state support. The other day Mr. Dodson ticked off his plans for the center’s new resources, which include the latest technology. They include working with the Overtown community in Miami to develop an African diaspora heritage trail and helping officials in Liberia and South Africa to develop archives. Closer to home, the Schomburg is involved with the African Burial Ground project. In 1991 workers excavating the foundation for a new building uncovered human remains, which turned out to be from the site where historians say 15,000 slaves were buried from 1640 to 1795 on nearly seven acres near what is now City Hall Park and the Municipal Building. President Bush has proclaimed part of the space a national monument. On May 19 the papers donated by the family of Malcolm X will go on display at the Schomburg. Next Article in Arts (2 of 13) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. MUSEUM REVIEW; The Personal Evolution Of a Civil Rights Giant Malcolm X the Thinker, Brought Into Focus Black Migration, Both Slave And Free An Artist Talked and a World Listens Schomburg Center for Research in Black Culture Next Article in Arts (2 of 13) &#x00bb; A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/arts/music/11rock.html?ex=1336536000&en=f3bcd6549aa389ce&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	New York Night Life - Brooklyn - Alternative Music - Parties - New York Times Off the Beaten Beat Michael Falco for The New York Times Dan Deacon mans the keyboard at a loft party in Ridgewood, Queens, one of many sites that have emerged to replace the flashier Manhattan nightclub scene. Brooklyn in particular has become a major music nexus. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 ON Monday night inside the GlassLands Gallery, a converted warehouse in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, 100 or so people, alerted by MySpace pages and music blogs, gathered for a concert by the Yeah Yeah Yeahs. For an hour, the singer Karen O yelped and shrieked and pranced around a makeshift stage in a paint-splattered gold bodysuit, often wading into the audience a few feet away. At the end of the night the band took requests; to close the set, as her band mates played on, Ms. O paraded most of the crowd toward an alley behind the building, a musical moment as intimate as a reigning rock star can have. Skip to next paragraph Rock Off the Radar The Demimonde Doesn’t Vanish, It Just Changes Location “We hardly play small venues anymore, but this one is definitely special and personal,” Ms. O said afterward. “My favorite kind of party to be at or show to see is a house show. This is as close as you get.” Amid the teeter-totter energy that currently defines New York’s music scene — where the lamented demise of one club is offset by the splashier opening of another — many artists can be found outside that playground entirely, performing at off-the-beaten-path locales like warehouses, rooftops, apartments or inside a Brooklyn oil silo. Music fans with limited funds and a taste for adventure look forward to the summer concert season, which is about to turn the city’s parks and other public spaces into musical free-for-alls. But there are already many places to see bands for little money, without sellout crowds, ticket surcharges or security pat-downs. (Yes, Virginia, there’s even cheap beer.) And the lineups are diverse. Experimental music did not die with the closing of Tonic, nor did grungy rock with the fall of CBGB. With a little planning and an active MetroCard you might catch the next Arcade Fire performing in a parking lot. “Anything is a venue,” said the promoter Todd Patrick, known professionally as Todd P. For six years he has made it his mission to program music in far-flung places, from divey bars in Greenpoint to Lutheran churches to private lofts. Now New York’s alt-location guru, he has recently expanded to work with bands on the verge of stardom (Animal Collective, which he booked in 2005) and even nationally known acts (Oneida, Trans Am) at large clubs like Studio B in Brooklyn, winning the attention of the music industry. But Mr. Patrick’s hallmark remains the cheap, on-the-fly, do-it-yourself concert, promoted through his Web site ( ), his e-mail list (13,000 strong) and MySpace, blog and newspaper and magazine listings. Essentially a one-man band, Mr. Patrick, 31, has interns who work the door (ticket prices rarely go above $10) and stamp hands (he only does all-ages shows) while he helps set up. “Because the idea is about D.I.Y., I like to show the strings,” he said. “I want people to come to the show and see me build the P.A. system, see that there’s nothing glossy about what we’re doing. I think alternative venues are a great way of doing that. It just kind of throws it off. If a club is the quote-unquote appropriate place to see music, why do people have so much more fun in a warehouse?” Last weekend was typical: On Saturday night he booked shows at two unexpected spaces, an Ecuadorian restaurant across from a low-income housing project in Bushwick, Brooklyn, and a loft apartment in Ridgewood, Queens. Both drew several hundred people to outer-borough neighborhoods not typically known as destinations. The restaurant, Don Pedro, had a full menu of ceviche, $3 bottles of Negra Modelo and a small stage in a brick-walled back room where Cass McCombs, a singer with a Lou Reed croon, performed to a packed house. William Alberque, 36, a Defense Department analyst visiting from Washington and a longtime fan of Mr. McCombs’s, said he preferred seeing him anywhere but a rock club. “The D.I.Y. spirit is wonderful,” he said. “It’s just you and the band, five feet away. You buy into what’s happening so much more. It gives you musical butterflies.” At the loft there was even less distance (and more butterflies). The headliner, Dan Deacon, a sensitive electro-party rocker from Baltimore, performed on a patch of carpet in the middle of the room. No stage or bouncer separated him from his audience, which swarmed around, fists pumping, creating a heaving, dancing, steaming mosh pit. Even the walls vibrated. Next Article in Arts (1 of 13) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Chosen by David Bowie, Shows That He&#8217;d Attend Kitty Carlisle Hart, a New York Blend of Actress, Singer and Arts Advocate, Dies at 96 Classical Music Looks Toward China With Hope For 'Blue-Collar' Musicians, A 'Factory' All Their Own Next Article in Arts (1 of 13) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/arts/design/11mott.html?ex=1336536000&en=f0341512041cb00e&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	The Glittering A-List of Black History - New York Times Art Review | 'Let Your Motto Be Resistance' The Glittering A-List of Black History Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 “Let Your Motto Be Resistance: African American Portraits” at the International Center of Photography is a praise song in pictures, a shoutout to history. It’s also a fancy-dress inaugural party for the yet-to-be-built National Museum of African American History and Culture in Washington. As such, it is a little too fancy, too heavy on glitz, too short on grit. Still, what a party it is. Skip to next paragraph Benedict J. Fernandez/National Portrait Gallery The coffin of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. surrounded by mourners, including his children, in the show &#147;Let Your Motto Be Resistance.&#148; Estate of Linda McCartney/National Portrait Gallery Jimi Hendrix in 1967, one of the glamorous shots in the exhibition. The guest list includes an abbreviated Who’s Who of charismatic black statesmen, from Frederick Douglass to Malcolm X. In terms of entertainment, the event is beyond compare. and Bill (Bojangles) Robinson dance. Sarah Vaughan, Leontyne Price and Odetta share a stage, with Sidney Bechet on sax, and Hazel Scott, looking divine, at the keyboard. You’d look divine too if you had James VanDerZee behind the camera, or Berenice Abbott or Edward Weston or Addison N. Scurlock or any of the other great photographers responsible for the 100 vintage-print portraits here, all from the archives of the Smithsonian’s National Portrait Gallery. There are more artists and writers than usual at such an affair. You’ll recognize Horace Pippin, Edmonia Lewis and a beaming Lorraine Hansberry, by name if not by face. And a few people you may be meeting for the first time. Ernest Everett Just (1883-1941), a pioneering biologist who spent much of his career in Europe after he was stonewalled by the American scientific establishment. And Henry Highland Garnet (1815-1882), a Maryland slave who escaped north, became an abolitionist firebrand and delivered the phrase that gives the show its title: “Strike for your lives and liberties. Rather die freemen than live to be slaves. Let your motto be resistance! Resistance! Resistance!” As you look around the gallery, you can imagine some of the portraits reacting to his call. Elizabeth Catlett (in a wonderful likeness by Mariana Yampolsky), A. Philip Randolph, , Sojourner Truth and a young, blanket-swaddled James Baldwin seem to hear it and they’re on the alert. Mr. Garnet’s words aren’t party words. They are stark, preaching, move-now words. Which brings us back to the kind of party this is. It is, as I said, a housewarming in advance, and a buzz-builder, for a national African-American museum. When that museum goes up on the National Mall — 2015 is the target date — an essential aspect of American history will have its official monument. America and African America are one and the same. They’re inseparable. If this show can be taken as a preview of exhibitions to come, what will that history look like? Obviously, it will have glamour to burn, to judge by the lush, burnished portraits chosen by the guest curator, Deborah Willis, a professor of photography at Roland Hayes, who sang like an angel, looks like an angel in a 1934 light-and-shadow likeness attributed to Johan Hagemeyer. floats like a butterfly for Philippe Halsman’s Vogue-savvy eye. One after another, people glow or glower. Everyone is a star, an inspiration, a certified member of W. E. B. DuBois’s Talented Tenth. This Hall of Fame approach to cultural history delivers thrills, no question. But it also has a too easy, been-there air. The show feels like a throwback to another era, to a kind of exhibition that might have been mounted 20 years ago at the Studio Museum in Harlem , an institution that was until recently deeply invested in black pride, devoted to ethnic uplift. That devotion was effective in its time. Among many other things, it encouraged the upward mobility of what has since become an economically and politically powerful black middle class. But is uplift on the same terms, for the same ends, the right framework for viewing African-American, or any other American, history in 2007? Is Bright and Beautiful the model to follow? The show doesn’t entirely adhere to the model. Wall texts make clear that almost every person portrayed had to fight bitter odds for a seat in front of the camera. Each likeness was, consciously or by default, an effort to cast the African-American image, distorted by racism, in acceptably positive, mainstream terms. Three images, set by side by side at the start of the show, make life-and-death stakes clear. In a 1956 picture the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. — just a year after he had successfully used passive resistance as a tactical tool in Montgomery, Ala. — stands in the sunshine beside his smiling wife, Coretta, holding their infant daughter, Yolanda Denise, in his arms. In 1968 the same daughter, now in her teens, looks down at her murdered father in his coffin as her 5-year-old sister, Bernice, reacts with open-mouthed shock to the sight. A year later Stephen Shames catches the 25-year-old Angela Davis standing at a microphone, her mouth open to deliver a speech. Passive resistance is over; active resistance has begun. Significantly, some of the best things in the show are action shots: the Supremes — Diana, Mary and Flo — in a recording session; Stokely Carmichael and a white-suited Adam Clayton Powell Jr. cracking up at a joke; impassively hawking broadsides on the street; Marian Anderson singing as a skinny young These portraits are close to snapshots; their subjects look like regular people, Americans who happen to be black, in the middle of their accomplished lives. African America has, of course, a distinctive history, of profound pain and amazing grace. But the figures in these on-the-fly images are also part of a larger fabric: We the People. They are us; we are them. And with all our shared flaws and heroisms, we make up one mercurial, complicated, crazy quilt of a crew. Many of the young artists seen at the Studio Museum these days are intensely interested in complications, in giving “black” and “white” hard critical scrutiny, in consigning racial pride, along with all other essentialisms, to the shelf. Such artists resist the old, easy-chair version of history that this crowd-pleaser of a show comes too close to emulating. I hope the National Museum of African American History and Culture will resist it too, when it finally gets the home it should have had years ago at the heart of the nation. “Let Your Motto Be Resistance: African American Portraits” continues through Sept. 9 at the International Center of Photography, 1133 Avenue of the Americas, at 43rd Street; (212) 857-0000, icp.org. It opens at the National Portrait Gallery in Washington on Oct. 9. Next Article in Arts (5 of 13) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Gay Art: A Movement, or at Least a Moment A Young Man With an Eye, and Friends Up a Tree Unfamiliar Perspectives on Familiar Images International Center of Photography Next Article in Arts (5 of 13) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/arts/design/11kirs.html	Lincoln Kirstein - Whitney Museum of American Art - New York Times Art Review | 'Lincoln Kirstein' Kirstein’s Lust for Art and Artists Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 Tucked away on the top floor of the Whitney Museum of American Art is another centenary tribute, in a season of them, to the man who brought to the United States. Lincoln Kirstein (1907-1996) is best remembered for founding with Balanchine the New York City Ballet and American School of Ballet. But as a friend of his put it, he had “more arms than Shiva.” Skip to next paragraph A show of artists Kirstein championed is at the Whitney and includes a portait of himself by Pavel Tchelitchew. 'The Worlds of Lincoln Kirstein,' by Martin Duberman: A Paragon of the Arts, as Both Man and Titan 'The Worlds of Lincoln Kirstein,' by Martin Duberman: The Outsider Insider Dance: Recalling Kirstein, Endearing Monster Metropolitan Museum of Art A portrait of Lincoln Kirstein as a college student, by Walker Evans. This charming exhibition is about a few of the visual artists he championed. The son of a prominent Boston merchant prince, Kirstein became involved with art during his undergraduate days at when he edited Hound and Horn and helped run the Society for Contemporary Art. Over the years he organized shows, collected art, wrote books and criticism for The New Republic, and gave struggling artists saving doses of money. During the middle decades of the last century Kirstein particularly relished attacking the Museum of Modern Art, with which he had collaborated early on but then came to oppose. Pure abstraction was ridiculous, he thought. It had no standards. Against Mondrian and Pollock, Kirstein endorsed, among others, the artists in the show here. They are the sculptors Elie Nadelman and Gaston Lachaise and the painters Paul Cadmus, who was Kirstein’s brother-in-law, and Pavel Tchelitchew, the flamboyant, socially connected Russian expatriate and set designer who became Kirstein’s good friend. The show also includes Walker Evans. Kirstein, long before most others, recognized photography as an art and Evans as a genius. With the exception of Evans, Kirstein’s taste clearly hasn’t won the day, but victory is not everything in matters of artistic rank. Impassioned contrarians like Kirstein have enriched the debate over American art since the 19th century, battling complacency and more than occasionally calling the bluff of avant-gardists who don’t have very good explanations for what they’re doing. It’s a pity that this show doesn’t venture further. At the Society for Contemporary Art Kirstein exhibited Calder and Noguchi. He pioneered writing about and film. At the Modern in the early 1930s he put together a show of mural paintings by Ben Shahn, Stuart Davis, Hugo Gellert and others, which provoked a ruckus with the museum board because much of the art was left-wing. It flopped with critics but deserves a fresh look, if only to recall Kirstein’s polemical zeal and fleeting Bolshevism. A decade later he roamed South America hunting for Latin American art for the Modern. It would be fascinating to unearth what he brought back. Lucian Freud started but never finished Kirstein’s portrait because they got into a fistfight. It should be seen alongside the portraits by Evans, Lachaise and Tchelitchew that the Whitney includes. That wasn’t all. Kirstein wrote about an obscure 19th-century British-American painter named William Rimmer. He married a painter, Fidelma Cadmus. And he enthused over Andrew Wyeth, Jamie Wyeth, George Tooker, Jared French, Henry Koerner and many others whom he truly believed would be remembered after , Beckmann and Dalí were relegated to storage. It hasn’t happened yet. “As for personal favorites, we all have them,” Kirstein once wrote to Lloyd Goodrich, who ran the Whitney during the 1940s. “My attitude is merely against the idea of improvisation, decoration, fragmentation and stylization.” Goodrich wrote back, “By too sweeping condemnation you can do great harm to artists and to the public’s relation to all living art.” They were both exaggerating. Kirstein couldn’t hold back in private. It wasn’t his nature. To his brother-in-law, a gentle soul, he wrote after seeing Cadmus’s painting called “Lust,” of a monstrous woman wrapped in a giant condom: “I do not understand your aching agony about the flesh. I suppose it partly comes from hating being queer” and from the “curdled Catholicism of your nasty youth. I think it is a romantic and immature attitude.” Kirstein, whose own sexuality was fluid, went on: “I don’t think anything as impermanent as flesh is corrupt. Lust isn’t so bad, it lasts no time at all and is not destructive.” How refreshing. Kirstein may be excused for resorting to a language of equivocation and innuendo in public. Explaining, in a book on Cadmus, the splay-legged sailors and naked men sharing a bathroom, he wrote, “As for sexual factors, he has without ostentation or polemic long celebrated somatic health in boys and young men for its symbolic range of human possibility.” Whatever. It was a different era. He liked Cadmus because representational art demanded measurable skill; it depended (here was the link to ballet) on established modes for exhibiting the human body. Out of it came the whole “symbolic range of human possibility.” So Cadmus leaned on Renaissance models. Lachaise looked at Egyptian statues when he sculptured Kirstein’s portrait as a naked man striding. (It’s in the show.) Tchelitchew’s dexterous but rather mysterious style, which is sometimes called visionary but is basically surreal, harked back to Leonardo. And Nadelman contrived urban-folk sculpture that celebrated traditional handicraft. “Lincoln Kirstein” continues through Aug. 27 at the Whitney Museum of American Art, 945 Madison Avenue, at 75th Street; (212) 570-3676, whitney.org. Next Article in Arts (3 of 13) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. BOOKS OF THE TIMES; A Paragon of the Arts, as Both Man and Titan Saint-Gaudens Group To Honor Kirstein Whitney Museum of American Art Next Article in Arts (3 of 13) &#x00bb; A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/arts/music/11rock.html	New York Night Life - Brooklyn - Alternative Music - Parties - New York Times Off the Beaten Beat Michael Falco for The New York Times Dan Deacon mans the keyboard at a loft party in Ridgewood, Queens, one of many sites that have emerged to replace the flashier Manhattan nightclub scene. Brooklyn in particular has become a major music nexus. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 ON Monday night inside the GlassLands Gallery, a converted warehouse in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, 100 or so people, alerted by MySpace pages and music blogs, gathered for a concert by the Yeah Yeah Yeahs. For an hour, the singer Karen O yelped and shrieked and pranced around a makeshift stage in a paint-splattered gold bodysuit, often wading into the audience a few feet away. At the end of the night the band took requests; to close the set, as her band mates played on, Ms. O paraded most of the crowd toward an alley behind the building, a musical moment as intimate as a reigning rock star can have. Skip to next paragraph Rock Off the Radar The Demimonde Doesn’t Vanish, It Just Changes Location “We hardly play small venues anymore, but this one is definitely special and personal,” Ms. O said afterward. “My favorite kind of party to be at or show to see is a house show. This is as close as you get.” Amid the teeter-totter energy that currently defines New York’s music scene — where the lamented demise of one club is offset by the splashier opening of another — many artists can be found outside that playground entirely, performing at off-the-beaten-path locales like warehouses, rooftops, apartments or inside a Brooklyn oil silo. Music fans with limited funds and a taste for adventure look forward to the summer concert season, which is about to turn the city’s parks and other public spaces into musical free-for-alls. But there are already many places to see bands for little money, without sellout crowds, ticket surcharges or security pat-downs. (Yes, Virginia, there’s even cheap beer.) And the lineups are diverse. Experimental music did not die with the closing of Tonic, nor did grungy rock with the fall of CBGB. With a little planning and an active MetroCard you might catch the next Arcade Fire performing in a parking lot. “Anything is a venue,” said the promoter Todd Patrick, known professionally as Todd P. For six years he has made it his mission to program music in far-flung places, from divey bars in Greenpoint to Lutheran churches to private lofts. Now New York’s alt-location guru, he has recently expanded to work with bands on the verge of stardom (Animal Collective, which he booked in 2005) and even nationally known acts (Oneida, Trans Am) at large clubs like Studio B in Brooklyn, winning the attention of the music industry. But Mr. Patrick’s hallmark remains the cheap, on-the-fly, do-it-yourself concert, promoted through his Web site ( ), his e-mail list (13,000 strong) and MySpace, blog and newspaper and magazine listings. Essentially a one-man band, Mr. Patrick, 31, has interns who work the door (ticket prices rarely go above $10) and stamp hands (he only does all-ages shows) while he helps set up. “Because the idea is about D.I.Y., I like to show the strings,” he said. “I want people to come to the show and see me build the P.A. system, see that there’s nothing glossy about what we’re doing. I think alternative venues are a great way of doing that. It just kind of throws it off. If a club is the quote-unquote appropriate place to see music, why do people have so much more fun in a warehouse?” Last weekend was typical: On Saturday night he booked shows at two unexpected spaces, an Ecuadorian restaurant across from a low-income housing project in Bushwick, Brooklyn, and a loft apartment in Ridgewood, Queens. Both drew several hundred people to outer-borough neighborhoods not typically known as destinations. The restaurant, Don Pedro, had a full menu of ceviche, $3 bottles of Negra Modelo and a small stage in a brick-walled back room where Cass McCombs, a singer with a Lou Reed croon, performed to a packed house. William Alberque, 36, a Defense Department analyst visiting from Washington and a longtime fan of Mr. McCombs’s, said he preferred seeing him anywhere but a rock club. “The D.I.Y. spirit is wonderful,” he said. “It’s just you and the band, five feet away. You buy into what’s happening so much more. It gives you musical butterflies.” At the loft there was even less distance (and more butterflies). The headliner, Dan Deacon, a sensitive electro-party rocker from Baltimore, performed on a patch of carpet in the middle of the room. No stage or bouncer separated him from his audience, which swarmed around, fists pumping, creating a heaving, dancing, steaming mosh pit. Even the walls vibrated. Next Article in Arts (1 of 13) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Chosen by David Bowie, Shows That He&#8217;d Attend Kitty Carlisle Hart, a New York Blend of Actress, Singer and Arts Advocate, Dies at 96 Classical Music Looks Toward China With Hope For 'Blue-Collar' Musicians, A 'Factory' All Their Own Next Article in Arts (1 of 13) &#x00bb; A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer NYT ESSENTIAL LIBRARY: OPERA Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://movies2.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/movies/11late.html	28 Weeks Later - Movies - Review - New York Times MOVIE REVIEW | '28 WEEKS LATER' MORE ON '28 Weeks Later' The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Emily Beecham in &#34;28 Weeks Later,&#34; directed by Juan Carlos Fresnadillo. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 Nothing satisfies the appetite for allegory quite like a movie about flesh-eating zombies. Somehow the genre, at least as practiced by its masters, has the capacity to illuminate some brute facts about the human condition and its contemporary dysfunctions. There are not many recent movies that match, for example, the social criticism undertaken by George Romero in his “Living Dead” cycle. Skip to next paragraph Anatomy of a Scene: '28 Weeks Later' Movie Minutes: '28 Weeks Later' A group of Londoners run through a tunnel as London is being firebombed in &#34;28 Weeks Later.&#34; and its new sequel, directed by Juan Carlos Fresnadillo, may not quite be in Mr. Romero’s league, but at their best they come close to his signature blend of grisly horror, emotional impact and biting satire. There is, of course, plenty of literal biting as well, since the virus-crazed creatures known as infecteds crave the flesh and blood of their erstwhile fellow citizens. And also their metaphorical flesh and blood. The first movie, set in the early days of a pandemic that nearly wiped out the population of Britain, followed a small band of strangers who came together to form a makeshift tribe. This time, after the first wave of the virus seems to have run its course, the focus is on families and comrades split apart and set against one another by paranoia, moral confusion and the endless conflict between the survival instinct and the call of duty. If “28 Days Later” was, in part, about the emergence of solidarity in the midst of crisis, “28 Weeks Later” is about the breakdown that occurs in what seems to be the aftermath. The DVD of Mr. Boyle’s film has two alternate endings, one slightly more comforting than the other. The hopeful conclusion (the one originally released in American theaters) turns out to be a slender thread leading to Mr. Fresnadillo’s more hectic and somewhat grimmer sequel. The story (written by Rowan Joffe, Mr. Fresnadillo, E. L. Lavigne and Jesus Olmo, with Mr. Boyle and his frequent collaborator, Alex Garland, on hand as executive producers) begins with a terrible failure of nerve. Fleeing a zombie attack, Don (a gaunt, appropriately anxious ) abandons his wife, Alice ( ), to a gruesome and apparently inevitable fate. A few months later, he is safe in the Green Zone, an island of security in London overseen by occupying American troops led by General Stone (Idris Elba). There, he is reunited with his children, Andy (Mackintosh Muggleton) and Tammy (Imogen Poots), who had been on a school trip to Spain during the initial outbreak. He lies to them about their mother’s fate, and his dishonesty is punished in due course. That bit about American soldiers patrolling the Green Zone — see what I mean about allegory? — may make “28 Weeks Later” sound heavy-handedly topical. But as in any good science fiction fable, the analogies it offers to contemporary reality are speculative rather than obvious. The initial benevolence of the occupation is clear enough: a shattered country needs to be put back together, its remaining population protected and reassured. It is only when things spin out of control that the inherent brutality of the situation becomes clear, but here again the movie poses intractable conundrums rather than scoring easy points. To the soldiers and the survivors alike, there are only bad choices, and doing what seems like the right thing — firebombing an open city or rescuing children from the bombs — can turn out to have horrendous consequences. Mr. Fresnadillo’s first movie, the Spanish-language thriller showed him to be a filmmaker with technical agility and a decidedly philosophical bent. Here the thinking is done on the run, as the collapse of order unfolds through scenes of panic and chaos. These are often too frenetically edited and murkily lighted to be truly scary, and the higher dose of gore — infecteds chopped up by helicopter blades; bodies exploding in blood as bullets fly into them — is not enough to increase the horror. The real terror comes at quieter moments, when aerial shots survey the echoing emptiness of London, or when Tammy and Andy sneak out of the Green Zone into the surrounding desolation. “London’s mine,” Andy exclaims, and the claustrophobic suspense of the film is occasionally leavened by a sense of adventure. The threat of death brings out noble impulses as well as selfish ones. Don’s cowardice stands in contrast to the selflessness of some of the American soldiers: Scarlet (Rose Byrne), a medical officer; Doyle (Jeremy Renner), a sniper whose conscience gets the better of him; and, more reluctantly, Flynn (Harold Perrineau), a chopper pilot with pictures of his kids taped above the windshield. “28 Weeks Later” is not for the faint of heart or the weak of stomach. It is brutal and almost exhaustingly terrifying, as any respectable zombie movie should be. It is also bracingly smart, both in its ideas and in its techniques. The last shot brought a burst of laughter at the screening I attended, a reaction that seemed to me both an acknowledgment of Mr. Fresnadillo’s wit and a defense against his merciless rigor. Anyway, I was glad the person next to me was laughing, rather than chewing through my neck. That level of horror will have to wait for the next sequel. “28 Weeks Later” is rated R (Under 17 requires accompanying parent or adult guardian). Rabid zombies feast on living flesh, which causes their potential victims to utter an occasional obscenity. Directed by Juan Carlos Fresnadillo; written by Rowan Joffe, Mr. Fresnadillo, E. L. Lavigne and Jesus Olmo; director of photography, Enrique Chediak; edited by Chris Gill; music by John Murphy; production designer, Mark Tildesley; produced by Enrique López-Lavigne, Andrew Macdonald and Allon Reich; released by Fox Atomic. Running time: 91 minutes. (Don), Rose Byrne (Scarlet), Jeremy Renner (Doyle), Harold Perrineau (Flynn), (Alice), Mackintosh Muggleton (Andy), Imogen Poots (Tammy), Idris Elba (General Stone) and Emily Beecham (Karen). Next Article in Movies (1 of 66) &#x00bb; Report a Problem Post (4.6 stars, 10 votes) Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. MOVIE SHOWTIMES AND TICKETS The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » Kickin' It Old Skool Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/arts/design/11kirs.html?ex=1336536000&en=ec29ca20bd72f036&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Lincoln Kirstein - Whitney Museum of American Art - New York Times Art Review | 'Lincoln Kirstein' Kirstein’s Lust for Art and Artists Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 Tucked away on the top floor of the Whitney Museum of American Art is another centenary tribute, in a season of them, to the man who brought to the United States. Lincoln Kirstein (1907-1996) is best remembered for founding with Balanchine the New York City Ballet and American School of Ballet. But as a friend of his put it, he had “more arms than Shiva.” Skip to next paragraph A show of artists Kirstein championed is at the Whitney and includes a portait of himself by Pavel Tchelitchew. 'The Worlds of Lincoln Kirstein,' by Martin Duberman: A Paragon of the Arts, as Both Man and Titan 'The Worlds of Lincoln Kirstein,' by Martin Duberman: The Outsider Insider Dance: Recalling Kirstein, Endearing Monster Metropolitan Museum of Art A portrait of Lincoln Kirstein as a college student, by Walker Evans. This charming exhibition is about a few of the visual artists he championed. The son of a prominent Boston merchant prince, Kirstein became involved with art during his undergraduate days at when he edited Hound and Horn and helped run the Society for Contemporary Art. Over the years he organized shows, collected art, wrote books and criticism for The New Republic, and gave struggling artists saving doses of money. During the middle decades of the last century Kirstein particularly relished attacking the Museum of Modern Art, with which he had collaborated early on but then came to oppose. Pure abstraction was ridiculous, he thought. It had no standards. Against Mondrian and Pollock, Kirstein endorsed, among others, the artists in the show here. They are the sculptors Elie Nadelman and Gaston Lachaise and the painters Paul Cadmus, who was Kirstein’s brother-in-law, and Pavel Tchelitchew, the flamboyant, socially connected Russian expatriate and set designer who became Kirstein’s good friend. The show also includes Walker Evans. Kirstein, long before most others, recognized photography as an art and Evans as a genius. With the exception of Evans, Kirstein’s taste clearly hasn’t won the day, but victory is not everything in matters of artistic rank. Impassioned contrarians like Kirstein have enriched the debate over American art since the 19th century, battling complacency and more than occasionally calling the bluff of avant-gardists who don’t have very good explanations for what they’re doing. It’s a pity that this show doesn’t venture further. At the Society for Contemporary Art Kirstein exhibited Calder and Noguchi. He pioneered writing about and film. At the Modern in the early 1930s he put together a show of mural paintings by Ben Shahn, Stuart Davis, Hugo Gellert and others, which provoked a ruckus with the museum board because much of the art was left-wing. It flopped with critics but deserves a fresh look, if only to recall Kirstein’s polemical zeal and fleeting Bolshevism. A decade later he roamed South America hunting for Latin American art for the Modern. It would be fascinating to unearth what he brought back. Lucian Freud started but never finished Kirstein’s portrait because they got into a fistfight. It should be seen alongside the portraits by Evans, Lachaise and Tchelitchew that the Whitney includes. That wasn’t all. Kirstein wrote about an obscure 19th-century British-American painter named William Rimmer. He married a painter, Fidelma Cadmus. And he enthused over Andrew Wyeth, Jamie Wyeth, George Tooker, Jared French, Henry Koerner and many others whom he truly believed would be remembered after , Beckmann and Dalí were relegated to storage. It hasn’t happened yet. “As for personal favorites, we all have them,” Kirstein once wrote to Lloyd Goodrich, who ran the Whitney during the 1940s. “My attitude is merely against the idea of improvisation, decoration, fragmentation and stylization.” Goodrich wrote back, “By too sweeping condemnation you can do great harm to artists and to the public’s relation to all living art.” They were both exaggerating. Kirstein couldn’t hold back in private. It wasn’t his nature. To his brother-in-law, a gentle soul, he wrote after seeing Cadmus’s painting called “Lust,” of a monstrous woman wrapped in a giant condom: “I do not understand your aching agony about the flesh. I suppose it partly comes from hating being queer” and from the “curdled Catholicism of your nasty youth. I think it is a romantic and immature attitude.” Kirstein, whose own sexuality was fluid, went on: “I don’t think anything as impermanent as flesh is corrupt. Lust isn’t so bad, it lasts no time at all and is not destructive.” How refreshing. Kirstein may be excused for resorting to a language of equivocation and innuendo in public. Explaining, in a book on Cadmus, the splay-legged sailors and naked men sharing a bathroom, he wrote, “As for sexual factors, he has without ostentation or polemic long celebrated somatic health in boys and young men for its symbolic range of human possibility.” Whatever. It was a different era. He liked Cadmus because representational art demanded measurable skill; it depended (here was the link to ballet) on established modes for exhibiting the human body. Out of it came the whole “symbolic range of human possibility.” So Cadmus leaned on Renaissance models. Lachaise looked at Egyptian statues when he sculptured Kirstein’s portrait as a naked man striding. (It’s in the show.) Tchelitchew’s dexterous but rather mysterious style, which is sometimes called visionary but is basically surreal, harked back to Leonardo. And Nadelman contrived urban-folk sculpture that celebrated traditional handicraft. “Lincoln Kirstein” continues through Aug. 27 at the Whitney Museum of American Art, 945 Madison Avenue, at 75th Street; (212) 570-3676, whitney.org. Next Article in Arts (3 of 13) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. BOOKS OF THE TIMES; A Paragon of the Arts, as Both Man and Titan Saint-Gaudens Group To Honor Kirstein Whitney Museum of American Art Next Article in Arts (3 of 13) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/arts/design/11poir.html?ex=1336536000&en=0c9d801cf8a47cf4&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Poiret: King of Fashion - Art - Review - New York Times Art Review | 'Poiret: King of Fashion' What to Wear to a Revolution Anna Marie Kellen/Galliera, Musee de la Mode de la Ville de Paris Paul Poiret&#146;s 1905 R&#233;v&#233;rend Coat, embellished with Chinese roundels. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 “Poiret: King of Fashion,” the Metropolitan Museum of Art ’s sumptuous survey of the designs of the French couturier Paul Poiret (1879-1944), will transform your understanding of the origin of modern fashion. Its radiant hand-painted silk backdrops may also increase your appreciation of the art of set design; they magically create an immersive beauty out of almost nothing. Skip to next paragraph Man Ray Trust/Artists Rights Society (ARS)/ADAGP A 1923 Man Ray photograph of Peggy Guggenheim wearing a dress by Poiret. Poiret’s achievement is not as visible today as that of Coco Chanel, who built on some of his ideas and discarded others. His fashion house closed in 1929, and he spent his remaining years impoverished. But Poiret was for a while a revolutionary in revolutionary times and also a canny impresario. His radically streamlined, unstructured, often stridently colored clothes freed women from corsets while evoking exotic, non-Western cultures and a fierce disregard for social convention. He introduced these corset-free garments in 1906, the year before committed his decidedly uninhibited (and unstaid) “Demoiselles d’Avignon” to canvas. But with his love of the exotic, his brilliant use of color and pattern, and his penchant for simplified, almost rudimentary form, Poiret most resembles Poiret functioned as a kind of one-man cultural scene. He collected art, gave lavish costume parties and made astute use of the press while laying the groundwork for fashion design as a modern art and a modern business. His clients included , Nancy Cunard, Isadora Duncan, Colette and Helena Rubinstein. Man Ray photographed Peggy Guggenheim in a Poiret gown and turban. Edward Steichen’s first fashion photographs were taken of models in Poiret’s atelier. He was the first designer to understand the value of designing for well-known actresses both onstage and off. He was also the first to create his own line of perfume, named Rosine, for his eldest daughter, and the first to open an interior design store, Atelier Martine, named for his second daughter but inspired by the Weiner Werkstätte. His innovations included the chemise, harem pants and pantaloons and the popular lampshade skirt. When he visited the United States in 1913, he found himself called the king of fashion and discovered the underside of modern fashion success: His lampshade skirt was being copied far and wide. Organized by Harold Koda and Andrew Bolton, who are curator in charge and curator of the Met’s , “Poiret: King of Fashion” conveys quite a bit of his complex genius and his contradictory relationship with modernity. It displays 50 garments on mannequins (by Beyond Design) whose ovoid faces and cryptic features evoke Brancusi and Modigliani. The silk backdrops, which are the work of Jean-Hugues de Chatillon, a French set designer who served as the exhibition’s creative consultant, accent the show’s spaciousness with indelibly Parisian vistas of leafy parks, chic theaters and luxurious drawing rooms. All told you may have the sensation of drifting through a series of extraordinarily beautiful fashion illustrations, an art that Poiret cultivated to his advantage. Poiret’s liberation of the female body was in part inspired by the gamine build and independent spirit of his wife and muse, Denise, whom he married in 1905. In other ways it was born of necessity. Although he was initiated into the couturier business between 1898 and 1903, working as a designer for Jacques Doucet and then the House of Worth, Poiret never trained in the exacting crafts of couture tailoring or dressmaking. His design ideas began with the flat, rectangle of the fabric itself, as did the Japanese kimonos and North African caftans he admired. They then evolved through draping, not tailoring, into garments with a minimum of seams that pretty much hung from the shoulders. Poiret drew from a broad range of sources. Early in the show there is a trio of nightgowns, based on the Classical Greek gown known as the chiton, that are precursors to the 1950s negligee and the early 21st-century socialite party dress. To one side of these are two white high-waisted dresses that hark back to the severe yet demure gowns of post-Revolution France, displayed with an Atelier Martine chair that has bubbly hand-painted fabric. Nearby is evidence of Poiret’s attraction to a more ornate form of non-Western dress: a gauzy harem outfit studded with enormous beads of turquoise celluloid that Denise might have worn to their most famous fete, “The Thousand and Second Night” costume party on June 24, 1911. But turn around and you will see a stark simplicity that may take you aback: a gown that resembles nothing so much as a 1960s abstract painting. Wrapped gracefully around a mannequin, it has no sleeves or collar to speak of, just four broad, alternating bands of stylishly darkened red and blue. “Poiret: King of Fashion” is at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, Fifth Avenue at 82nd Street, (212) 535-7710, through Aug. 5. Next Article in Arts (4 of 13) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. The Face; Shock of the Few CRITIC'S NOTEBOOK; The Reckoning: Ralph Rucci At F.I.T. The Low Life And High Life, Hand in Hand Metropolitan Museum of Art Next Article in Arts (4 of 13) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://movies2.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/movies/11late.html?ex=1336536000&en=08b42f416e1ef2fc&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	28 Weeks Later - Movies - Review - New York Times MOVIE REVIEW | '28 WEEKS LATER' MORE ON '28 Weeks Later' The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Emily Beecham in &#34;28 Weeks Later,&#34; directed by Juan Carlos Fresnadillo. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 Nothing satisfies the appetite for allegory quite like a movie about flesh-eating zombies. Somehow the genre, at least as practiced by its masters, has the capacity to illuminate some brute facts about the human condition and its contemporary dysfunctions. There are not many recent movies that match, for example, the social criticism undertaken by George Romero in his “Living Dead” cycle. Skip to next paragraph Anatomy of a Scene: '28 Weeks Later' Movie Minutes: '28 Weeks Later' A group of Londoners run through a tunnel as London is being firebombed in &#34;28 Weeks Later.&#34; and its new sequel, directed by Juan Carlos Fresnadillo, may not quite be in Mr. Romero’s league, but at their best they come close to his signature blend of grisly horror, emotional impact and biting satire. There is, of course, plenty of literal biting as well, since the virus-crazed creatures known as infecteds crave the flesh and blood of their erstwhile fellow citizens. And also their metaphorical flesh and blood. The first movie, set in the early days of a pandemic that nearly wiped out the population of Britain, followed a small band of strangers who came together to form a makeshift tribe. This time, after the first wave of the virus seems to have run its course, the focus is on families and comrades split apart and set against one another by paranoia, moral confusion and the endless conflict between the survival instinct and the call of duty. If “28 Days Later” was, in part, about the emergence of solidarity in the midst of crisis, “28 Weeks Later” is about the breakdown that occurs in what seems to be the aftermath. The DVD of Mr. Boyle’s film has two alternate endings, one slightly more comforting than the other. The hopeful conclusion (the one originally released in American theaters) turns out to be a slender thread leading to Mr. Fresnadillo’s more hectic and somewhat grimmer sequel. The story (written by Rowan Joffe, Mr. Fresnadillo, E. L. Lavigne and Jesus Olmo, with Mr. Boyle and his frequent collaborator, Alex Garland, on hand as executive producers) begins with a terrible failure of nerve. Fleeing a zombie attack, Don (a gaunt, appropriately anxious ) abandons his wife, Alice ( ), to a gruesome and apparently inevitable fate. A few months later, he is safe in the Green Zone, an island of security in London overseen by occupying American troops led by General Stone (Idris Elba). There, he is reunited with his children, Andy (Mackintosh Muggleton) and Tammy (Imogen Poots), who had been on a school trip to Spain during the initial outbreak. He lies to them about their mother’s fate, and his dishonesty is punished in due course. That bit about American soldiers patrolling the Green Zone — see what I mean about allegory? — may make “28 Weeks Later” sound heavy-handedly topical. But as in any good science fiction fable, the analogies it offers to contemporary reality are speculative rather than obvious. The initial benevolence of the occupation is clear enough: a shattered country needs to be put back together, its remaining population protected and reassured. It is only when things spin out of control that the inherent brutality of the situation becomes clear, but here again the movie poses intractable conundrums rather than scoring easy points. To the soldiers and the survivors alike, there are only bad choices, and doing what seems like the right thing — firebombing an open city or rescuing children from the bombs — can turn out to have horrendous consequences. Mr. Fresnadillo’s first movie, the Spanish-language thriller showed him to be a filmmaker with technical agility and a decidedly philosophical bent. Here the thinking is done on the run, as the collapse of order unfolds through scenes of panic and chaos. These are often too frenetically edited and murkily lighted to be truly scary, and the higher dose of gore — infecteds chopped up by helicopter blades; bodies exploding in blood as bullets fly into them — is not enough to increase the horror. The real terror comes at quieter moments, when aerial shots survey the echoing emptiness of London, or when Tammy and Andy sneak out of the Green Zone into the surrounding desolation. “London’s mine,” Andy exclaims, and the claustrophobic suspense of the film is occasionally leavened by a sense of adventure. The threat of death brings out noble impulses as well as selfish ones. Don’s cowardice stands in contrast to the selflessness of some of the American soldiers: Scarlet (Rose Byrne), a medical officer; Doyle (Jeremy Renner), a sniper whose conscience gets the better of him; and, more reluctantly, Flynn (Harold Perrineau), a chopper pilot with pictures of his kids taped above the windshield. “28 Weeks Later” is not for the faint of heart or the weak of stomach. It is brutal and almost exhaustingly terrifying, as any respectable zombie movie should be. It is also bracingly smart, both in its ideas and in its techniques. The last shot brought a burst of laughter at the screening I attended, a reaction that seemed to me both an acknowledgment of Mr. Fresnadillo’s wit and a defense against his merciless rigor. Anyway, I was glad the person next to me was laughing, rather than chewing through my neck. That level of horror will have to wait for the next sequel. “28 Weeks Later” is rated R (Under 17 requires accompanying parent or adult guardian). Rabid zombies feast on living flesh, which causes their potential victims to utter an occasional obscenity. Directed by Juan Carlos Fresnadillo; written by Rowan Joffe, Mr. Fresnadillo, E. L. Lavigne and Jesus Olmo; director of photography, Enrique Chediak; edited by Chris Gill; music by John Murphy; production designer, Mark Tildesley; produced by Enrique López-Lavigne, Andrew Macdonald and Allon Reich; released by Fox Atomic. Running time: 91 minutes. (Don), Rose Byrne (Scarlet), Jeremy Renner (Doyle), Harold Perrineau (Flynn), (Alice), Mackintosh Muggleton (Andy), Imogen Poots (Tammy), Idris Elba (General Stone) and Emily Beecham (Karen). Next Article in Movies (1 of 66) &#x00bb; Report a Problem Post (4.6 stars, 10 votes) Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. MOVIE SHOWTIMES AND TICKETS The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » Kickin' It Old Skool Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/arts/design/11mott.html	The Glittering A-List of Black History - New York Times Art Review | 'Let Your Motto Be Resistance' The Glittering A-List of Black History Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 “Let Your Motto Be Resistance: African American Portraits” at the International Center of Photography is a praise song in pictures, a shoutout to history. It’s also a fancy-dress inaugural party for the yet-to-be-built National Museum of African American History and Culture in Washington. As such, it is a little too fancy, too heavy on glitz, too short on grit. Still, what a party it is. Skip to next paragraph Benedict J. Fernandez/National Portrait Gallery The coffin of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. surrounded by mourners, including his children, in the show &#147;Let Your Motto Be Resistance.&#148; Estate of Linda McCartney/National Portrait Gallery Jimi Hendrix in 1967, one of the glamorous shots in the exhibition. The guest list includes an abbreviated Who’s Who of charismatic black statesmen, from Frederick Douglass to Malcolm X. In terms of entertainment, the event is beyond compare. and Bill (Bojangles) Robinson dance. Sarah Vaughan, Leontyne Price and Odetta share a stage, with Sidney Bechet on sax, and Hazel Scott, looking divine, at the keyboard. You’d look divine too if you had James VanDerZee behind the camera, or Berenice Abbott or Edward Weston or Addison N. Scurlock or any of the other great photographers responsible for the 100 vintage-print portraits here, all from the archives of the Smithsonian’s National Portrait Gallery. There are more artists and writers than usual at such an affair. You’ll recognize Horace Pippin, Edmonia Lewis and a beaming Lorraine Hansberry, by name if not by face. And a few people you may be meeting for the first time. Ernest Everett Just (1883-1941), a pioneering biologist who spent much of his career in Europe after he was stonewalled by the American scientific establishment. And Henry Highland Garnet (1815-1882), a Maryland slave who escaped north, became an abolitionist firebrand and delivered the phrase that gives the show its title: “Strike for your lives and liberties. Rather die freemen than live to be slaves. Let your motto be resistance! Resistance! Resistance!” As you look around the gallery, you can imagine some of the portraits reacting to his call. Elizabeth Catlett (in a wonderful likeness by Mariana Yampolsky), A. Philip Randolph, , Sojourner Truth and a young, blanket-swaddled James Baldwin seem to hear it and they’re on the alert. Mr. Garnet’s words aren’t party words. They are stark, preaching, move-now words. Which brings us back to the kind of party this is. It is, as I said, a housewarming in advance, and a buzz-builder, for a national African-American museum. When that museum goes up on the National Mall — 2015 is the target date — an essential aspect of American history will have its official monument. America and African America are one and the same. They’re inseparable. If this show can be taken as a preview of exhibitions to come, what will that history look like? Obviously, it will have glamour to burn, to judge by the lush, burnished portraits chosen by the guest curator, Deborah Willis, a professor of photography at Roland Hayes, who sang like an angel, looks like an angel in a 1934 light-and-shadow likeness attributed to Johan Hagemeyer. floats like a butterfly for Philippe Halsman’s Vogue-savvy eye. One after another, people glow or glower. Everyone is a star, an inspiration, a certified member of W. E. B. DuBois’s Talented Tenth. This Hall of Fame approach to cultural history delivers thrills, no question. But it also has a too easy, been-there air. The show feels like a throwback to another era, to a kind of exhibition that might have been mounted 20 years ago at the Studio Museum in Harlem , an institution that was until recently deeply invested in black pride, devoted to ethnic uplift. That devotion was effective in its time. Among many other things, it encouraged the upward mobility of what has since become an economically and politically powerful black middle class. But is uplift on the same terms, for the same ends, the right framework for viewing African-American, or any other American, history in 2007? Is Bright and Beautiful the model to follow? The show doesn’t entirely adhere to the model. Wall texts make clear that almost every person portrayed had to fight bitter odds for a seat in front of the camera. Each likeness was, consciously or by default, an effort to cast the African-American image, distorted by racism, in acceptably positive, mainstream terms. Three images, set by side by side at the start of the show, make life-and-death stakes clear. In a 1956 picture the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. — just a year after he had successfully used passive resistance as a tactical tool in Montgomery, Ala. — stands in the sunshine beside his smiling wife, Coretta, holding their infant daughter, Yolanda Denise, in his arms. In 1968 the same daughter, now in her teens, looks down at her murdered father in his coffin as her 5-year-old sister, Bernice, reacts with open-mouthed shock to the sight. A year later Stephen Shames catches the 25-year-old Angela Davis standing at a microphone, her mouth open to deliver a speech. Passive resistance is over; active resistance has begun. Significantly, some of the best things in the show are action shots: the Supremes — Diana, Mary and Flo — in a recording session; Stokely Carmichael and a white-suited Adam Clayton Powell Jr. cracking up at a joke; impassively hawking broadsides on the street; Marian Anderson singing as a skinny young These portraits are close to snapshots; their subjects look like regular people, Americans who happen to be black, in the middle of their accomplished lives. African America has, of course, a distinctive history, of profound pain and amazing grace. But the figures in these on-the-fly images are also part of a larger fabric: We the People. They are us; we are them. And with all our shared flaws and heroisms, we make up one mercurial, complicated, crazy quilt of a crew. Many of the young artists seen at the Studio Museum these days are intensely interested in complications, in giving “black” and “white” hard critical scrutiny, in consigning racial pride, along with all other essentialisms, to the shelf. Such artists resist the old, easy-chair version of history that this crowd-pleaser of a show comes too close to emulating. I hope the National Museum of African American History and Culture will resist it too, when it finally gets the home it should have had years ago at the heart of the nation. “Let Your Motto Be Resistance: African American Portraits” continues through Sept. 9 at the International Center of Photography, 1133 Avenue of the Americas, at 43rd Street; (212) 857-0000, icp.org. It opens at the National Portrait Gallery in Washington on Oct. 9. Next Article in Arts (5 of 13) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Gay Art: A Movement, or at Least a Moment A Young Man With an Eye, and Friends Up a Tree Unfamiliar Perspectives on Familiar Images International Center of Photography Next Article in Arts (5 of 13) &#x00bb; A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/pages/arts/index.html	Arts - New York Times Off the Beaten Beat Michael Falco for The New York Times Dan Deacon mans the keyboard at a loft party in Ridgewood, Queens, one of many sites that have emerged to replace the flashier Manhattan nightclub scene. Brooklyn in particular has become a major music nexus. Away from the bright lights of New York’s music scene, many artists are finding new performance spaces in strange, intimate locales. Harlem’s Cultural Anchor in a Sea of Ideas By FELICIA R. LEE As the Schomburg Center unveils its $11 million facelift, Harlem itself is also undergoing one of its periodic renaissances. Audio Slide Show: Fact vs. Fiction Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later' The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies By A. O. SCOTT “28 Weeks Later” is brutal and almost exhaustingly terrifying. It is also bracingly smart, both in its ideas and in its techniques. Art Review | 'Lincoln Kirstein' Kirstein’s Lust for Art and Artists This charming exhibition is about a few of the visual artists championed by Mr. Kirstein, who founded with Balanchine the New York City Ballet and American School of Ballet. Art Review | 'Poiret: King of Fashion' What to Wear to a Revolution The Metropolitan Museum of Art’s sumptuous survey of the designs of the French couturier Paul Poiret will transform your understanding of the origin of modern fashion. Nature, Nature, Burning Bright (High-Def Cameras Frame Thy Fearful Symmetry) Even the most selective library would be ruinously incomplete without the boxed set of “Planet Earth,” cable’s most highly rated natural history program of all time. A Loving Look at a Cinematic Tough Guy: Gangster, Hit Man, Gunslinger A retrospective of Lee Marvin’s work at the Film Society of Lincoln Center showcases an actor of diverse skills, but it’s his bad characters that remain the most memorable. Theater Review | 'Memory' From Wales, Tales of Berlin Then and Bethlehem Now If this flawed but compelling drama, part of the Brits Off Broadway festival, adds up to less than the sum of its parts, it is still engrossing throughout. Music Review | Arcade Fire From Little Clubs to Big Halls, an Indie Band Evolves The concert was the third of three sold-out New York City dates, and it proved that bigness suits this band. Compiled by LAWRENCE VAN GELDER Ken Burns agrees to add Hispanic veterans’ stories to his PBS film on World War II, Kim Cattrall and Daniel Radcliffe will star in a new film and more culture news. No Rain or Love, Till a Guy Promises Both Disillusioned Diva With Glimmers of Soul Melly Still on ‘Coram Boy’ You Go to a Fight, and a Boston Pops Concert Breaks Out Puffing Away That PG Rating 'Animal, Vegetable, Miracle,' by Barbara Kingsolver: Because It’s Good for You, That’s Why Art Review | International Fine Art Fair: Intimate Nooks Filled With Unexpected Treasures Dance Review | Urban Bush Women: Channeling Group Dynamics Fueled by the Power of Funk Music Review | Lisa Gerrard: The Somber Sound of Nondenominational Mysticism Music Review | Anat Cohen Quartet: A Musical World Traveler Who Likes to Mix Things Up Theater Review | 'Couples': Blissful and Benighted: Dispatches From the War of the Sexes Spare Times: For Children Movie Review | 'Casting About': The Cold Male Gaze Movie Review | 'Duck': A Sense of Purpose Takes Flight Movie Review | 'The Hip Hop Project': Beats With a Meaning Movie Review | 'The Salon': Cutting Hair and Cutting Remarks Movie Review | 'ShowBusiness': The Broad Scope of Broadway Movie Review | 'Provoked': Revisiting the True Story of a Battered Wife’s Revenge Movie Review | 'The Ex': Chasing an Old Flame, Taking No Prisoners Movie Review | 'Disappearances': Realism, Both Magic and Downright Mean Movie Review | 'Georgia Rule': Hey, California Girl, Don’t Mess With Grandma Inside Art: Guggenheim Foundation Takes Steps to Preserve Its Artistic Legacy The Glittering A-List of Black History 'Troublesome Young Men,' by Lynne Olson: In Churchill’s Rise to Power, a Rough Path of Rebellion 'The Joy of Drinking,' by Barbara Holland: Against Moderation Feeling the Burn, and the Triumph, After Some Gritty Labors Stomp, Sneeze, Grunt, Gasp and All That Body Language A Loving Look at a Cinematic Tough Guy: Gangster, Hit Man, Gunslinger From Little Clubs to Big Halls, an Indie Band Evolves Verizon Drops Pop Singer From Ads Nature, Nature, Burning Bright (High-Def Cameras Frame Thy Fearful Symmetry) From Wales, Tales of Berlin Then and Bethlehem Now from the past 7 days enter keyword or date e.g. April 21, 2001 Art Review | 'Let Your Motto Be Resistance' The Glittering A-List of Black History This exhibit is a little too fancy, too heavy on glitz, too short on grit. Still, what a party it is. By THE NEW YORK TIMES Reviews of exhibits by Myron Stout and Lisi Raskin, and of the show “Sugar Buzz.” Who uses YouTube? People like paul99503. Go to Blog » The Times's pop music critics discuss the latest albums and music events of the week. Download an MP3 Version Find your comprehensive television listings with this Longer editions of selected event listings in the New York area this week are now available online. The Week in Arts Where Are All the Black Swans? Speaking Love With Kurt and Lotte May 6 - May 12 FIND IT IN NYC MOST POPULAR - ARTS Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Music: Off the Beaten Beat Harlem&#8217;s Cultural Anchor in a Sea of Ideas Video Games: Finding Fellowship (Hairy Feet Optional) Film: A Loving Look at a Cinematic Tough Guy: Gangster, Hit Man, Gunslinger Movie Review | 'Georgia Rule': Hey, California Girl, Don&#8217;t Mess With Grandma Books of the Times: Because It&#8217;s Good for You, That&#8217;s Why Nature, Nature, Burning Bright (High-Def Cameras Frame Thy Fearful Symmetry) Art Review | 'Poiret: King of Fashion': What to Wear to a Revolution Lesley Blanch, 102, a Writer, Traveler and Adventure-Seeker, Dies Go to Complete List » Hush, Mama, Don't You Cry, A New Yellow Wiggle Will Sing Go to Complete List » Moore Blasts Bush Over Film - Trip Probe Cuba: Michael Moore Victim of Censorship Spielberg Joins Hollywood Chorus on Darfur Flea Ready for Summer, Teaching Kids Music Execs Silent As Rap Debate Rages Calif. Judge Hails Mel Gibson's Progress A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer What’s new on Broadway? Buy, sell or rent a home. Post a job online today! What’s new in technology? Get closer to film, music, art and plays. $3.15 a week. The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/arts/design/11poir.html	Poiret: King of Fashion - Art - Review - New York Times Art Review | 'Poiret: King of Fashion' What to Wear to a Revolution Anna Marie Kellen/Galliera, Musee de la Mode de la Ville de Paris Paul Poiret&#146;s 1905 R&#233;v&#233;rend Coat, embellished with Chinese roundels. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 “Poiret: King of Fashion,” the Metropolitan Museum of Art ’s sumptuous survey of the designs of the French couturier Paul Poiret (1879-1944), will transform your understanding of the origin of modern fashion. Its radiant hand-painted silk backdrops may also increase your appreciation of the art of set design; they magically create an immersive beauty out of almost nothing. Skip to next paragraph Man Ray Trust/Artists Rights Society (ARS)/ADAGP A 1923 Man Ray photograph of Peggy Guggenheim wearing a dress by Poiret. Poiret’s achievement is not as visible today as that of Coco Chanel, who built on some of his ideas and discarded others. His fashion house closed in 1929, and he spent his remaining years impoverished. But Poiret was for a while a revolutionary in revolutionary times and also a canny impresario. His radically streamlined, unstructured, often stridently colored clothes freed women from corsets while evoking exotic, non-Western cultures and a fierce disregard for social convention. He introduced these corset-free garments in 1906, the year before committed his decidedly uninhibited (and unstaid) “Demoiselles d’Avignon” to canvas. But with his love of the exotic, his brilliant use of color and pattern, and his penchant for simplified, almost rudimentary form, Poiret most resembles Poiret functioned as a kind of one-man cultural scene. He collected art, gave lavish costume parties and made astute use of the press while laying the groundwork for fashion design as a modern art and a modern business. His clients included , Nancy Cunard, Isadora Duncan, Colette and Helena Rubinstein. Man Ray photographed Peggy Guggenheim in a Poiret gown and turban. Edward Steichen’s first fashion photographs were taken of models in Poiret’s atelier. He was the first designer to understand the value of designing for well-known actresses both onstage and off. He was also the first to create his own line of perfume, named Rosine, for his eldest daughter, and the first to open an interior design store, Atelier Martine, named for his second daughter but inspired by the Weiner Werkstätte. His innovations included the chemise, harem pants and pantaloons and the popular lampshade skirt. When he visited the United States in 1913, he found himself called the king of fashion and discovered the underside of modern fashion success: His lampshade skirt was being copied far and wide. Organized by Harold Koda and Andrew Bolton, who are curator in charge and curator of the Met’s , “Poiret: King of Fashion” conveys quite a bit of his complex genius and his contradictory relationship with modernity. It displays 50 garments on mannequins (by Beyond Design) whose ovoid faces and cryptic features evoke Brancusi and Modigliani. The silk backdrops, which are the work of Jean-Hugues de Chatillon, a French set designer who served as the exhibition’s creative consultant, accent the show’s spaciousness with indelibly Parisian vistas of leafy parks, chic theaters and luxurious drawing rooms. All told you may have the sensation of drifting through a series of extraordinarily beautiful fashion illustrations, an art that Poiret cultivated to his advantage. Poiret’s liberation of the female body was in part inspired by the gamine build and independent spirit of his wife and muse, Denise, whom he married in 1905. In other ways it was born of necessity. Although he was initiated into the couturier business between 1898 and 1903, working as a designer for Jacques Doucet and then the House of Worth, Poiret never trained in the exacting crafts of couture tailoring or dressmaking. His design ideas began with the flat, rectangle of the fabric itself, as did the Japanese kimonos and North African caftans he admired. They then evolved through draping, not tailoring, into garments with a minimum of seams that pretty much hung from the shoulders. Poiret drew from a broad range of sources. Early in the show there is a trio of nightgowns, based on the Classical Greek gown known as the chiton, that are precursors to the 1950s negligee and the early 21st-century socialite party dress. To one side of these are two white high-waisted dresses that hark back to the severe yet demure gowns of post-Revolution France, displayed with an Atelier Martine chair that has bubbly hand-painted fabric. Nearby is evidence of Poiret’s attraction to a more ornate form of non-Western dress: a gauzy harem outfit studded with enormous beads of turquoise celluloid that Denise might have worn to their most famous fete, “The Thousand and Second Night” costume party on June 24, 1911. But turn around and you will see a stark simplicity that may take you aback: a gown that resembles nothing so much as a 1960s abstract painting. Wrapped gracefully around a mannequin, it has no sleeves or collar to speak of, just four broad, alternating bands of stylishly darkened red and blue. “Poiret: King of Fashion” is at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, Fifth Avenue at 82nd Street, (212) 535-7710, through Aug. 5. Next Article in Arts (4 of 13) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. The Face; Shock of the Few CRITIC'S NOTEBOOK; The Reckoning: Ralph Rucci At F.I.T. The Low Life And High Life, Hand in Hand Metropolitan Museum of Art Next Article in Arts (4 of 13) &#x00bb; A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/pages/arts/index.html?partner=rssnyt	Arts - New York Times Off the Beaten Beat Michael Falco for The New York Times Dan Deacon mans the keyboard at a loft party in Ridgewood, Queens, one of many sites that have emerged to replace the flashier Manhattan nightclub scene. Brooklyn in particular has become a major music nexus. Away from the bright lights of New York’s music scene, many artists are finding new performance spaces in strange, intimate locales. Harlem’s Cultural Anchor in a Sea of Ideas By FELICIA R. LEE As the Schomburg Center unveils its $11 million facelift, Harlem itself is also undergoing one of its periodic renaissances. Audio Slide Show: Fact vs. Fiction Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later' The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies By A. O. SCOTT “28 Weeks Later” is brutal and almost exhaustingly terrifying. It is also bracingly smart, both in its ideas and in its techniques. Art Review | 'Lincoln Kirstein' Kirstein’s Lust for Art and Artists This charming exhibition is about a few of the visual artists championed by Mr. Kirstein, who founded with Balanchine the New York City Ballet and American School of Ballet. Art Review | 'Poiret: King of Fashion' What to Wear to a Revolution The Metropolitan Museum of Art’s sumptuous survey of the designs of the French couturier Paul Poiret will transform your understanding of the origin of modern fashion. Nature, Nature, Burning Bright (High-Def Cameras Frame Thy Fearful Symmetry) Even the most selective library would be ruinously incomplete without the boxed set of “Planet Earth,” cable’s most highly rated natural history program of all time. A Loving Look at a Cinematic Tough Guy: Gangster, Hit Man, Gunslinger A retrospective of Lee Marvin’s work at the Film Society of Lincoln Center showcases an actor of diverse skills, but it’s his bad characters that remain the most memorable. Theater Review | 'Memory' From Wales, Tales of Berlin Then and Bethlehem Now If this flawed but compelling drama, part of the Brits Off Broadway festival, adds up to less than the sum of its parts, it is still engrossing throughout. Music Review | Arcade Fire From Little Clubs to Big Halls, an Indie Band Evolves The concert was the third of three sold-out New York City dates, and it proved that bigness suits this band. Compiled by LAWRENCE VAN GELDER Ken Burns agrees to add Hispanic veterans’ stories to his PBS film on World War II, Kim Cattrall and Daniel Radcliffe will star in a new film and more culture news. No Rain or Love, Till a Guy Promises Both Disillusioned Diva With Glimmers of Soul Melly Still on ‘Coram Boy’ You Go to a Fight, and a Boston Pops Concert Breaks Out Puffing Away That PG Rating 'Animal, Vegetable, Miracle,' by Barbara Kingsolver: Because It’s Good for You, That’s Why Art Review | International Fine Art Fair: Intimate Nooks Filled With Unexpected Treasures Dance Review | Urban Bush Women: Channeling Group Dynamics Fueled by the Power of Funk Music Review | Lisa Gerrard: The Somber Sound of Nondenominational Mysticism Music Review | Anat Cohen Quartet: A Musical World Traveler Who Likes to Mix Things Up Theater Review | 'Couples': Blissful and Benighted: Dispatches From the War of the Sexes Spare Times: For Children Movie Review | 'Casting About': The Cold Male Gaze Movie Review | 'Duck': A Sense of Purpose Takes Flight Movie Review | 'The Hip Hop Project': Beats With a Meaning Movie Review | 'The Salon': Cutting Hair and Cutting Remarks Movie Review | 'ShowBusiness': The Broad Scope of Broadway Movie Review | 'Provoked': Revisiting the True Story of a Battered Wife’s Revenge Movie Review | 'The Ex': Chasing an Old Flame, Taking No Prisoners Movie Review | 'Disappearances': Realism, Both Magic and Downright Mean Movie Review | 'Georgia Rule': Hey, California Girl, Don’t Mess With Grandma Inside Art: Guggenheim Foundation Takes Steps to Preserve Its Artistic Legacy The Glittering A-List of Black History 'Troublesome Young Men,' by Lynne Olson: In Churchill’s Rise to Power, a Rough Path of Rebellion 'The Joy of Drinking,' by Barbara Holland: Against Moderation Feeling the Burn, and the Triumph, After Some Gritty Labors Stomp, Sneeze, Grunt, Gasp and All That Body Language A Loving Look at a Cinematic Tough Guy: Gangster, Hit Man, Gunslinger From Little Clubs to Big Halls, an Indie Band Evolves Verizon Drops Pop Singer From Ads Nature, Nature, Burning Bright (High-Def Cameras Frame Thy Fearful Symmetry) From Wales, Tales of Berlin Then and Bethlehem Now from the past 7 days enter keyword or date e.g. April 21, 2001 Art Review | 'Let Your Motto Be Resistance' The Glittering A-List of Black History This exhibit is a little too fancy, too heavy on glitz, too short on grit. Still, what a party it is. By THE NEW YORK TIMES Reviews of exhibits by Myron Stout and Lisi Raskin, and of the show “Sugar Buzz.” Who uses YouTube? People like paul99503. Go to Blog » The Times's pop music critics discuss the latest albums and music events of the week. Download an MP3 Version Find your comprehensive television listings with this Longer editions of selected event listings in the New York area this week are now available online. The Week in Arts Where Are All the Black Swans? Speaking Love With Kurt and Lotte May 6 - May 12 FIND IT IN NYC MOST POPULAR - ARTS Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Music: Off the Beaten Beat Harlem&#8217;s Cultural Anchor in a Sea of Ideas Video Games: Finding Fellowship (Hairy Feet Optional) Film: A Loving Look at a Cinematic Tough Guy: Gangster, Hit Man, Gunslinger Movie Review | 'Georgia Rule': Hey, California Girl, Don&#8217;t Mess With Grandma Books of the Times: Because It&#8217;s Good for You, That&#8217;s Why Nature, Nature, Burning Bright (High-Def Cameras Frame Thy Fearful Symmetry) Art Review | 'Poiret: King of Fashion': What to Wear to a Revolution Lesley Blanch, 102, a Writer, Traveler and Adventure-Seeker, Dies Go to Complete List » Hush, Mama, Don't You Cry, A New Yellow Wiggle Will Sing Go to Complete List » Moore Blasts Bush Over Film - Trip Probe Cuba: Michael Moore Victim of Censorship Spielberg Joins Hollywood Chorus on Darfur Flea Ready for Summer, Teaching Kids Music Execs Silent As Rap Debate Rages Calif. Judge Hails Mel Gibson's Progress A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Jose Reyes Autographed Page Tell us your nursing story. Inspiration & lessons. Looking for a job? Get closer to film, music, art and plays. $3.15 a week. Continuous coverage of business news. Start your 30-day free trial of Times Reader today. The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/arts/design/11harl.html?ex=1336536000&en=de4176d49d104719&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Schomburg Center for Research in Black Culture - Harlem - New York Times Harlem’s Cultural Anchor in a Sea of Ideas Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 could almost see the ghosts among the new furniture and modern recessed lighting. It was a few days before the staff at the Schomburg Center for Research in Black Culture, at 135th Street and Boulevard in Harlem, finished hanging two exhibitions and stripping the paper off the doors at its bigger, brighter new entrance. Amid the sounds of hammers and drills, they prepared for tomorrow’s public celebration of the center’s two-year, $11 million renovation. Skip to next paragraph Ruby Washington/The New York Times A 1925 sign from the New York Public Library&#146;s Negro division. Ruby Washington/The New York Times The new facade at the Schomburg Center for Research in Black Culture. The Schomburg is as much a monument to an idea as it is a building. So those ghosts, workaday and luminous, inhabit a space of many incarnations, tracing its roots back to the 135th Street New York Public Library branch that opened there in 1905. Predominantly Jewish then, Harlem was mostly black by 1924. Over the years, Alex Haley researched “Roots” at the Schomburg; James Baldwin and both found it a refuge; a young honed his craft there. By the time it officially became the Schomburg in 1972, taking its name from Arturo Alfonso Schomburg, the Puerto Rican-born black bibliophile who donated his collection, it was a one-stop connection with the global black experience. Its wonders include a rare recording of a Marcus Garvey speech, documents signed by Toussaint L’Ouverture, a signed first edition of Phillis Wheatley’s poetry, daguerreotypes of African-Americans from the 1830s, Benjamin Banneker’s almanacs. Its exhibitions have tracked black migration and displayed the contents of Malcolm X’s pocket when he was gunned down at the Audubon Ballroom. “The center has increasingly become one of the cultural anchors of the greater Harlem community, one of the top three tourist destinations, along with the Apollo and the Studio Museum in Harlem ,” said Howard Dodson, the Schomburg director. “The kind of change that’s taking place in Harlem is of political, social and historical interest to the center, and we’ll be here to document it. We are not going anywhere.” As the Schomburg unveils its facelift, Harlem itself is also undergoing one of its periodic renaissances. There’s new real estate development, new stores and restaurants, new places to imbibe culture. The association with Harlem has been the constant for the Schomburg trove of more than five million items: art, manuscripts, films, photographs. The center has been a place for community meetings and for local politicians, for schoolchildren and eminent researchers like the historian John Hope Franklin. Thelma Golden, the director and chief curator of the Studio Museum, is among those who see the renovated Schomburg as an emblem of a Harlem at the top of its game. Hundreds of thousands of tourists pour into Harlem annually to shop in the stores on 125th Street, sit in the pews of the historic Abyssinian Baptist Church or revel in the serendipity of finding new cafes or dowager buildings. “The Schomburg stands as a bearer of the idea that our history and culture are important,” said Ms. Golden, who is African-American. “The renovation will reinvent the sense of the institution as living, breathing space. All the cultural institutions in Harlem are going through a period of incredible growth, and it’s not just about physical renovation.” A walk through Harlem makes vivid its embrace of many worlds. There are the tiny African braiding shops, mom-and-pop restaurants with an African or Caribbean flavor, as well as Citarella and Starbucks amid the cacophony of 125th Street, the area’s commercial spine. It is dotted with stores like Old Navy, as well as the Apollo and the Studio Museum. The streets are cleaner and safer than they have been in years. With its hilly topography and low-slung buildings framing the sky, these days Harlem is also a beehive of brownstone renovation and new construction. A few blocks from the Schomburg, condominiums are going up on either side of the street. Take a side street and you may glimpse decrepit apartment buildings or well-tended row houses shrouded in quiet. The new incarnation of the Schomburg Center, designed by the firm Dattner Architects, has more open spaces, light wood and glass, and is intended to be both more inviting and more distinctive than the old building. The center is part of the New York Public Library; the renovation was primarily financed by the city, with additional state support. The other day Mr. Dodson ticked off his plans for the center’s new resources, which include the latest technology. They include working with the Overtown community in Miami to develop an African diaspora heritage trail and helping officials in Liberia and South Africa to develop archives. Closer to home, the Schomburg is involved with the African Burial Ground project. In 1991 workers excavating the foundation for a new building uncovered human remains, which turned out to be from the site where historians say 15,000 slaves were buried from 1640 to 1795 on nearly seven acres near what is now City Hall Park and the Municipal Building. President Bush has proclaimed part of the space a national monument. On May 19 the papers donated by the family of Malcolm X will go on display at the Schomburg. Next Article in Arts (2 of 13) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. MUSEUM REVIEW; The Personal Evolution Of a Civil Rights Giant Malcolm X the Thinker, Brought Into Focus Black Migration, Both Slave And Free An Artist Talked and a World Listens Schomburg Center for Research in Black Culture Next Article in Arts (2 of 13) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/arts/design/11harl.html	Schomburg Center for Research in Black Culture - Harlem - New York Times Harlem’s Cultural Anchor in a Sea of Ideas Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 could almost see the ghosts among the new furniture and modern recessed lighting. It was a few days before the staff at the Schomburg Center for Research in Black Culture, at 135th Street and Boulevard in Harlem, finished hanging two exhibitions and stripping the paper off the doors at its bigger, brighter new entrance. Amid the sounds of hammers and drills, they prepared for tomorrow’s public celebration of the center’s two-year, $11 million renovation. Skip to next paragraph Ruby Washington/The New York Times A 1925 sign from the New York Public Library&#146;s Negro division. Ruby Washington/The New York Times The new facade at the Schomburg Center for Research in Black Culture. The Schomburg is as much a monument to an idea as it is a building. So those ghosts, workaday and luminous, inhabit a space of many incarnations, tracing its roots back to the 135th Street New York Public Library branch that opened there in 1905. Predominantly Jewish then, Harlem was mostly black by 1924. Over the years, Alex Haley researched “Roots” at the Schomburg; James Baldwin and both found it a refuge; a young honed his craft there. By the time it officially became the Schomburg in 1972, taking its name from Arturo Alfonso Schomburg, the Puerto Rican-born black bibliophile who donated his collection, it was a one-stop connection with the global black experience. Its wonders include a rare recording of a Marcus Garvey speech, documents signed by Toussaint L’Ouverture, a signed first edition of Phillis Wheatley’s poetry, daguerreotypes of African-Americans from the 1830s, Benjamin Banneker’s almanacs. Its exhibitions have tracked black migration and displayed the contents of Malcolm X’s pocket when he was gunned down at the Audubon Ballroom. “The center has increasingly become one of the cultural anchors of the greater Harlem community, one of the top three tourist destinations, along with the Apollo and the Studio Museum in Harlem ,” said Howard Dodson, the Schomburg director. “The kind of change that’s taking place in Harlem is of political, social and historical interest to the center, and we’ll be here to document it. We are not going anywhere.” As the Schomburg unveils its facelift, Harlem itself is also undergoing one of its periodic renaissances. There’s new real estate development, new stores and restaurants, new places to imbibe culture. The association with Harlem has been the constant for the Schomburg trove of more than five million items: art, manuscripts, films, photographs. The center has been a place for community meetings and for local politicians, for schoolchildren and eminent researchers like the historian John Hope Franklin. Thelma Golden, the director and chief curator of the Studio Museum, is among those who see the renovated Schomburg as an emblem of a Harlem at the top of its game. Hundreds of thousands of tourists pour into Harlem annually to shop in the stores on 125th Street, sit in the pews of the historic Abyssinian Baptist Church or revel in the serendipity of finding new cafes or dowager buildings. “The Schomburg stands as a bearer of the idea that our history and culture are important,” said Ms. Golden, who is African-American. “The renovation will reinvent the sense of the institution as living, breathing space. All the cultural institutions in Harlem are going through a period of incredible growth, and it’s not just about physical renovation.” A walk through Harlem makes vivid its embrace of many worlds. There are the tiny African braiding shops, mom-and-pop restaurants with an African or Caribbean flavor, as well as Citarella and Starbucks amid the cacophony of 125th Street, the area’s commercial spine. It is dotted with stores like Old Navy, as well as the Apollo and the Studio Museum. The streets are cleaner and safer than they have been in years. With its hilly topography and low-slung buildings framing the sky, these days Harlem is also a beehive of brownstone renovation and new construction. A few blocks from the Schomburg, condominiums are going up on either side of the street. Take a side street and you may glimpse decrepit apartment buildings or well-tended row houses shrouded in quiet. The new incarnation of the Schomburg Center, designed by the firm Dattner Architects, has more open spaces, light wood and glass, and is intended to be both more inviting and more distinctive than the old building. The center is part of the New York Public Library; the renovation was primarily financed by the city, with additional state support. The other day Mr. Dodson ticked off his plans for the center’s new resources, which include the latest technology. They include working with the Overtown community in Miami to develop an African diaspora heritage trail and helping officials in Liberia and South Africa to develop archives. Closer to home, the Schomburg is involved with the African Burial Ground project. In 1991 workers excavating the foundation for a new building uncovered human remains, which turned out to be from the site where historians say 15,000 slaves were buried from 1640 to 1795 on nearly seven acres near what is now City Hall Park and the Municipal Building. President Bush has proclaimed part of the space a national monument. On May 19 the papers donated by the family of Malcolm X will go on display at the Schomburg. Next Article in Arts (2 of 13) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. MUSEUM REVIEW; The Personal Evolution Of a Civil Rights Giant Malcolm X the Thinker, Brought Into Focus Black Migration, Both Slave And Free An Artist Talked and a World Listens Schomburg Center for Research in Black Culture Next Article in Arts (2 of 13) &#x00bb; A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Hair Pulling Feat 1925 Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/12/arts/music/12OPER.html?ex=1336622400&en=41fe0ed15d8f8e59&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Washington National Opera - simulcast - schools - universities - New York Times Live From Washington, Opera for the College Crowd Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 12, 2007 Students wandering into some college auditoriums on Sept. 23 may receive a few unexpected lessons on subjects like the nature of Bohemian love, consumptive heroines and life in a garret. The Washington National Opera said it planned to simulcast a live matinee performance of Puccini’s “Bohème” to 14 college campuses and 2 high schools. The feed to the institutions will piggyback on an outdoor broadcast at the Washington Monument, an annual event begun two years ago. led the way with regular live and recorded broadcasts. But the has taken a different tack. The Met sends its broadcasts to movie theaters around the country, which charge $18 a ticket. The campus simulcasts will be free. Two local movie theaters will also have free showings. “We are convinced that it’s very important to try to make opera more accessible,” said , the Washington Opera’s president. “We’ve got to reach out and try to find young opera lovers.” He said the other main goal was to spark interest among donors and foundations to contribute money to the opera company. “There is a fund-raising effort behind this,” said Mr. Feinberg, who from 2001 to 2004 was the special master of the Sept. 11 Victim Compensation Fund. “Whether it will pay off, I do not know.” The overall cost of the simulcast is about $500,000, which will be provided by extra fund-raising, and will cover the expenses of the colleges and schools in showing the opera. A similar simulcast, of a new production of Verdi’s “Rigoletto,” is planned for the spring. , the Washington Opera’s general director, praised the Met general manager, Peter Gelb, for introducing the widespread simulcasts. But they took pains to set their own project apart, noting that their showings were free and aimed at attracting young people to opera. “We are so happy to make this simulcast free not only to our university partners across the country, but also to local students and anyone who wants a taste of top-quality opera,” Mr. Domingo said in a statement released by his assistant. The company named the institutions involved as Bryn Mawr, Princeton, Tulane, , Temple, Rice, the University of North Carolina , Union College, Brockton High School in Massachusetts and Lowell High School in San Francisco. Separately, the Washington Opera said it had an agreement with XM Satellite Radio to transmit old performances over a 23-week period, although XM said the contract had yet to be signed. XM’s rival, Sirius, broadcasts Met performances. Next Article in Arts (4 of 14) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. MUSIC; The End of The Great Big American Voice MUSIC; You'll Never Guess Who's Playing At the D.M.V. MUSIC; The Juilliard Effect: Ten Years Later Bronx Journal; So Class, How Do You Make a Cello? Fatten Up a Violin Next Article in Arts (4 of 14) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Bush in Accord With Democrats on Trade Deals President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds Role of F.B.I. Informer Draws Praise and Questions On Carrier in Gulf, Cheney Issues Warning to Iran Romney Works to Put Skeptics' Doubts to Rest Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/12/arts/music/12OPER.html?ex=1336622400&en=41fe0ed15d8f8e59&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Washington National Opera - simulcast - schools - universities - New York Times Live From Washington, Opera for the College Crowd Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 12, 2007 Students wandering into some college auditoriums on Sept. 23 may receive a few unexpected lessons on subjects like the nature of Bohemian love, consumptive heroines and life in a garret. The Washington National Opera said it planned to simulcast a live matinee performance of Puccini’s “Bohème” to 14 college campuses and 2 high schools. The feed to the institutions will piggyback on an outdoor broadcast at the Washington Monument, an annual event begun two years ago. led the way with regular live and recorded broadcasts. But the has taken a different tack. The Met sends its broadcasts to movie theaters around the country, which charge $18 a ticket. The campus simulcasts will be free. Two local movie theaters will also have free showings. “We are convinced that it’s very important to try to make opera more accessible,” said , the Washington Opera’s president. “We’ve got to reach out and try to find young opera lovers.” He said the other main goal was to spark interest among donors and foundations to contribute money to the opera company. “There is a fund-raising effort behind this,” said Mr. Feinberg, who from 2001 to 2004 was the special master of the Sept. 11 Victim Compensation Fund. “Whether it will pay off, I do not know.” The overall cost of the simulcast is about $500,000, which will be provided by extra fund-raising, and will cover the expenses of the colleges and schools in showing the opera. A similar simulcast, of a new production of Verdi’s “Rigoletto,” is planned for the spring. , the Washington Opera’s general director, praised the Met general manager, Peter Gelb, for introducing the widespread simulcasts. But they took pains to set their own project apart, noting that their showings were free and aimed at attracting young people to opera. “We are so happy to make this simulcast free not only to our university partners across the country, but also to local students and anyone who wants a taste of top-quality opera,” Mr. Domingo said in a statement released by his assistant. The company named the institutions involved as Bryn Mawr, Princeton, Tulane, , Temple, Rice, the University of North Carolina , Union College, Brockton High School in Massachusetts and Lowell High School in San Francisco. Separately, the Washington Opera said it had an agreement with XM Satellite Radio to transmit old performances over a 23-week period, although XM said the contract had yet to be signed. XM’s rival, Sirius, broadcasts Met performances. Next Article in Arts (4 of 14) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. MUSIC; The End of The Great Big American Voice MUSIC; You'll Never Guess Who's Playing At the D.M.V. MUSIC; The Juilliard Effect: Ten Years Later Bronx Journal; So Class, How Do You Make a Cello? Fatten Up a Violin Next Article in Arts (4 of 14) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Bush in Accord With Democrats on Trade Deals President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds Role of F.B.I. Informer Draws Praise and Questions On Carrier in Gulf, Cheney Issues Warning to Iran Romney Works to Put Skeptics' Doubts to Rest Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://theater2.nytimes.com/2007/05/12/theater/reviews/12stai.html?ex=1336622400&en=47acb7a7c3b939c7&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Stairway to Paradise - Encores! - Theater - Review - New York Times THEATER REVIEW | STAIRWAY TO PARADISE MORE ON 'Stairway to Paradise' Mining a Rich Vein of Sequins in Revues Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 12, 2007 Encores! has built its own jukebox, and it gleams like gold. “Stairway to Paradise,” which runs through Monday at City Center, is an anthology of truly olden oldies, songs the theatergoing masses heard in musical revues in the first half of the 20th century. And yes, I know, it all sounds too quaint and camp and, well, dusty, for words. Skip to next paragraph Sara Krulwich/The New York Times Kevin Chamberlin and Kristin Chenoweth performing at City Center. Sara Krulwich/The New York Times Kristin Chenoweth, with tambourine, and Capathia Jenkins, right foreground, in the Encores! production of &#147;Stairway to Paradise&#148; at City Center. Sara Krulwich/The New York Times Kendrick Jones in &#147;Stairway to Paradise,&#148; which offers songs from 50 years of musical revues. But the radiant surprise of “Stairway to Paradise,” which was conceived by Jack Viertel (the artistic director of Encores!) and directed by Jerry Zaks, is how much fresher it feels than contemporary Broadway blockbusters that use more recent pop songbooks. “Mamma Mia!” (the Abba musical) and “Jersey Boys” (the Four Seasons story) — the two mighty survivors of the jukebox trend — coast on happy associations for audiences who grew up necking, dancing and driving to such music. With Top 40 numbers strung together in skeletal, self-conscious plots, these are shows that wink through sweet-stinging tears, while whispering: “Ah, weren’t we innocent then? Weren’t we sexy?” Since it seems unlikely that anyone who sees “Stairway to Paradise” was around when a number like “The Maiden With the Dreamy Eyes” was first performed in 1901, much of this show could be nostalgic in only an abstract way. But pure nostalgia has never been what the Encores! series of concert musicals is about. At their best, these shows capture a strong whiff of the original appeal of vintage works, minus pinching and distorting quotation marks. And Mr. Zaks has steered a top-of-the-line cast — including , Kevin Chamberlin, Christopher Fitzgerald, Ruthie Henshall and Capathia Jenkins — into personally stamped performances that dispel any lingering scent of mothballs. From its besequined and beplumed early years (the age of the Ziegfeld Follies) to its street-smart twilight (the wisecracking New Faces series), the Broadway revue format celebrated by “Stairway to Paradise” was above all a showcase for distinctive talents, even if talent, in some cases, meant nothing more than the ability to look fabulous wearing a four-story headdress. So “Stairway” pays tribute to the long-stemmed beauties who once slinked across palatial stages like animated floral arrangements, to comic songsters who made their ethnicity a clown’s costume and to velvet-voiced canaries with bared ivory shoulders. But there’s nothing of the slapdash scrapbook about “Stairway.” It is a very careful assemblage, in roughly chronological order, that creates a portrait of what made America (or its sophisticated city cousins, in any case) laugh, dance, swoon and occasionally cry over a period of 50 years. Without pressing the point, the show charts an eloquent timeline between phases of giddy escapism and socially conscious sobriety in a period that encompassed a depression and two world wars. This means that the gilded chameleon Ms. Chenoweth becomes both a self-infatuated trilling soprano of Victor Herbert arias and a saltier chorus girl, who, though dressed like a Ziegfeld chorine-cum-show-horse, realizes that she’s tired of pure fluff. (Hence a deliciously out-of-context performance of “Sing Me a Song of Social Significance,” from the 1937 pro-union revue “Pins and Needles.”) Mr. Chamberlin, in fine form, pulls off a nifty impression of , while Ms. Chenoweth impersonates impersonating an American Indian, as Mr. Fitzgerald does Beatrice Lillie doing a shameless cartoon of a Japanese geisha. (Since ethnic humor doesn’t have the wholesome reputation it once did, quotation marks inserted here, but gently.) Torch songs, love duets, Army numbers (for both world wars, by ), ballads and double-entendre scorchers: they’re all on tap here, some familiar (Rodgers and Hart’s “Manhattan,” Schwartz and Dietz’s “Dancing in the Dark”) and some among the greatest songs you’ve never heard (a scrumptious paean to hell as a vacation paradise, Berlin’s “Pack Up Your Sins and Go to the Devil,” and a suburban housewife’s lament of disenchantment from 1952’s “Guess Who I Saw Today”). Precision, wit and polish are evident in every note, step and sequin. There’s not a routine — including a couple of sublimely silly sketches — that is merely tossed off. The design team, which includes John Lee Beatty (scenic consultant) and William Ivey Long (costumes), conveys a lush, eye-filling sense of period that never becomes a straitjacket. The orchestra, conducted by Rob Berman, and the impeccably arranged vocal harmonies provide the most savory ear candy in town, while Warren Carlyle’s choreography gracefully tips its top hat to the urbane agility of Fred and Adele Astaire, as well as to the processional undulations of statuesque professional beauties. Much of the appeal of the old revues was built on the appreciation of sui generis talents: a Brice, a Durante, a Libby Holman, an . There’s little room for such stylish idiosyncrasies in today’s big Broadway concept musicals, where performers are often asked to be cyborgs in theme park rides or human puppets. You can thus feel the pleasure rush that the stars of “Stairway” derive from claiming elegant specialty numbers as their own, using muscles that have probably been inactive for a while. So we have Ms. Jenkins slyly peddling (instead of overselling) the wicked sauciness of Eubie Blake’s “My Handy Man Ain’t Handy No More” and bringing a resonant stillness to “Supper Time,” Irving Berlin’s song about a racial lynching. Ms. Henshall burns a torch with appropriately cool heat in ballads by Blake and , while Mr. Fitzgerald demonstrates a disarming way with a marinara-sauce-accent in an Italian novelty number. Then there’s Kendrick Jones, the most exquisitely expressive young tap dancer since first wowed New York. When Mr. Jones weaves his way through a line of men dressed as soldiers, who are singing a swirling chorale by Harold Rome about returning from war, his feet tap an annotation to the lyrics with a grace that seems both casual and exacting. Mr. Jones is channeling a venerable tradition in popular entertainment. But he’ s translating it into a transcendent personal language. Something old and something new coexist, not only compatibly but also gloriously. That kind of rejuvenation beats plain old nostalgia any day. 50 Years of Revue in Review Music, lyrics and sketches by Nora Bayes, , Eubie Blake, Henry Blossom, Elisse Boyd, Bob Cole, , B. G. DeSylva, Howard Dietz, , Leo Edwards, Dorothy Fields, , Jay Gorney, Murray Grand, , E. Y. Harburg, Lorenz Hart, Victor Herbert, J. W. Johnson, , Jean Kerr, Walter Kerr, Duke Leonard, Jimmy McHugh, Blanche Merrill, Ed G. Nelson, Jack Norworth, Harry Pease, Andy Razaf, , Harold Rome, Arthur Schwartz, Paul Gerard Smith, and P. G. Wodehouse; directed by Jerry Zaks; guest music director, vocal and dance arranger, Rob Berman; conceived by Jack Viertel; set consultation by John Lee Beatty; sound by Tom Morse; costume consultation by William Ivey Long; lighting by Paul Gallo; orchestrations, Jonathan Tunick; music coordinator, Seymour Red Press; company manager, Michael Zande; production stage manager, Rolt Smith; choreography by Warren Carlyle. Presented by New York City Center EncoresifiArlene Shuler, president and chief executive; Mark Litvin, senior vice president and managing director; Mr. Viertel, artistic director; Paul Gemignani, music director. At City Center, 131 West 55th Street, Manhattan; (212) 581-1212. Through Monday. Running time: 2 hours 20 minutes. , Kevin Chamberlin, Christopher Fitzgerald, Jenn Gambatese, Michael Gruber, Shonn Wiley, J. Mark McVey, Holly Cruikshank, Kendrick Jones, Capathia Jenkins and Ruthie Henshall. Next Article in Theater (1 of 35) &#x00bb; Report a Problem Post (3.6 stars, 5 votes) Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. Chosen by David Bowie, Shows That He&#8217;d Attend Don't Trust Your Ears: This Play Is Not a Musical Line Up, Young Hopefuls (And Really, Be Young) Kitty Carlisle Hart, a New York Blend of Actress, Singer and Arts Advocate, Dies at 96 110 in the Shade 25th Annual Putnam C... Beauty and the Beast The Coast of Utopia ... The Coast of Utopia ... The Coast of Utopia ... A Moon for the Misbe... The Phantom of the O... The Year of Magical ... The Awesome 80s Prom Bad Blood - Malasang... Beauty on the Vine The Big Voice: God o... Bill W. and Dr. Bob Blue Man Group: Tube... Boys Just Wanna Have... Brits Off Broadway: ... Brits Off Broadway: ... Cronica de Una Muert... Don't Quit Your Nigh... I Love You, You're P... INTAR: Daughter of a... A Jew Grows in Brook... La Casa de Bernarda ... Make Me a Song: The ... Momma's Boyz (Los Ne... Murdered by the Mob The President and He... Tony n' Tina's Weddi... Two Gentlemen of Ver... 110 in the Shade Beauty on the Vine The Big Voice: God o... The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Bush in Accord With Democrats on Trade Deals President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds Role of F.B.I. Informer Draws Praise and Questions On Carrier in Gulf, Cheney Issues Warning to Iran Romney Works to Put Skeptics' Doubts to Rest Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics Forever Fab Beatles Commemorative N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://theater2.nytimes.com/2007/05/12/theater/reviews/12stai.html?ex=1336622400&en=47acb7a7c3b939c7&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Stairway to Paradise - Encores! - Theater - Review - New York Times THEATER REVIEW | STAIRWAY TO PARADISE MORE ON 'Stairway to Paradise' Mining a Rich Vein of Sequins in Revues Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 12, 2007 Encores! has built its own jukebox, and it gleams like gold. “Stairway to Paradise,” which runs through Monday at City Center, is an anthology of truly olden oldies, songs the theatergoing masses heard in musical revues in the first half of the 20th century. And yes, I know, it all sounds too quaint and camp and, well, dusty, for words. Skip to next paragraph Sara Krulwich/The New York Times Kevin Chamberlin and Kristin Chenoweth performing at City Center. Sara Krulwich/The New York Times Kristin Chenoweth, with tambourine, and Capathia Jenkins, right foreground, in the Encores! production of &#147;Stairway to Paradise&#148; at City Center. Sara Krulwich/The New York Times Kendrick Jones in &#147;Stairway to Paradise,&#148; which offers songs from 50 years of musical revues. But the radiant surprise of “Stairway to Paradise,” which was conceived by Jack Viertel (the artistic director of Encores!) and directed by Jerry Zaks, is how much fresher it feels than contemporary Broadway blockbusters that use more recent pop songbooks. “Mamma Mia!” (the Abba musical) and “Jersey Boys” (the Four Seasons story) — the two mighty survivors of the jukebox trend — coast on happy associations for audiences who grew up necking, dancing and driving to such music. With Top 40 numbers strung together in skeletal, self-conscious plots, these are shows that wink through sweet-stinging tears, while whispering: “Ah, weren’t we innocent then? Weren’t we sexy?” Since it seems unlikely that anyone who sees “Stairway to Paradise” was around when a number like “The Maiden With the Dreamy Eyes” was first performed in 1901, much of this show could be nostalgic in only an abstract way. But pure nostalgia has never been what the Encores! series of concert musicals is about. At their best, these shows capture a strong whiff of the original appeal of vintage works, minus pinching and distorting quotation marks. And Mr. Zaks has steered a top-of-the-line cast — including , Kevin Chamberlin, Christopher Fitzgerald, Ruthie Henshall and Capathia Jenkins — into personally stamped performances that dispel any lingering scent of mothballs. From its besequined and beplumed early years (the age of the Ziegfeld Follies) to its street-smart twilight (the wisecracking New Faces series), the Broadway revue format celebrated by “Stairway to Paradise” was above all a showcase for distinctive talents, even if talent, in some cases, meant nothing more than the ability to look fabulous wearing a four-story headdress. So “Stairway” pays tribute to the long-stemmed beauties who once slinked across palatial stages like animated floral arrangements, to comic songsters who made their ethnicity a clown’s costume and to velvet-voiced canaries with bared ivory shoulders. But there’s nothing of the slapdash scrapbook about “Stairway.” It is a very careful assemblage, in roughly chronological order, that creates a portrait of what made America (or its sophisticated city cousins, in any case) laugh, dance, swoon and occasionally cry over a period of 50 years. Without pressing the point, the show charts an eloquent timeline between phases of giddy escapism and socially conscious sobriety in a period that encompassed a depression and two world wars. This means that the gilded chameleon Ms. Chenoweth becomes both a self-infatuated trilling soprano of Victor Herbert arias and a saltier chorus girl, who, though dressed like a Ziegfeld chorine-cum-show-horse, realizes that she’s tired of pure fluff. (Hence a deliciously out-of-context performance of “Sing Me a Song of Social Significance,” from the 1937 pro-union revue “Pins and Needles.”) Mr. Chamberlin, in fine form, pulls off a nifty impression of , while Ms. Chenoweth impersonates impersonating an American Indian, as Mr. Fitzgerald does Beatrice Lillie doing a shameless cartoon of a Japanese geisha. (Since ethnic humor doesn’t have the wholesome reputation it once did, quotation marks inserted here, but gently.) Torch songs, love duets, Army numbers (for both world wars, by ), ballads and double-entendre scorchers: they’re all on tap here, some familiar (Rodgers and Hart’s “Manhattan,” Schwartz and Dietz’s “Dancing in the Dark”) and some among the greatest songs you’ve never heard (a scrumptious paean to hell as a vacation paradise, Berlin’s “Pack Up Your Sins and Go to the Devil,” and a suburban housewife’s lament of disenchantment from 1952’s “Guess Who I Saw Today”). Precision, wit and polish are evident in every note, step and sequin. There’s not a routine — including a couple of sublimely silly sketches — that is merely tossed off. The design team, which includes John Lee Beatty (scenic consultant) and William Ivey Long (costumes), conveys a lush, eye-filling sense of period that never becomes a straitjacket. The orchestra, conducted by Rob Berman, and the impeccably arranged vocal harmonies provide the most savory ear candy in town, while Warren Carlyle’s choreography gracefully tips its top hat to the urbane agility of Fred and Adele Astaire, as well as to the processional undulations of statuesque professional beauties. Much of the appeal of the old revues was built on the appreciation of sui generis talents: a Brice, a Durante, a Libby Holman, an . There’s little room for such stylish idiosyncrasies in today’s big Broadway concept musicals, where performers are often asked to be cyborgs in theme park rides or human puppets. You can thus feel the pleasure rush that the stars of “Stairway” derive from claiming elegant specialty numbers as their own, using muscles that have probably been inactive for a while. So we have Ms. Jenkins slyly peddling (instead of overselling) the wicked sauciness of Eubie Blake’s “My Handy Man Ain’t Handy No More” and bringing a resonant stillness to “Supper Time,” Irving Berlin’s song about a racial lynching. Ms. Henshall burns a torch with appropriately cool heat in ballads by Blake and , while Mr. Fitzgerald demonstrates a disarming way with a marinara-sauce-accent in an Italian novelty number. Then there’s Kendrick Jones, the most exquisitely expressive young tap dancer since first wowed New York. When Mr. Jones weaves his way through a line of men dressed as soldiers, who are singing a swirling chorale by Harold Rome about returning from war, his feet tap an annotation to the lyrics with a grace that seems both casual and exacting. Mr. Jones is channeling a venerable tradition in popular entertainment. But he’ s translating it into a transcendent personal language. Something old and something new coexist, not only compatibly but also gloriously. That kind of rejuvenation beats plain old nostalgia any day. 50 Years of Revue in Review Music, lyrics and sketches by Nora Bayes, , Eubie Blake, Henry Blossom, Elisse Boyd, Bob Cole, , B. G. DeSylva, Howard Dietz, , Leo Edwards, Dorothy Fields, , Jay Gorney, Murray Grand, , E. Y. Harburg, Lorenz Hart, Victor Herbert, J. W. Johnson, , Jean Kerr, Walter Kerr, Duke Leonard, Jimmy McHugh, Blanche Merrill, Ed G. Nelson, Jack Norworth, Harry Pease, Andy Razaf, , Harold Rome, Arthur Schwartz, Paul Gerard Smith, and P. G. Wodehouse; directed by Jerry Zaks; guest music director, vocal and dance arranger, Rob Berman; conceived by Jack Viertel; set consultation by John Lee Beatty; sound by Tom Morse; costume consultation by William Ivey Long; lighting by Paul Gallo; orchestrations, Jonathan Tunick; music coordinator, Seymour Red Press; company manager, Michael Zande; production stage manager, Rolt Smith; choreography by Warren Carlyle. Presented by New York City Center EncoresifiArlene Shuler, president and chief executive; Mark Litvin, senior vice president and managing director; Mr. Viertel, artistic director; Paul Gemignani, music director. At City Center, 131 West 55th Street, Manhattan; (212) 581-1212. Through Monday. Running time: 2 hours 20 minutes. , Kevin Chamberlin, Christopher Fitzgerald, Jenn Gambatese, Michael Gruber, Shonn Wiley, J. Mark McVey, Holly Cruikshank, Kendrick Jones, Capathia Jenkins and Ruthie Henshall. Next Article in Theater (1 of 35) &#x00bb; Report a Problem Post (3.6 stars, 5 votes) Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. Chosen by David Bowie, Shows That He&#8217;d Attend Don't Trust Your Ears: This Play Is Not a Musical Line Up, Young Hopefuls (And Really, Be Young) Kitty Carlisle Hart, a New York Blend of Actress, Singer and Arts Advocate, Dies at 96 110 in the Shade 25th Annual Putnam C... Beauty and the Beast The Coast of Utopia ... The Coast of Utopia ... The Coast of Utopia ... A Moon for the Misbe... The Phantom of the O... The Year of Magical ... The Awesome 80s Prom Bad Blood - Malasang... Beauty on the Vine The Big Voice: God o... Bill W. and Dr. Bob Blue Man Group: Tube... Boys Just Wanna Have... Brits Off Broadway: ... Brits Off Broadway: ... Cronica de Una Muert... Don't Quit Your Nigh... I Love You, You're P... INTAR: Daughter of a... A Jew Grows in Brook... La Casa de Bernarda ... Make Me a Song: The ... Momma's Boyz (Los Ne... Murdered by the Mob The President and He... Tony n' Tina's Weddi... Two Gentlemen of Ver... 110 in the Shade Beauty on the Vine The Big Voice: God o... The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Bush in Accord With Democrats on Trade Deals President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds Role of F.B.I. Informer Draws Praise and Questions On Carrier in Gulf, Cheney Issues Warning to Iran Romney Works to Put Skeptics' Doubts to Rest Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics Forever Fab Beatles Commemorative N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/12/arts/design/12aphr.html	J. Paul Getty Museum - Antiquities - New York Times Getty Moves Closer to Returning an Ancient Statue to Italy Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 12, 2007 LOS ANGELES, May 11 — The J. Paul Getty Museum inched a step closer to relinquishing ownership of one of its most prized artifacts, a 2,400-year-old statue of a goddess claimed by Italy, at a conference of international experts to discuss the artifact this week, its director said. Skip to next paragraph The statue at the center of a dispute between the J. Paul Getty Museum and the Italian government. The Getty has not reached a formal conclusion based on the conference, which was convened at the museum on Wednesday and was closed to the public. But museum officials and some of the experts who attended said their discussions buttressed what the museum says are its own suspicions that the statue, acquired by the Getty in 1988, might have been illegally excavated in southern Italy. “There was no dramatic single conclusion, no eureka moment, but it is certainly helping us narrow down the focus,” Michael Brand, the museum’s director, said in an interview. “It would be fair to say that most of the discussion focused on Sicily.” The statue’s precise provenance, like that of many antiquities, is unknown. But the Italian government asserts that it was looted in recent decades, and Mr. Brand said the Getty’s own investigation into its acquisition had revealed “problems.” The museum offered to relinquish title to the statue in November, when negotiations with Italy over the statue and 51 other artifacts broke down. It said it would study the disputed object for a year before making a final decision. At the time, the museum also unilaterally decided to return 26 of the objects. If the Getty turned up persuasive evidence that the statue came from a different archaeological source country, like Libya, or that it had been found and removed from Italy before 1939, when a ban was imposed on such exports, that could furnish a justification for keeping it. But so far no such clear evidence has emerged, Mr. Brand said. He said: “We intend to resolve this whole matter within the next six months, and we will. At some point our board of trustees has to agree to take it out of the public trust and possibly give it to someone else. We should do that very carefully.” The dispute has been part of a painful process of self-examination at an institution rocked by other scandals and disputes in the last decade. The Getty’s former antiquities curator, Marion True, remains on trial in Italy on charges of conspiring to acquire looted objects for the museum. An investigator testified at the trial last year that the goddess had been exported after an illegal excavation in Morgantina in central Sicily, at one time a richly developed part of the Greek empire. Malcolm Bell III, an archaeologist at the who attended Wednesday’s conference, said that there was so far no conclusive evidence that the statue came from Morgantina, where he conducts research, but added, “I think there’s a very strong probability that it came from Sicily.” “Until we know the find spot, we can’t say with certainty,” he said. A spokeswoman for the Italian Culture Ministry in Rome declined to comment on the meeting. The Getty said that Italy had not responded to two invitations to take part. The statue, a rare example of a cult figure considered the embodiment of a deity and used in Greek temple rituals, is viewed as the most historically significant artifact that Italy is demanding that the Getty return. The museum bought the piece for $18 million, a record for an ancient artifact at the time of its purchase. Italy, Greece and many archaeologists argue that museums like the Getty motivate looters to ransack ancient sites and middlemen to trade in illicit antiquities because of their willingness to pay huge prices to build their collections. Experts in art conservation and in soil, pollen and stone analysis convened at the recently refurbished Getty antiquities museum, a Greek-inspired villa in nearby Pacific Palisades. They spent about an hour at the villa inspecting the statue, a seven-and-a-half-foot standing figure with windswept robes carved in limestone, a placid expression on her smooth marble face. Rosario Alaimo, a professor of geochemistry at the University of Palermo, presented research suggesting that the limestone appeared to have been quarried in eastern Sicily, the Getty said. The museum said that John Twilley, a New York conservator and soil expert, presented a chemical analysis of the dirt removed from holes in the statue at the time of its acquisition, while stating that further study would be required before conclusions could be drawn. A new study of pollen remains by Pamela I. Chester, an archaeological palynologist from New Zealand, said the dirt seemed to come from an open landscape that had been extensively cultivated, rather than from virgin forest. Although the Getty has said that there is no evidence for the Italians’ claim that the statue was dug up at Morgantina, it bought the piece without clearly establishing its background. Ms. True, the former curator, purchased the statue through Robin Symes, a London-based art dealer who told the museum that it came from the collection of a Swiss supermarket magnate. “Without any doubt, that was invented by the dealer,” Mr. Bell said. “It was a much more dubious context. A person convicted by the Italians, Canavesi, seems clearly to have had it.” Renzo Canavesi, owner of a tobacco shop in Switzerland, had initially claimed that his family owned the statue from 1939 until 1986, when he said he sold it to Mr. Symes. In a 1997 museum catalog the statue was described as “the most important discovery of a Greek statue in the past decade” and “the only complete example of the most important type of sculpted figure to survive from antiquity.” The fate of 21 other objects remains unresolved. For the moment there are no negotiations with the Italian government, Mr. Brand said. He also said the museum had no intention of returning a prized bronze sculpture taken from the sea in international waters to which he said Italy had no legal claim. “From our point of view, there’s nothing more we can do about the bronze,” he said. Peter Kiefer contributed reporting from Rome. Next Article in Arts (2 of 14) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. A Tinkerer's Art Transforms the World, and the Getty Casting Blame for Looting In Trial of Getty Ex-Curator Bail Set in Greece for Ex-Curator of Getty Italy Digs In Its Heels in Artifacts Dispute With the Getty Getty, J Paul, Museum Next Article in Arts (2 of 14) &#x00bb; The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics NYT ESSENTIAL LIBRARY: OPERA N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/12/arts/design/12aphr.html	J. Paul Getty Museum - Antiquities - New York Times Getty Moves Closer to Returning an Ancient Statue to Italy Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 12, 2007 LOS ANGELES, May 11 — The J. Paul Getty Museum inched a step closer to relinquishing ownership of one of its most prized artifacts, a 2,400-year-old statue of a goddess claimed by Italy, at a conference of international experts to discuss the artifact this week, its director said. Skip to next paragraph The statue at the center of a dispute between the J. Paul Getty Museum and the Italian government. The Getty has not reached a formal conclusion based on the conference, which was convened at the museum on Wednesday and was closed to the public. But museum officials and some of the experts who attended said their discussions buttressed what the museum says are its own suspicions that the statue, acquired by the Getty in 1988, might have been illegally excavated in southern Italy. “There was no dramatic single conclusion, no eureka moment, but it is certainly helping us narrow down the focus,” Michael Brand, the museum’s director, said in an interview. “It would be fair to say that most of the discussion focused on Sicily.” The statue’s precise provenance, like that of many antiquities, is unknown. But the Italian government asserts that it was looted in recent decades, and Mr. Brand said the Getty’s own investigation into its acquisition had revealed “problems.” The museum offered to relinquish title to the statue in November, when negotiations with Italy over the statue and 51 other artifacts broke down. It said it would study the disputed object for a year before making a final decision. At the time, the museum also unilaterally decided to return 26 of the objects. If the Getty turned up persuasive evidence that the statue came from a different archaeological source country, like Libya, or that it had been found and removed from Italy before 1939, when a ban was imposed on such exports, that could furnish a justification for keeping it. But so far no such clear evidence has emerged, Mr. Brand said. He said: “We intend to resolve this whole matter within the next six months, and we will. At some point our board of trustees has to agree to take it out of the public trust and possibly give it to someone else. We should do that very carefully.” The dispute has been part of a painful process of self-examination at an institution rocked by other scandals and disputes in the last decade. The Getty’s former antiquities curator, Marion True, remains on trial in Italy on charges of conspiring to acquire looted objects for the museum. An investigator testified at the trial last year that the goddess had been exported after an illegal excavation in Morgantina in central Sicily, at one time a richly developed part of the Greek empire. Malcolm Bell III, an archaeologist at the who attended Wednesday’s conference, said that there was so far no conclusive evidence that the statue came from Morgantina, where he conducts research, but added, “I think there’s a very strong probability that it came from Sicily.” “Until we know the find spot, we can’t say with certainty,” he said. A spokeswoman for the Italian Culture Ministry in Rome declined to comment on the meeting. The Getty said that Italy had not responded to two invitations to take part. The statue, a rare example of a cult figure considered the embodiment of a deity and used in Greek temple rituals, is viewed as the most historically significant artifact that Italy is demanding that the Getty return. The museum bought the piece for $18 million, a record for an ancient artifact at the time of its purchase. Italy, Greece and many archaeologists argue that museums like the Getty motivate looters to ransack ancient sites and middlemen to trade in illicit antiquities because of their willingness to pay huge prices to build their collections. Experts in art conservation and in soil, pollen and stone analysis convened at the recently refurbished Getty antiquities museum, a Greek-inspired villa in nearby Pacific Palisades. They spent about an hour at the villa inspecting the statue, a seven-and-a-half-foot standing figure with windswept robes carved in limestone, a placid expression on her smooth marble face. Rosario Alaimo, a professor of geochemistry at the University of Palermo, presented research suggesting that the limestone appeared to have been quarried in eastern Sicily, the Getty said. The museum said that John Twilley, a New York conservator and soil expert, presented a chemical analysis of the dirt removed from holes in the statue at the time of its acquisition, while stating that further study would be required before conclusions could be drawn. A new study of pollen remains by Pamela I. Chester, an archaeological palynologist from New Zealand, said the dirt seemed to come from an open landscape that had been extensively cultivated, rather than from virgin forest. Although the Getty has said that there is no evidence for the Italians’ claim that the statue was dug up at Morgantina, it bought the piece without clearly establishing its background. Ms. True, the former curator, purchased the statue through Robin Symes, a London-based art dealer who told the museum that it came from the collection of a Swiss supermarket magnate. “Without any doubt, that was invented by the dealer,” Mr. Bell said. “It was a much more dubious context. A person convicted by the Italians, Canavesi, seems clearly to have had it.” Renzo Canavesi, owner of a tobacco shop in Switzerland, had initially claimed that his family owned the statue from 1939 until 1986, when he said he sold it to Mr. Symes. In a 1997 museum catalog the statue was described as “the most important discovery of a Greek statue in the past decade” and “the only complete example of the most important type of sculpted figure to survive from antiquity.” The fate of 21 other objects remains unresolved. For the moment there are no negotiations with the Italian government, Mr. Brand said. He also said the museum had no intention of returning a prized bronze sculpture taken from the sea in international waters to which he said Italy had no legal claim. “From our point of view, there’s nothing more we can do about the bronze,” he said. Peter Kiefer contributed reporting from Rome. Next Article in Arts (2 of 14) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. A Tinkerer's Art Transforms the World, and the Getty Casting Blame for Looting In Trial of Getty Ex-Curator Bail Set in Greece for Ex-Curator of Getty Italy Digs In Its Heels in Artifacts Dispute With the Getty Getty, J Paul, Museum Next Article in Arts (2 of 14) &#x00bb; The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics NYT ESSENTIAL LIBRARY: OPERA N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/12/arts/12stud.html?ex=1336622400&en=e4ebe78482a75378&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Built to Last, and Lasting - New York Times Built to Last, and Lasting Michael Hanson for The New York Times The Hale County Animal Shelter, one of the projects created by Auburn University&#146;s Rural Studio. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 12, 2007 NEWBERN, Ala., May 6 — They used to serve the hog whole at the annual pig roast here in Hale County, in central Alabama. The architecture students who gathered to honor another year of designing and constructing buildings would slice their own fatty hunks of pork to pile on paper plates, alongside fried catfish, shredded coleslaw and hush puppies. Skip to next paragraph Michael Hanson for The New York Times The newly designed Lions Park, another studio effort. But at this year’s celebration on May 5, as the hammering sun finally eased up, and the evening scent of wild honeysuckle settled in, the pig was carved in advance, to accommodate the large number of people who now line up at the buffet to get through dinner in time for the valediction. The change could serve as a metaphor for what has happened to the 14-year-old program, ’s Rural Studio, since its founder, Samuel Mockbee, died of leukemia five years ago, at 57. Under Mr. Mockbee and Dennis K. Ruth, then the head of Auburn’s architecture department, the program became known for building architecturally distinctive homes for the poorest of the poor, often out of scavenged, donated or discounted materials. The projects — including a chapel made of car tires, a “hay bale” house covered in stucco and another home with a tin roof like a flying wing — earned Mr. Mockbee a “genius” grant, and have become a paradigm of hands-on, do-good architecture. The students, most of them undergraduates, still design and build private homes for people below the poverty line, but they have increasingly shifted into large-scale public projects. This year those projects included dismantling, moving and reassembling a church from the 1850s, as well as building new ball fields (including a concession stand and public bathrooms), a county animal shelter and a Boys and Girls Club. The studio has not altered its core mandate: to produce socially conscious, environmentally sensitive designs for the rural poor in an area about 50 miles south of Tuscaloosa that was made famous by James Agee and Walker Evans’s Depression-era account, “Let Us Now Praise Famous Men.” And the program is determined to retain its scrappy Southern spirit. But change is inevitable: Long associated with Mr. Mockbee, a fifth-generation Mississippian, Rural Studio is now run by Andrew Freear, 41, a wisecracking architect from Yorkshire, England, who left his practice in Chicago seven years ago to work with Mr. Mockbee and took over for him after his death. Known for using unorthodox found objects like car windshields and bottles, the studio now focuses on getting donations of more conventional (and perhaps lasting) building materials. Outside engineering experts now consult on a regular basis, and an advisory board meets twice a year. A scholarship has been created to send a local student to college, and the studio is trying to build an endowment. Auburn University now underwrites the studio’s annual operating budget of $400,000. What Mr. Freear brought to the program “was a professionalism and a discipline that wasn’t always there,” said William H. Sledge, a member of the Rural Studio advisory board who grew up in the area. “He broadened it in a way that is consistent with the idea of building for people without resources.” On May 5, as the academic year ended, studio participants took part in what has become an annual ritual: a daylong tour of the program’s projects, during which students present their work to their professors and parents. A convoy of cars made its way from one site to another, past the wide-open fields with grazing cattle, and the loamy ponds that give the county its nickname, Catfish Capital of the World. The tour began with the church, an unusual project for Rural Studio second-year students more accustomed to constructing buildings than to taking them down. The mission was to disassemble St. Luke’s in Martin Station, then repair, relocate and rebuild it at its original site in Cahawba. “We’re taking it back home,” said Jason Coomes, the professor in charge of the second-year students. “It’s a little ridiculous to take 18- and 20-year-olds and put them on a project of that scope. Our goal was to let them use their own abilities and surprise us with what they do.” Every piece of the humble church — including more than 1,000 cypress floorboards and a battered metal roof — had to be tagged, removed, assessed for damage and stored before it could be moved. “That’s on the level of professional restoration work that they’re doing,” said Joe Ferruggia, a Chicago engineer who works as a Rural Studio adviser. The studio also continues its outreach program, a professional residency for students with bachelor’s degrees who design buildings for local residents. In past years, the price limit was $20,000 in labor and materials, a far cry from real-world rates. “In architecture school, the sky’s the limit — you can design whatever you dream,” said Jane Sloss, 26, an outreach student. “To have to eke out a house out of $20,000 ...” Next Article in Arts (1 of 14) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. ART REVIEW; A Glass House Full of the Past Opens to the Present Arts Library Planned In Brooklyn Hits a Snag Room With a View of an Architect's Retired Ideas Square Feet; In Los Angeles, a Gehry-Designed Awakening Next Article in Arts (1 of 14) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Bush in Accord With Democrats on Trade Deals President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds Role of F.B.I. Informer Draws Praise and Questions On Carrier in Gulf, Cheney Issues Warning to Iran Romney Works to Put Skeptics' Doubts to Rest Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/12/arts/12stud.html?ex=1336622400&en=e4ebe78482a75378&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Built to Last, and Lasting - New York Times Built to Last, and Lasting Michael Hanson for The New York Times The Hale County Animal Shelter, one of the projects created by Auburn University&#146;s Rural Studio. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 12, 2007 NEWBERN, Ala., May 6 — They used to serve the hog whole at the annual pig roast here in Hale County, in central Alabama. The architecture students who gathered to honor another year of designing and constructing buildings would slice their own fatty hunks of pork to pile on paper plates, alongside fried catfish, shredded coleslaw and hush puppies. Skip to next paragraph Michael Hanson for The New York Times The newly designed Lions Park, another studio effort. But at this year’s celebration on May 5, as the hammering sun finally eased up, and the evening scent of wild honeysuckle settled in, the pig was carved in advance, to accommodate the large number of people who now line up at the buffet to get through dinner in time for the valediction. The change could serve as a metaphor for what has happened to the 14-year-old program, ’s Rural Studio, since its founder, Samuel Mockbee, died of leukemia five years ago, at 57. Under Mr. Mockbee and Dennis K. Ruth, then the head of Auburn’s architecture department, the program became known for building architecturally distinctive homes for the poorest of the poor, often out of scavenged, donated or discounted materials. The projects — including a chapel made of car tires, a “hay bale” house covered in stucco and another home with a tin roof like a flying wing — earned Mr. Mockbee a “genius” grant, and have become a paradigm of hands-on, do-good architecture. The students, most of them undergraduates, still design and build private homes for people below the poverty line, but they have increasingly shifted into large-scale public projects. This year those projects included dismantling, moving and reassembling a church from the 1850s, as well as building new ball fields (including a concession stand and public bathrooms), a county animal shelter and a Boys and Girls Club. The studio has not altered its core mandate: to produce socially conscious, environmentally sensitive designs for the rural poor in an area about 50 miles south of Tuscaloosa that was made famous by James Agee and Walker Evans’s Depression-era account, “Let Us Now Praise Famous Men.” And the program is determined to retain its scrappy Southern spirit. But change is inevitable: Long associated with Mr. Mockbee, a fifth-generation Mississippian, Rural Studio is now run by Andrew Freear, 41, a wisecracking architect from Yorkshire, England, who left his practice in Chicago seven years ago to work with Mr. Mockbee and took over for him after his death. Known for using unorthodox found objects like car windshields and bottles, the studio now focuses on getting donations of more conventional (and perhaps lasting) building materials. Outside engineering experts now consult on a regular basis, and an advisory board meets twice a year. A scholarship has been created to send a local student to college, and the studio is trying to build an endowment. Auburn University now underwrites the studio’s annual operating budget of $400,000. What Mr. Freear brought to the program “was a professionalism and a discipline that wasn’t always there,” said William H. Sledge, a member of the Rural Studio advisory board who grew up in the area. “He broadened it in a way that is consistent with the idea of building for people without resources.” On May 5, as the academic year ended, studio participants took part in what has become an annual ritual: a daylong tour of the program’s projects, during which students present their work to their professors and parents. A convoy of cars made its way from one site to another, past the wide-open fields with grazing cattle, and the loamy ponds that give the county its nickname, Catfish Capital of the World. The tour began with the church, an unusual project for Rural Studio second-year students more accustomed to constructing buildings than to taking them down. The mission was to disassemble St. Luke’s in Martin Station, then repair, relocate and rebuild it at its original site in Cahawba. “We’re taking it back home,” said Jason Coomes, the professor in charge of the second-year students. “It’s a little ridiculous to take 18- and 20-year-olds and put them on a project of that scope. Our goal was to let them use their own abilities and surprise us with what they do.” Every piece of the humble church — including more than 1,000 cypress floorboards and a battered metal roof — had to be tagged, removed, assessed for damage and stored before it could be moved. “That’s on the level of professional restoration work that they’re doing,” said Joe Ferruggia, a Chicago engineer who works as a Rural Studio adviser. The studio also continues its outreach program, a professional residency for students with bachelor’s degrees who design buildings for local residents. In past years, the price limit was $20,000 in labor and materials, a far cry from real-world rates. “In architecture school, the sky’s the limit — you can design whatever you dream,” said Jane Sloss, 26, an outreach student. “To have to eke out a house out of $20,000 ...” Next Article in Arts (1 of 14) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. ART REVIEW; A Glass House Full of the Past Opens to the Present Arts Library Planned In Brooklyn Hits a Snag Room With a View of an Architect's Retired Ideas Square Feet; In Los Angeles, a Gehry-Designed Awakening Next Article in Arts (1 of 14) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Bush in Accord With Democrats on Trade Deals President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds Role of F.B.I. Informer Draws Praise and Questions On Carrier in Gulf, Cheney Issues Warning to Iran Romney Works to Put Skeptics' Doubts to Rest Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/12/books/12veil.html	Mohja Kahf - Muslim American - poet - New York Times She Carries Weapons; They Are Called Words Heidi Schumann for The New York Times The writer Mohja Kahf, right, at a reading in San Francisco Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 12, 2007 SAN FRANCISCO, May 11 — Mohja Kahf, an Arab-American writer, draws sharp, funny, earthy portraits of the fault line separating Muslim women from their Western counterparts. At times she captures the breach in a single title, like her poem built around respecting prayer rituals, called “My Grandmother Washes Her Feet in the Sink of the Bathroom at Sears.” Occasionally it just takes a few lines, as in “Hijab Scene #2,” a poem that reads in its entirety: “ ‘You people have such restrictive dress for women,’ she said, hobbling away in three inch heels and panty hose to finish out another pink-collar temp pool day.” Sometimes it’s a whole book, particularly her novel published last year, “The Girl in the Tangerine Scarf,” a coming-of-age tale set in Indiana, where Ms. Kahf spent much of her own childhood. The novel turned Ms. Kahf into something of an idol among Muslim American women, especially younger ones, struggling to reconcile their faith with a country often hostile toward it. “As a Muslim living in the U.S., you run into these little slices of life that are on every page of the book,” said Dina Ibrahim, a 31-year-old broadcasting professor, after Ms. Kahf read recently at the Arab Cultural and Community Center here. For example, Ms. Ibrahim, whose parents are Egyptian, recently experienced the angst of trying to explain to a salesman at Home Depot that she wanted to install a hose in her toilet. Water hoses are ubiquitous in the Arab world, where such ablutions are considered far more sanitary than toilet paper. Ms. Kahf, 39, is a professor of comparative literature at the . She believes that the growing body of Muslim American literature has reached the critical mass where it might be considered its own genre, including works like “The Autobiography of ,” Khaled Hosseini’s novel “The Kite Runner” and a current best seller, “The Reluctant Fundamentalist” by Mohsin Hamid. The books evoke the mixture of pride and shame involved in being an “other,” with characters living the tug of war between assimilating and maintaining the habits of a good Muslim. “Islam makes you this other race,” Ms. Kahf told a literature class at , noting that the genre should appeal to both American Muslims and outsiders seeking a better understanding of the minority. “I can’t not write ethnically, because my characters don’t eat pork and they do use incense.” The knowledge that her work might be one window that outsiders use to view Muslim Americans sometimes shapes her choices as a writer, she explained. In an early draft of her novel, for example, its heroine, Khadra Shamy, changed from being a devout teenager wearing black head scarves to taking the veil off entirely as an adult. In later drafts Ms. Kahf changed her mind. “People would have read it as ‘We won! She is an escaped Muslim woman!’ ” the author said. “People think that all Arab women are dying to uncover.” She ultimately decided that Khadra would remain veiled, at least along the lines that Ms. Kahf is herself — she covers her hair for public appearances, but lets it slip off in restaurants and is less than scrupulous about it on hot days. The book is rife with the lurking dangers that Muslims encounter in America. It details the fear and horror of a kindergarten girl discovering that candy cane contains “pig,” or Khadra’s frustration in middle school when the bullies tear off her head scarf repeatedly, and her teachers pretend not to notice. Ms. Kahf came to this country in 1971 from Damascus, Syria, before her fourth birthday, and like her, many immigrant Muslim children find themselves caught between hostile worlds at school and parents who are basically clueless. Several young women at the San Francisco reading said that in growing up as the only Muslim girls in their communities, they wish they had had Ms. Kahf’s book to read so they knew that they were not alone. Suzanne Shah, a 21-year-old premed student at the , Berkeley, uses Ms. Kahf’s poetry book, “E-mails from Scheherazad,” in a class she helps tutor. “It was refreshing for me to find that there is a poet out there who speaks the same language that I speak and thinks the same way I do,” Ms. Shah said. Ms. Shah, who is unveiled, said she particularly likes a poem castigating those trying to make a battleground out of Muslim women’s hair, with Muslims treating the veil as far too sacred and Westerners misconstruing taking off the veil as liberation. “It’s not war, it’s not freedom, it’s just hair,” said Ms. Shah, who points out to her students how Ms. Kahf is more observer than judge. In the poem about American women seeing her grandmother washing her feet before prayers, for example, Ms. Kahf writes, “They fluster about and flutter their hands, and I can see a clash of civilizations brewing in the Sears bathroom.” Next Article in Books (10 of 13) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Next Article in Books (10 of 13) &#x00bb; The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/12/books/12veil.html	Mohja Kahf - Muslim American - poet - New York Times She Carries Weapons; They Are Called Words Heidi Schumann for The New York Times The writer Mohja Kahf, right, at a reading in San Francisco Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 12, 2007 SAN FRANCISCO, May 11 — Mohja Kahf, an Arab-American writer, draws sharp, funny, earthy portraits of the fault line separating Muslim women from their Western counterparts. At times she captures the breach in a single title, like her poem built around respecting prayer rituals, called “My Grandmother Washes Her Feet in the Sink of the Bathroom at Sears.” Occasionally it just takes a few lines, as in “Hijab Scene #2,” a poem that reads in its entirety: “ ‘You people have such restrictive dress for women,’ she said, hobbling away in three inch heels and panty hose to finish out another pink-collar temp pool day.” Sometimes it’s a whole book, particularly her novel published last year, “The Girl in the Tangerine Scarf,” a coming-of-age tale set in Indiana, where Ms. Kahf spent much of her own childhood. The novel turned Ms. Kahf into something of an idol among Muslim American women, especially younger ones, struggling to reconcile their faith with a country often hostile toward it. “As a Muslim living in the U.S., you run into these little slices of life that are on every page of the book,” said Dina Ibrahim, a 31-year-old broadcasting professor, after Ms. Kahf read recently at the Arab Cultural and Community Center here. For example, Ms. Ibrahim, whose parents are Egyptian, recently experienced the angst of trying to explain to a salesman at Home Depot that she wanted to install a hose in her toilet. Water hoses are ubiquitous in the Arab world, where such ablutions are considered far more sanitary than toilet paper. Ms. Kahf, 39, is a professor of comparative literature at the . She believes that the growing body of Muslim American literature has reached the critical mass where it might be considered its own genre, including works like “The Autobiography of ,” Khaled Hosseini’s novel “The Kite Runner” and a current best seller, “The Reluctant Fundamentalist” by Mohsin Hamid. The books evoke the mixture of pride and shame involved in being an “other,” with characters living the tug of war between assimilating and maintaining the habits of a good Muslim. “Islam makes you this other race,” Ms. Kahf told a literature class at , noting that the genre should appeal to both American Muslims and outsiders seeking a better understanding of the minority. “I can’t not write ethnically, because my characters don’t eat pork and they do use incense.” The knowledge that her work might be one window that outsiders use to view Muslim Americans sometimes shapes her choices as a writer, she explained. In an early draft of her novel, for example, its heroine, Khadra Shamy, changed from being a devout teenager wearing black head scarves to taking the veil off entirely as an adult. In later drafts Ms. Kahf changed her mind. “People would have read it as ‘We won! She is an escaped Muslim woman!’ ” the author said. “People think that all Arab women are dying to uncover.” She ultimately decided that Khadra would remain veiled, at least along the lines that Ms. Kahf is herself — she covers her hair for public appearances, but lets it slip off in restaurants and is less than scrupulous about it on hot days. The book is rife with the lurking dangers that Muslims encounter in America. It details the fear and horror of a kindergarten girl discovering that candy cane contains “pig,” or Khadra’s frustration in middle school when the bullies tear off her head scarf repeatedly, and her teachers pretend not to notice. Ms. Kahf came to this country in 1971 from Damascus, Syria, before her fourth birthday, and like her, many immigrant Muslim children find themselves caught between hostile worlds at school and parents who are basically clueless. Several young women at the San Francisco reading said that in growing up as the only Muslim girls in their communities, they wish they had had Ms. Kahf’s book to read so they knew that they were not alone. Suzanne Shah, a 21-year-old premed student at the , Berkeley, uses Ms. Kahf’s poetry book, “E-mails from Scheherazad,” in a class she helps tutor. “It was refreshing for me to find that there is a poet out there who speaks the same language that I speak and thinks the same way I do,” Ms. Shah said. Ms. Shah, who is unveiled, said she particularly likes a poem castigating those trying to make a battleground out of Muslim women’s hair, with Muslims treating the veil as far too sacred and Westerners misconstruing taking off the veil as liberation. “It’s not war, it’s not freedom, it’s just hair,” said Ms. Shah, who points out to her students how Ms. Kahf is more observer than judge. In the poem about American women seeing her grandmother washing her feet before prayers, for example, Ms. Kahf writes, “They fluster about and flutter their hands, and I can see a clash of civilizations brewing in the Sears bathroom.” Next Article in Books (10 of 13) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Next Article in Books (10 of 13) &#x00bb; The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/12/arts/design/12aphr.html?ex=1336622400&en=0046d6798785b458&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	J. Paul Getty Museum - Antiquities - New York Times Getty Moves Closer to Returning an Ancient Statue to Italy Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 12, 2007 LOS ANGELES, May 11 — The J. Paul Getty Museum inched a step closer to relinquishing ownership of one of its most prized artifacts, a 2,400-year-old statue of a goddess claimed by Italy, at a conference of international experts to discuss the artifact this week, its director said. Skip to next paragraph The statue at the center of a dispute between the J. Paul Getty Museum and the Italian government. The Getty has not reached a formal conclusion based on the conference, which was convened at the museum on Wednesday and was closed to the public. But museum officials and some of the experts who attended said their discussions buttressed what the museum says are its own suspicions that the statue, acquired by the Getty in 1988, might have been illegally excavated in southern Italy. “There was no dramatic single conclusion, no eureka moment, but it is certainly helping us narrow down the focus,” Michael Brand, the museum’s director, said in an interview. “It would be fair to say that most of the discussion focused on Sicily.” The statue’s precise provenance, like that of many antiquities, is unknown. But the Italian government asserts that it was looted in recent decades, and Mr. Brand said the Getty’s own investigation into its acquisition had revealed “problems.” The museum offered to relinquish title to the statue in November, when negotiations with Italy over the statue and 51 other artifacts broke down. It said it would study the disputed object for a year before making a final decision. At the time, the museum also unilaterally decided to return 26 of the objects. If the Getty turned up persuasive evidence that the statue came from a different archaeological source country, like Libya, or that it had been found and removed from Italy before 1939, when a ban was imposed on such exports, that could furnish a justification for keeping it. But so far no such clear evidence has emerged, Mr. Brand said. He said: “We intend to resolve this whole matter within the next six months, and we will. At some point our board of trustees has to agree to take it out of the public trust and possibly give it to someone else. We should do that very carefully.” The dispute has been part of a painful process of self-examination at an institution rocked by other scandals and disputes in the last decade. The Getty’s former antiquities curator, Marion True, remains on trial in Italy on charges of conspiring to acquire looted objects for the museum. An investigator testified at the trial last year that the goddess had been exported after an illegal excavation in Morgantina in central Sicily, at one time a richly developed part of the Greek empire. Malcolm Bell III, an archaeologist at the who attended Wednesday’s conference, said that there was so far no conclusive evidence that the statue came from Morgantina, where he conducts research, but added, “I think there’s a very strong probability that it came from Sicily.” “Until we know the find spot, we can’t say with certainty,” he said. A spokeswoman for the Italian Culture Ministry in Rome declined to comment on the meeting. The Getty said that Italy had not responded to two invitations to take part. The statue, a rare example of a cult figure considered the embodiment of a deity and used in Greek temple rituals, is viewed as the most historically significant artifact that Italy is demanding that the Getty return. The museum bought the piece for $18 million, a record for an ancient artifact at the time of its purchase. Italy, Greece and many archaeologists argue that museums like the Getty motivate looters to ransack ancient sites and middlemen to trade in illicit antiquities because of their willingness to pay huge prices to build their collections. Experts in art conservation and in soil, pollen and stone analysis convened at the recently refurbished Getty antiquities museum, a Greek-inspired villa in nearby Pacific Palisades. They spent about an hour at the villa inspecting the statue, a seven-and-a-half-foot standing figure with windswept robes carved in limestone, a placid expression on her smooth marble face. Rosario Alaimo, a professor of geochemistry at the University of Palermo, presented research suggesting that the limestone appeared to have been quarried in eastern Sicily, the Getty said. The museum said that John Twilley, a New York conservator and soil expert, presented a chemical analysis of the dirt removed from holes in the statue at the time of its acquisition, while stating that further study would be required before conclusions could be drawn. A new study of pollen remains by Pamela I. Chester, an archaeological palynologist from New Zealand, said the dirt seemed to come from an open landscape that had been extensively cultivated, rather than from virgin forest. Although the Getty has said that there is no evidence for the Italians’ claim that the statue was dug up at Morgantina, it bought the piece without clearly establishing its background. Ms. True, the former curator, purchased the statue through Robin Symes, a London-based art dealer who told the museum that it came from the collection of a Swiss supermarket magnate. “Without any doubt, that was invented by the dealer,” Mr. Bell said. “It was a much more dubious context. A person convicted by the Italians, Canavesi, seems clearly to have had it.” Renzo Canavesi, owner of a tobacco shop in Switzerland, had initially claimed that his family owned the statue from 1939 until 1986, when he said he sold it to Mr. Symes. In a 1997 museum catalog the statue was described as “the most important discovery of a Greek statue in the past decade” and “the only complete example of the most important type of sculpted figure to survive from antiquity.” The fate of 21 other objects remains unresolved. For the moment there are no negotiations with the Italian government, Mr. Brand said. He also said the museum had no intention of returning a prized bronze sculpture taken from the sea in international waters to which he said Italy had no legal claim. “From our point of view, there’s nothing more we can do about the bronze,” he said. Peter Kiefer contributed reporting from Rome. Next Article in Arts (2 of 14) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. A Tinkerer's Art Transforms the World, and the Getty Casting Blame for Looting In Trial of Getty Ex-Curator Bail Set in Greece for Ex-Curator of Getty Italy Digs In Its Heels in Artifacts Dispute With the Getty Getty, J Paul, Museum Next Article in Arts (2 of 14) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Bush in Accord With Democrats on Trade Deals President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds Role of F.B.I. Informer Draws Praise and Questions On Carrier in Gulf, Cheney Issues Warning to Iran Romney Works to Put Skeptics' Doubts to Rest Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/12/arts/design/12aphr.html?ex=1336622400&en=0046d6798785b458&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	J. Paul Getty Museum - Antiquities - New York Times Getty Moves Closer to Returning an Ancient Statue to Italy Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 12, 2007 LOS ANGELES, May 11 — The J. Paul Getty Museum inched a step closer to relinquishing ownership of one of its most prized artifacts, a 2,400-year-old statue of a goddess claimed by Italy, at a conference of international experts to discuss the artifact this week, its director said. Skip to next paragraph The statue at the center of a dispute between the J. Paul Getty Museum and the Italian government. The Getty has not reached a formal conclusion based on the conference, which was convened at the museum on Wednesday and was closed to the public. But museum officials and some of the experts who attended said their discussions buttressed what the museum says are its own suspicions that the statue, acquired by the Getty in 1988, might have been illegally excavated in southern Italy. “There was no dramatic single conclusion, no eureka moment, but it is certainly helping us narrow down the focus,” Michael Brand, the museum’s director, said in an interview. “It would be fair to say that most of the discussion focused on Sicily.” The statue’s precise provenance, like that of many antiquities, is unknown. But the Italian government asserts that it was looted in recent decades, and Mr. Brand said the Getty’s own investigation into its acquisition had revealed “problems.” The museum offered to relinquish title to the statue in November, when negotiations with Italy over the statue and 51 other artifacts broke down. It said it would study the disputed object for a year before making a final decision. At the time, the museum also unilaterally decided to return 26 of the objects. If the Getty turned up persuasive evidence that the statue came from a different archaeological source country, like Libya, or that it had been found and removed from Italy before 1939, when a ban was imposed on such exports, that could furnish a justification for keeping it. But so far no such clear evidence has emerged, Mr. Brand said. He said: “We intend to resolve this whole matter within the next six months, and we will. At some point our board of trustees has to agree to take it out of the public trust and possibly give it to someone else. We should do that very carefully.” The dispute has been part of a painful process of self-examination at an institution rocked by other scandals and disputes in the last decade. The Getty’s former antiquities curator, Marion True, remains on trial in Italy on charges of conspiring to acquire looted objects for the museum. An investigator testified at the trial last year that the goddess had been exported after an illegal excavation in Morgantina in central Sicily, at one time a richly developed part of the Greek empire. Malcolm Bell III, an archaeologist at the who attended Wednesday’s conference, said that there was so far no conclusive evidence that the statue came from Morgantina, where he conducts research, but added, “I think there’s a very strong probability that it came from Sicily.” “Until we know the find spot, we can’t say with certainty,” he said. A spokeswoman for the Italian Culture Ministry in Rome declined to comment on the meeting. The Getty said that Italy had not responded to two invitations to take part. The statue, a rare example of a cult figure considered the embodiment of a deity and used in Greek temple rituals, is viewed as the most historically significant artifact that Italy is demanding that the Getty return. The museum bought the piece for $18 million, a record for an ancient artifact at the time of its purchase. Italy, Greece and many archaeologists argue that museums like the Getty motivate looters to ransack ancient sites and middlemen to trade in illicit antiquities because of their willingness to pay huge prices to build their collections. Experts in art conservation and in soil, pollen and stone analysis convened at the recently refurbished Getty antiquities museum, a Greek-inspired villa in nearby Pacific Palisades. They spent about an hour at the villa inspecting the statue, a seven-and-a-half-foot standing figure with windswept robes carved in limestone, a placid expression on her smooth marble face. Rosario Alaimo, a professor of geochemistry at the University of Palermo, presented research suggesting that the limestone appeared to have been quarried in eastern Sicily, the Getty said. The museum said that John Twilley, a New York conservator and soil expert, presented a chemical analysis of the dirt removed from holes in the statue at the time of its acquisition, while stating that further study would be required before conclusions could be drawn. A new study of pollen remains by Pamela I. Chester, an archaeological palynologist from New Zealand, said the dirt seemed to come from an open landscape that had been extensively cultivated, rather than from virgin forest. Although the Getty has said that there is no evidence for the Italians’ claim that the statue was dug up at Morgantina, it bought the piece without clearly establishing its background. Ms. True, the former curator, purchased the statue through Robin Symes, a London-based art dealer who told the museum that it came from the collection of a Swiss supermarket magnate. “Without any doubt, that was invented by the dealer,” Mr. Bell said. “It was a much more dubious context. A person convicted by the Italians, Canavesi, seems clearly to have had it.” Renzo Canavesi, owner of a tobacco shop in Switzerland, had initially claimed that his family owned the statue from 1939 until 1986, when he said he sold it to Mr. Symes. In a 1997 museum catalog the statue was described as “the most important discovery of a Greek statue in the past decade” and “the only complete example of the most important type of sculpted figure to survive from antiquity.” The fate of 21 other objects remains unresolved. For the moment there are no negotiations with the Italian government, Mr. Brand said. He also said the museum had no intention of returning a prized bronze sculpture taken from the sea in international waters to which he said Italy had no legal claim. “From our point of view, there’s nothing more we can do about the bronze,” he said. Peter Kiefer contributed reporting from Rome. Next Article in Arts (2 of 14) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. A Tinkerer's Art Transforms the World, and the Getty Casting Blame for Looting In Trial of Getty Ex-Curator Bail Set in Greece for Ex-Curator of Getty Italy Digs In Its Heels in Artifacts Dispute With the Getty Getty, J Paul, Museum Next Article in Arts (2 of 14) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Bush in Accord With Democrats on Trade Deals President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds Role of F.B.I. Informer Draws Praise and Questions On Carrier in Gulf, Cheney Issues Warning to Iran Romney Works to Put Skeptics' Doubts to Rest Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/12/arts/music/12OPER.html	Washington National Opera - simulcast - schools - universities - New York Times Live From Washington, Opera for the College Crowd Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 12, 2007 Students wandering into some college auditoriums on Sept. 23 may receive a few unexpected lessons on subjects like the nature of Bohemian love, consumptive heroines and life in a garret. The Washington National Opera said it planned to simulcast a live matinee performance of Puccini’s “Bohème” to 14 college campuses and 2 high schools. The feed to the institutions will piggyback on an outdoor broadcast at the Washington Monument, an annual event begun two years ago. led the way with regular live and recorded broadcasts. But the has taken a different tack. The Met sends its broadcasts to movie theaters around the country, which charge $18 a ticket. The campus simulcasts will be free. Two local movie theaters will also have free showings. “We are convinced that it’s very important to try to make opera more accessible,” said , the Washington Opera’s president. “We’ve got to reach out and try to find young opera lovers.” He said the other main goal was to spark interest among donors and foundations to contribute money to the opera company. “There is a fund-raising effort behind this,” said Mr. Feinberg, who from 2001 to 2004 was the special master of the Sept. 11 Victim Compensation Fund. “Whether it will pay off, I do not know.” The overall cost of the simulcast is about $500,000, which will be provided by extra fund-raising, and will cover the expenses of the colleges and schools in showing the opera. A similar simulcast, of a new production of Verdi’s “Rigoletto,” is planned for the spring. , the Washington Opera’s general director, praised the Met general manager, Peter Gelb, for introducing the widespread simulcasts. But they took pains to set their own project apart, noting that their showings were free and aimed at attracting young people to opera. “We are so happy to make this simulcast free not only to our university partners across the country, but also to local students and anyone who wants a taste of top-quality opera,” Mr. Domingo said in a statement released by his assistant. The company named the institutions involved as Bryn Mawr, Princeton, Tulane, , Temple, Rice, the University of North Carolina , Union College, Brockton High School in Massachusetts and Lowell High School in San Francisco. Separately, the Washington Opera said it had an agreement with XM Satellite Radio to transmit old performances over a 23-week period, although XM said the contract had yet to be signed. XM’s rival, Sirius, broadcasts Met performances. Next Article in Arts (4 of 14) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. MUSIC; The End of The Great Big American Voice MUSIC; You'll Never Guess Who's Playing At the D.M.V. MUSIC; The Juilliard Effect: Ten Years Later Bronx Journal; So Class, How Do You Make a Cello? Fatten Up a Violin Next Article in Arts (4 of 14) &#x00bb; The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics NYT ESSENTIAL LIBRARY: OPERA N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/12/arts/music/12OPER.html	Washington National Opera - simulcast - schools - universities - New York Times Live From Washington, Opera for the College Crowd Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 12, 2007 Students wandering into some college auditoriums on Sept. 23 may receive a few unexpected lessons on subjects like the nature of Bohemian love, consumptive heroines and life in a garret. The Washington National Opera said it planned to simulcast a live matinee performance of Puccini’s “Bohème” to 14 college campuses and 2 high schools. The feed to the institutions will piggyback on an outdoor broadcast at the Washington Monument, an annual event begun two years ago. led the way with regular live and recorded broadcasts. But the has taken a different tack. The Met sends its broadcasts to movie theaters around the country, which charge $18 a ticket. The campus simulcasts will be free. Two local movie theaters will also have free showings. “We are convinced that it’s very important to try to make opera more accessible,” said , the Washington Opera’s president. “We’ve got to reach out and try to find young opera lovers.” He said the other main goal was to spark interest among donors and foundations to contribute money to the opera company. “There is a fund-raising effort behind this,” said Mr. Feinberg, who from 2001 to 2004 was the special master of the Sept. 11 Victim Compensation Fund. “Whether it will pay off, I do not know.” The overall cost of the simulcast is about $500,000, which will be provided by extra fund-raising, and will cover the expenses of the colleges and schools in showing the opera. A similar simulcast, of a new production of Verdi’s “Rigoletto,” is planned for the spring. , the Washington Opera’s general director, praised the Met general manager, Peter Gelb, for introducing the widespread simulcasts. But they took pains to set their own project apart, noting that their showings were free and aimed at attracting young people to opera. “We are so happy to make this simulcast free not only to our university partners across the country, but also to local students and anyone who wants a taste of top-quality opera,” Mr. Domingo said in a statement released by his assistant. The company named the institutions involved as Bryn Mawr, Princeton, Tulane, , Temple, Rice, the University of North Carolina , Union College, Brockton High School in Massachusetts and Lowell High School in San Francisco. Separately, the Washington Opera said it had an agreement with XM Satellite Radio to transmit old performances over a 23-week period, although XM said the contract had yet to be signed. XM’s rival, Sirius, broadcasts Met performances. Next Article in Arts (4 of 14) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. MUSIC; The End of The Great Big American Voice MUSIC; You'll Never Guess Who's Playing At the D.M.V. MUSIC; The Juilliard Effect: Ten Years Later Bronx Journal; So Class, How Do You Make a Cello? Fatten Up a Violin Next Article in Arts (4 of 14) &#x00bb; The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics NYT ESSENTIAL LIBRARY: OPERA N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/12/books/12veil.html?ex=1336622400&en=8a9326d7d442500a&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Mohja Kahf - Muslim American - poet - New York Times She Carries Weapons; They Are Called Words Heidi Schumann for The New York Times The writer Mohja Kahf, right, at a reading in San Francisco Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 12, 2007 SAN FRANCISCO, May 11 — Mohja Kahf, an Arab-American writer, draws sharp, funny, earthy portraits of the fault line separating Muslim women from their Western counterparts. At times she captures the breach in a single title, like her poem built around respecting prayer rituals, called “My Grandmother Washes Her Feet in the Sink of the Bathroom at Sears.” Occasionally it just takes a few lines, as in “Hijab Scene #2,” a poem that reads in its entirety: “ ‘You people have such restrictive dress for women,’ she said, hobbling away in three inch heels and panty hose to finish out another pink-collar temp pool day.” Sometimes it’s a whole book, particularly her novel published last year, “The Girl in the Tangerine Scarf,” a coming-of-age tale set in Indiana, where Ms. Kahf spent much of her own childhood. The novel turned Ms. Kahf into something of an idol among Muslim American women, especially younger ones, struggling to reconcile their faith with a country often hostile toward it. “As a Muslim living in the U.S., you run into these little slices of life that are on every page of the book,” said Dina Ibrahim, a 31-year-old broadcasting professor, after Ms. Kahf read recently at the Arab Cultural and Community Center here. For example, Ms. Ibrahim, whose parents are Egyptian, recently experienced the angst of trying to explain to a salesman at Home Depot that she wanted to install a hose in her toilet. Water hoses are ubiquitous in the Arab world, where such ablutions are considered far more sanitary than toilet paper. Ms. Kahf, 39, is a professor of comparative literature at the . She believes that the growing body of Muslim American literature has reached the critical mass where it might be considered its own genre, including works like “The Autobiography of ,” Khaled Hosseini’s novel “The Kite Runner” and a current best seller, “The Reluctant Fundamentalist” by Mohsin Hamid. The books evoke the mixture of pride and shame involved in being an “other,” with characters living the tug of war between assimilating and maintaining the habits of a good Muslim. “Islam makes you this other race,” Ms. Kahf told a literature class at , noting that the genre should appeal to both American Muslims and outsiders seeking a better understanding of the minority. “I can’t not write ethnically, because my characters don’t eat pork and they do use incense.” The knowledge that her work might be one window that outsiders use to view Muslim Americans sometimes shapes her choices as a writer, she explained. In an early draft of her novel, for example, its heroine, Khadra Shamy, changed from being a devout teenager wearing black head scarves to taking the veil off entirely as an adult. In later drafts Ms. Kahf changed her mind. “People would have read it as ‘We won! She is an escaped Muslim woman!’ ” the author said. “People think that all Arab women are dying to uncover.” She ultimately decided that Khadra would remain veiled, at least along the lines that Ms. Kahf is herself — she covers her hair for public appearances, but lets it slip off in restaurants and is less than scrupulous about it on hot days. The book is rife with the lurking dangers that Muslims encounter in America. It details the fear and horror of a kindergarten girl discovering that candy cane contains “pig,” or Khadra’s frustration in middle school when the bullies tear off her head scarf repeatedly, and her teachers pretend not to notice. Ms. Kahf came to this country in 1971 from Damascus, Syria, before her fourth birthday, and like her, many immigrant Muslim children find themselves caught between hostile worlds at school and parents who are basically clueless. Several young women at the San Francisco reading said that in growing up as the only Muslim girls in their communities, they wish they had had Ms. Kahf’s book to read so they knew that they were not alone. Suzanne Shah, a 21-year-old premed student at the , Berkeley, uses Ms. Kahf’s poetry book, “E-mails from Scheherazad,” in a class she helps tutor. “It was refreshing for me to find that there is a poet out there who speaks the same language that I speak and thinks the same way I do,” Ms. Shah said. Ms. Shah, who is unveiled, said she particularly likes a poem castigating those trying to make a battleground out of Muslim women’s hair, with Muslims treating the veil as far too sacred and Westerners misconstruing taking off the veil as liberation. “It’s not war, it’s not freedom, it’s just hair,” said Ms. Shah, who points out to her students how Ms. Kahf is more observer than judge. In the poem about American women seeing her grandmother washing her feet before prayers, for example, Ms. Kahf writes, “They fluster about and flutter their hands, and I can see a clash of civilizations brewing in the Sears bathroom.” Next Article in Books (10 of 13) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Next Article in Books (10 of 13) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Bush in Accord With Democrats on Trade Deals President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds Role of F.B.I. Informer Draws Praise and Questions On Carrier in Gulf, Cheney Issues Warning to Iran Romney Works to Put Skeptics' Doubts to Rest Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/12/books/12veil.html?ex=1336622400&en=8a9326d7d442500a&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Mohja Kahf - Muslim American - poet - New York Times She Carries Weapons; They Are Called Words Heidi Schumann for The New York Times The writer Mohja Kahf, right, at a reading in San Francisco Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 12, 2007 SAN FRANCISCO, May 11 — Mohja Kahf, an Arab-American writer, draws sharp, funny, earthy portraits of the fault line separating Muslim women from their Western counterparts. At times she captures the breach in a single title, like her poem built around respecting prayer rituals, called “My Grandmother Washes Her Feet in the Sink of the Bathroom at Sears.” Occasionally it just takes a few lines, as in “Hijab Scene #2,” a poem that reads in its entirety: “ ‘You people have such restrictive dress for women,’ she said, hobbling away in three inch heels and panty hose to finish out another pink-collar temp pool day.” Sometimes it’s a whole book, particularly her novel published last year, “The Girl in the Tangerine Scarf,” a coming-of-age tale set in Indiana, where Ms. Kahf spent much of her own childhood. The novel turned Ms. Kahf into something of an idol among Muslim American women, especially younger ones, struggling to reconcile their faith with a country often hostile toward it. “As a Muslim living in the U.S., you run into these little slices of life that are on every page of the book,” said Dina Ibrahim, a 31-year-old broadcasting professor, after Ms. Kahf read recently at the Arab Cultural and Community Center here. For example, Ms. Ibrahim, whose parents are Egyptian, recently experienced the angst of trying to explain to a salesman at Home Depot that she wanted to install a hose in her toilet. Water hoses are ubiquitous in the Arab world, where such ablutions are considered far more sanitary than toilet paper. Ms. Kahf, 39, is a professor of comparative literature at the . She believes that the growing body of Muslim American literature has reached the critical mass where it might be considered its own genre, including works like “The Autobiography of ,” Khaled Hosseini’s novel “The Kite Runner” and a current best seller, “The Reluctant Fundamentalist” by Mohsin Hamid. The books evoke the mixture of pride and shame involved in being an “other,” with characters living the tug of war between assimilating and maintaining the habits of a good Muslim. “Islam makes you this other race,” Ms. Kahf told a literature class at , noting that the genre should appeal to both American Muslims and outsiders seeking a better understanding of the minority. “I can’t not write ethnically, because my characters don’t eat pork and they do use incense.” The knowledge that her work might be one window that outsiders use to view Muslim Americans sometimes shapes her choices as a writer, she explained. In an early draft of her novel, for example, its heroine, Khadra Shamy, changed from being a devout teenager wearing black head scarves to taking the veil off entirely as an adult. In later drafts Ms. Kahf changed her mind. “People would have read it as ‘We won! She is an escaped Muslim woman!’ ” the author said. “People think that all Arab women are dying to uncover.” She ultimately decided that Khadra would remain veiled, at least along the lines that Ms. Kahf is herself — she covers her hair for public appearances, but lets it slip off in restaurants and is less than scrupulous about it on hot days. The book is rife with the lurking dangers that Muslims encounter in America. It details the fear and horror of a kindergarten girl discovering that candy cane contains “pig,” or Khadra’s frustration in middle school when the bullies tear off her head scarf repeatedly, and her teachers pretend not to notice. Ms. Kahf came to this country in 1971 from Damascus, Syria, before her fourth birthday, and like her, many immigrant Muslim children find themselves caught between hostile worlds at school and parents who are basically clueless. Several young women at the San Francisco reading said that in growing up as the only Muslim girls in their communities, they wish they had had Ms. Kahf’s book to read so they knew that they were not alone. Suzanne Shah, a 21-year-old premed student at the , Berkeley, uses Ms. Kahf’s poetry book, “E-mails from Scheherazad,” in a class she helps tutor. “It was refreshing for me to find that there is a poet out there who speaks the same language that I speak and thinks the same way I do,” Ms. Shah said. Ms. Shah, who is unveiled, said she particularly likes a poem castigating those trying to make a battleground out of Muslim women’s hair, with Muslims treating the veil as far too sacred and Westerners misconstruing taking off the veil as liberation. “It’s not war, it’s not freedom, it’s just hair,” said Ms. Shah, who points out to her students how Ms. Kahf is more observer than judge. In the poem about American women seeing her grandmother washing her feet before prayers, for example, Ms. Kahf writes, “They fluster about and flutter their hands, and I can see a clash of civilizations brewing in the Sears bathroom.” Next Article in Books (10 of 13) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Next Article in Books (10 of 13) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Bush in Accord With Democrats on Trade Deals President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds Role of F.B.I. Informer Draws Praise and Questions On Carrier in Gulf, Cheney Issues Warning to Iran Romney Works to Put Skeptics' Doubts to Rest Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/12/arts/dance/12viol.html?ex=1336622400&en=a4b5a66c1c4c06e8&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	A Slap Echoing Beyond the Stage - New York Times A Slap Echoing Beyond the Stage Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 12, 2007 At each performance of New York City Ballet ’s new “Romeo and Juliet,” numerous members of the audience gasp aloud in shock at the moment when Lord Capulet knocks his daughter to the ground with a highly audible slap. The slap occurs onstage; then, like an echo, the gasp occurs in the auditorium. Juliet’s parents, unaware that she has already married Romeo, have come to tell her to marry Paris, and she refuses. In Lord Capulet calls his daughter “young baggage! Disobedient wretch!” and adds, “My fingers itch.” But, itch notwithstanding, he doesn’t hit her in the text or in any other “Romeo” I’ve seen in theater, ballet, opera or film. For many viewers this moment blights the choreographer ’s City Ballet production. For some, moreover, it connects to other recent presentations of violence against women onstage, especially the huge furor surrounding the graphic video of the R&B artist Akon forcefully and sexually thrusting himself against a young female dance partner (who later proved to be underage and a minister’s daughter) in front of an audience. Actually, the forms of violence employed toward women by Akon and by this Lord Capulet fall into quite separate aesthetic-moral categories. But there are reasons why Mr. Martins’s “Romeo” seems to overlap the categories, and why this slap leaves a disproportionately awkward aftertaste. Akon’s act, both spontaneous and a piece of performance, and widely seen in the last week on YouTube, was primarily sexual. I don’t condone it, but really it’s an extreme example of the kind of showy, aggressive dance presentation of male-female sex that has been around for a few decades. Pop music videos are full of it. Balletgoers saw it in the (brilliant) let’s-make-love-before-we-kill-ourselves erotic duets of Kenneth MacMillan’s three-act “Mayerling,” new for the in London in 1978 and seen on at least three tours of America; and in the heterosexual masochism dramatized by ’s “Love Songs” widely danced in America in the mid-1980s by the Joffrey Ballet. Modern-dance-goers saw it in the more intense duets of ’s “Nine Sinatra Songs” (1982), an enduringly popular work, but controversial enough in its early days for to shout from the audience, “No more rape!” Moviegoers saw a lyrical version of it in “Dirty Dancing” (1987), in those steamy contact duets in excelsis between a once-innocent young girl and her mature dance instructor. I can’t help suspecting that Akon’s teenage partner felt that she was starring in what you might call “Son of Dirty Dancing.” Any critic of the performing arts must report on such acts when they occur onstage. I think of Janacek’s invariably moving opera “Jenufa” (performed at the Met this season), in which the heroine is physically abused by Laca, leaving a permanent scar on her face, while she is emotionally abused by his half-brother Steva, who will make no public acknowledgment of his paternity of her child; I suspect that if “Jenufa” were performed as a spoken play, the way in which Jenufa settles for Laca, claiming that his violence against her is only part of his greater love, would be unacceptable. Such, though, is Janacek’s music in his finale that we more than go along with her: we find them both enthrallingly large-spirited. Then there is the Rodgers and Hammerstein musical “Carousel” (1945), still astonishing in the emotional delicacy with which it treats a story of physical abuse in marriage. Lord Capulet in the City Ballet “Romeo” is a relatively simple character. At City Ballet, however, the feeling for many in the audience is not simple. In the many ballets made for it by its founder-choreographer, , women are glorified, shown as extraordinarily free and decisive, seldom content to be dependent on a man even in a loving relationship. Robert Gottlieb, in his 2004 biography of Balanchine, recalls a remark in which Balanchine, late in his life, said that Peter Martins “had to be” his successor, because he had the right understanding of what a ballerina needed. But in 1988 Mr. Martins dramatized a Jack-the-Ripper situation in his ballet “Tanzspiel” (based, it was widely said, on the Central Park murder by Robert Chambers), in which the hero kills the heroine. For the next aspect of the gasp factor at City Ballet, you must speak of offstage matters, notably the 1992 incident in which Mr. Martins was arrested on charges of assaulting his wife, the ballerina Darci Kistler. The charges against him were dropped, and I would hesitate to raise this ghost had it not recently been resurrected by Martin Duberman’s new biography of Lincoln Kirstein, which reveals how Mr. Martins nearly lost his job, and how Kirstein, City Ballet’s co-founder, telephoned Mr. Martins “to say that if there was ever again such an incident, he’d never again speak to him.” And I don’t doubt that some people in the City Ballet audience assume that history is repeating itself when Lord Capulet hits his daughter center-stage. Just look at what happens onstage here, however. While the father strikes the child, the mother turns away in dismay and shields her eyes. After a moment of stillness in which his violence registers, she walks around him, looking ruefully into his face (as if to say, “Can’t you control yourself?”), and goes to console her daughter. This mother, Lady Capulet, who has to put up with the violence and temper of the Capulet men throughout, is played by none other than Ms. Kistler; and this “Romeo” is presented in a season dedicated to none other than Kirstein. I assume that Mr. Martins is an artist aware enough of his reputation to know what associations Lord Capulet’s gesture will provoke in the New York State Theater: not just gasps but memories. And I assume too that he means Lady Capulet’s behavior to come as some kind of reproof to male violence; that, in staging this “Romeo” in a Kirstein season, he is publicly assuring those who remember Kirstein that, though violence to women happens, it is regrettable and, in this case, a crucial part of a tragedy. But Jock Soto as Lord Capulet isn’t convincing or even lucid, so that the slap is a startling break in a performance generally marked by vague bluster. Conversely, Ms. Kistler’s reaction as Lady Capulet lacks force. Instead, my mind goes back to the end of this same scene in Frederick Ashton’s version of “Romeo” as seen in 1989, in London and New York, with the great actress-ballerina Lynn Seymour playing Juliet’s mother. As her husband swept out of the room after his furious threats at his daughter, she simply followed, helpless, in his wake, but stopped for a moment to look at both Juliet and the Nurse. Just a look, but powerfully loaded with regret and acutely timed, as if to say: “These men! — and we women — and alas!” Next Article in Arts (3 of 14) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Brooklyn Girl, 9, Dies After Fight With Another Girl at Her School DANCE VIEW; CHOREOGRAPHIC VIOLENCE MAY BE GETTING OUT OF HAND Next Article in Arts (3 of 14) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Bush in Accord With Democrats on Trade Deals President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds Role of F.B.I. Informer Draws Praise and Questions On Carrier in Gulf, Cheney Issues Warning to Iran Romney Works to Put Skeptics' Doubts to Rest Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/12/arts/dance/12viol.html?ex=1336622400&en=a4b5a66c1c4c06e8&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	A Slap Echoing Beyond the Stage - New York Times A Slap Echoing Beyond the Stage Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 12, 2007 At each performance of New York City Ballet ’s new “Romeo and Juliet,” numerous members of the audience gasp aloud in shock at the moment when Lord Capulet knocks his daughter to the ground with a highly audible slap. The slap occurs onstage; then, like an echo, the gasp occurs in the auditorium. Juliet’s parents, unaware that she has already married Romeo, have come to tell her to marry Paris, and she refuses. In Lord Capulet calls his daughter “young baggage! Disobedient wretch!” and adds, “My fingers itch.” But, itch notwithstanding, he doesn’t hit her in the text or in any other “Romeo” I’ve seen in theater, ballet, opera or film. For many viewers this moment blights the choreographer ’s City Ballet production. For some, moreover, it connects to other recent presentations of violence against women onstage, especially the huge furor surrounding the graphic video of the R&B artist Akon forcefully and sexually thrusting himself against a young female dance partner (who later proved to be underage and a minister’s daughter) in front of an audience. Actually, the forms of violence employed toward women by Akon and by this Lord Capulet fall into quite separate aesthetic-moral categories. But there are reasons why Mr. Martins’s “Romeo” seems to overlap the categories, and why this slap leaves a disproportionately awkward aftertaste. Akon’s act, both spontaneous and a piece of performance, and widely seen in the last week on YouTube, was primarily sexual. I don’t condone it, but really it’s an extreme example of the kind of showy, aggressive dance presentation of male-female sex that has been around for a few decades. Pop music videos are full of it. Balletgoers saw it in the (brilliant) let’s-make-love-before-we-kill-ourselves erotic duets of Kenneth MacMillan’s three-act “Mayerling,” new for the in London in 1978 and seen on at least three tours of America; and in the heterosexual masochism dramatized by ’s “Love Songs” widely danced in America in the mid-1980s by the Joffrey Ballet. Modern-dance-goers saw it in the more intense duets of ’s “Nine Sinatra Songs” (1982), an enduringly popular work, but controversial enough in its early days for to shout from the audience, “No more rape!” Moviegoers saw a lyrical version of it in “Dirty Dancing” (1987), in those steamy contact duets in excelsis between a once-innocent young girl and her mature dance instructor. I can’t help suspecting that Akon’s teenage partner felt that she was starring in what you might call “Son of Dirty Dancing.” Any critic of the performing arts must report on such acts when they occur onstage. I think of Janacek’s invariably moving opera “Jenufa” (performed at the Met this season), in which the heroine is physically abused by Laca, leaving a permanent scar on her face, while she is emotionally abused by his half-brother Steva, who will make no public acknowledgment of his paternity of her child; I suspect that if “Jenufa” were performed as a spoken play, the way in which Jenufa settles for Laca, claiming that his violence against her is only part of his greater love, would be unacceptable. Such, though, is Janacek’s music in his finale that we more than go along with her: we find them both enthrallingly large-spirited. Then there is the Rodgers and Hammerstein musical “Carousel” (1945), still astonishing in the emotional delicacy with which it treats a story of physical abuse in marriage. Lord Capulet in the City Ballet “Romeo” is a relatively simple character. At City Ballet, however, the feeling for many in the audience is not simple. In the many ballets made for it by its founder-choreographer, , women are glorified, shown as extraordinarily free and decisive, seldom content to be dependent on a man even in a loving relationship. Robert Gottlieb, in his 2004 biography of Balanchine, recalls a remark in which Balanchine, late in his life, said that Peter Martins “had to be” his successor, because he had the right understanding of what a ballerina needed. But in 1988 Mr. Martins dramatized a Jack-the-Ripper situation in his ballet “Tanzspiel” (based, it was widely said, on the Central Park murder by Robert Chambers), in which the hero kills the heroine. For the next aspect of the gasp factor at City Ballet, you must speak of offstage matters, notably the 1992 incident in which Mr. Martins was arrested on charges of assaulting his wife, the ballerina Darci Kistler. The charges against him were dropped, and I would hesitate to raise this ghost had it not recently been resurrected by Martin Duberman’s new biography of Lincoln Kirstein, which reveals how Mr. Martins nearly lost his job, and how Kirstein, City Ballet’s co-founder, telephoned Mr. Martins “to say that if there was ever again such an incident, he’d never again speak to him.” And I don’t doubt that some people in the City Ballet audience assume that history is repeating itself when Lord Capulet hits his daughter center-stage. Just look at what happens onstage here, however. While the father strikes the child, the mother turns away in dismay and shields her eyes. After a moment of stillness in which his violence registers, she walks around him, looking ruefully into his face (as if to say, “Can’t you control yourself?”), and goes to console her daughter. This mother, Lady Capulet, who has to put up with the violence and temper of the Capulet men throughout, is played by none other than Ms. Kistler; and this “Romeo” is presented in a season dedicated to none other than Kirstein. I assume that Mr. Martins is an artist aware enough of his reputation to know what associations Lord Capulet’s gesture will provoke in the New York State Theater: not just gasps but memories. And I assume too that he means Lady Capulet’s behavior to come as some kind of reproof to male violence; that, in staging this “Romeo” in a Kirstein season, he is publicly assuring those who remember Kirstein that, though violence to women happens, it is regrettable and, in this case, a crucial part of a tragedy. But Jock Soto as Lord Capulet isn’t convincing or even lucid, so that the slap is a startling break in a performance generally marked by vague bluster. Conversely, Ms. Kistler’s reaction as Lady Capulet lacks force. Instead, my mind goes back to the end of this same scene in Frederick Ashton’s version of “Romeo” as seen in 1989, in London and New York, with the great actress-ballerina Lynn Seymour playing Juliet’s mother. As her husband swept out of the room after his furious threats at his daughter, she simply followed, helpless, in his wake, but stopped for a moment to look at both Juliet and the Nurse. Just a look, but powerfully loaded with regret and acutely timed, as if to say: “These men! — and we women — and alas!” Next Article in Arts (3 of 14) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Brooklyn Girl, 9, Dies After Fight With Another Girl at Her School DANCE VIEW; CHOREOGRAPHIC VIOLENCE MAY BE GETTING OUT OF HAND Next Article in Arts (3 of 14) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Bush in Accord With Democrats on Trade Deals President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds Role of F.B.I. Informer Draws Praise and Questions On Carrier in Gulf, Cheney Issues Warning to Iran Romney Works to Put Skeptics' Doubts to Rest Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/12/arts/12stud.html	Built to Last, and Lasting - New York Times Built to Last, and Lasting Michael Hanson for The New York Times The Hale County Animal Shelter, one of the projects created by Auburn University&#146;s Rural Studio. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 12, 2007 NEWBERN, Ala., May 6 — They used to serve the hog whole at the annual pig roast here in Hale County, in central Alabama. The architecture students who gathered to honor another year of designing and constructing buildings would slice their own fatty hunks of pork to pile on paper plates, alongside fried catfish, shredded coleslaw and hush puppies. Skip to next paragraph Michael Hanson for The New York Times The newly designed Lions Park, another studio effort. But at this year’s celebration on May 5, as the hammering sun finally eased up, and the evening scent of wild honeysuckle settled in, the pig was carved in advance, to accommodate the large number of people who now line up at the buffet to get through dinner in time for the valediction. The change could serve as a metaphor for what has happened to the 14-year-old program, ’s Rural Studio, since its founder, Samuel Mockbee, died of leukemia five years ago, at 57. Under Mr. Mockbee and Dennis K. Ruth, then the head of Auburn’s architecture department, the program became known for building architecturally distinctive homes for the poorest of the poor, often out of scavenged, donated or discounted materials. The projects — including a chapel made of car tires, a “hay bale” house covered in stucco and another home with a tin roof like a flying wing — earned Mr. Mockbee a “genius” grant, and have become a paradigm of hands-on, do-good architecture. The students, most of them undergraduates, still design and build private homes for people below the poverty line, but they have increasingly shifted into large-scale public projects. This year those projects included dismantling, moving and reassembling a church from the 1850s, as well as building new ball fields (including a concession stand and public bathrooms), a county animal shelter and a Boys and Girls Club. The studio has not altered its core mandate: to produce socially conscious, environmentally sensitive designs for the rural poor in an area about 50 miles south of Tuscaloosa that was made famous by James Agee and Walker Evans’s Depression-era account, “Let Us Now Praise Famous Men.” And the program is determined to retain its scrappy Southern spirit. But change is inevitable: Long associated with Mr. Mockbee, a fifth-generation Mississippian, Rural Studio is now run by Andrew Freear, 41, a wisecracking architect from Yorkshire, England, who left his practice in Chicago seven years ago to work with Mr. Mockbee and took over for him after his death. Known for using unorthodox found objects like car windshields and bottles, the studio now focuses on getting donations of more conventional (and perhaps lasting) building materials. Outside engineering experts now consult on a regular basis, and an advisory board meets twice a year. A scholarship has been created to send a local student to college, and the studio is trying to build an endowment. Auburn University now underwrites the studio’s annual operating budget of $400,000. What Mr. Freear brought to the program “was a professionalism and a discipline that wasn’t always there,” said William H. Sledge, a member of the Rural Studio advisory board who grew up in the area. “He broadened it in a way that is consistent with the idea of building for people without resources.” On May 5, as the academic year ended, studio participants took part in what has become an annual ritual: a daylong tour of the program’s projects, during which students present their work to their professors and parents. A convoy of cars made its way from one site to another, past the wide-open fields with grazing cattle, and the loamy ponds that give the county its nickname, Catfish Capital of the World. The tour began with the church, an unusual project for Rural Studio second-year students more accustomed to constructing buildings than to taking them down. The mission was to disassemble St. Luke’s in Martin Station, then repair, relocate and rebuild it at its original site in Cahawba. “We’re taking it back home,” said Jason Coomes, the professor in charge of the second-year students. “It’s a little ridiculous to take 18- and 20-year-olds and put them on a project of that scope. Our goal was to let them use their own abilities and surprise us with what they do.” Every piece of the humble church — including more than 1,000 cypress floorboards and a battered metal roof — had to be tagged, removed, assessed for damage and stored before it could be moved. “That’s on the level of professional restoration work that they’re doing,” said Joe Ferruggia, a Chicago engineer who works as a Rural Studio adviser. The studio also continues its outreach program, a professional residency for students with bachelor’s degrees who design buildings for local residents. In past years, the price limit was $20,000 in labor and materials, a far cry from real-world rates. “In architecture school, the sky’s the limit — you can design whatever you dream,” said Jane Sloss, 26, an outreach student. “To have to eke out a house out of $20,000 ...” Next Article in Arts (1 of 14) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. ART REVIEW; A Glass House Full of the Past Opens to the Present Arts Library Planned In Brooklyn Hits a Snag Room With a View of an Architect's Retired Ideas Square Feet; In Los Angeles, a Gehry-Designed Awakening Next Article in Arts (1 of 14) &#x00bb; The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics Opsail - Jigsaw Puzzle N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/12/arts/12stud.html	Built to Last, and Lasting - New York Times Built to Last, and Lasting Michael Hanson for The New York Times The Hale County Animal Shelter, one of the projects created by Auburn University&#146;s Rural Studio. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 12, 2007 NEWBERN, Ala., May 6 — They used to serve the hog whole at the annual pig roast here in Hale County, in central Alabama. The architecture students who gathered to honor another year of designing and constructing buildings would slice their own fatty hunks of pork to pile on paper plates, alongside fried catfish, shredded coleslaw and hush puppies. Skip to next paragraph Michael Hanson for The New York Times The newly designed Lions Park, another studio effort. But at this year’s celebration on May 5, as the hammering sun finally eased up, and the evening scent of wild honeysuckle settled in, the pig was carved in advance, to accommodate the large number of people who now line up at the buffet to get through dinner in time for the valediction. The change could serve as a metaphor for what has happened to the 14-year-old program, ’s Rural Studio, since its founder, Samuel Mockbee, died of leukemia five years ago, at 57. Under Mr. Mockbee and Dennis K. Ruth, then the head of Auburn’s architecture department, the program became known for building architecturally distinctive homes for the poorest of the poor, often out of scavenged, donated or discounted materials. The projects — including a chapel made of car tires, a “hay bale” house covered in stucco and another home with a tin roof like a flying wing — earned Mr. Mockbee a “genius” grant, and have become a paradigm of hands-on, do-good architecture. The students, most of them undergraduates, still design and build private homes for people below the poverty line, but they have increasingly shifted into large-scale public projects. This year those projects included dismantling, moving and reassembling a church from the 1850s, as well as building new ball fields (including a concession stand and public bathrooms), a county animal shelter and a Boys and Girls Club. The studio has not altered its core mandate: to produce socially conscious, environmentally sensitive designs for the rural poor in an area about 50 miles south of Tuscaloosa that was made famous by James Agee and Walker Evans’s Depression-era account, “Let Us Now Praise Famous Men.” And the program is determined to retain its scrappy Southern spirit. But change is inevitable: Long associated with Mr. Mockbee, a fifth-generation Mississippian, Rural Studio is now run by Andrew Freear, 41, a wisecracking architect from Yorkshire, England, who left his practice in Chicago seven years ago to work with Mr. Mockbee and took over for him after his death. Known for using unorthodox found objects like car windshields and bottles, the studio now focuses on getting donations of more conventional (and perhaps lasting) building materials. Outside engineering experts now consult on a regular basis, and an advisory board meets twice a year. A scholarship has been created to send a local student to college, and the studio is trying to build an endowment. Auburn University now underwrites the studio’s annual operating budget of $400,000. What Mr. Freear brought to the program “was a professionalism and a discipline that wasn’t always there,” said William H. Sledge, a member of the Rural Studio advisory board who grew up in the area. “He broadened it in a way that is consistent with the idea of building for people without resources.” On May 5, as the academic year ended, studio participants took part in what has become an annual ritual: a daylong tour of the program’s projects, during which students present their work to their professors and parents. A convoy of cars made its way from one site to another, past the wide-open fields with grazing cattle, and the loamy ponds that give the county its nickname, Catfish Capital of the World. The tour began with the church, an unusual project for Rural Studio second-year students more accustomed to constructing buildings than to taking them down. The mission was to disassemble St. Luke’s in Martin Station, then repair, relocate and rebuild it at its original site in Cahawba. “We’re taking it back home,” said Jason Coomes, the professor in charge of the second-year students. “It’s a little ridiculous to take 18- and 20-year-olds and put them on a project of that scope. Our goal was to let them use their own abilities and surprise us with what they do.” Every piece of the humble church — including more than 1,000 cypress floorboards and a battered metal roof — had to be tagged, removed, assessed for damage and stored before it could be moved. “That’s on the level of professional restoration work that they’re doing,” said Joe Ferruggia, a Chicago engineer who works as a Rural Studio adviser. The studio also continues its outreach program, a professional residency for students with bachelor’s degrees who design buildings for local residents. In past years, the price limit was $20,000 in labor and materials, a far cry from real-world rates. “In architecture school, the sky’s the limit — you can design whatever you dream,” said Jane Sloss, 26, an outreach student. “To have to eke out a house out of $20,000 ...” Next Article in Arts (1 of 14) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. ART REVIEW; A Glass House Full of the Past Opens to the Present Arts Library Planned In Brooklyn Hits a Snag Room With a View of an Architect's Retired Ideas Square Feet; In Los Angeles, a Gehry-Designed Awakening Next Article in Arts (1 of 14) &#x00bb; The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics Opsail - Jigsaw Puzzle N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/pages/arts/index.html	Arts - New York Times Built to Last, and Lasting Michael Hanson for The New York Times The Hale County Animal Shelter, one of the projects created by Auburn University&#146;s Rural Studio. Auburn University’s Rural Studio program is still about hands-on projects using any items hands can be gotten on. Getty Moves Closer to Returning an Ancient Statue to Italy The 2,400-year-old statue of the goddess Aphrodite is one of the J. Paul Getty Museum’s most prized artifacts and it might have been illegally excavated in southern Italy. Theater Review | Stairway to Paradise Mining a Rich Vein of Sequins in Revues The radiant surprise of “Stairway to Paradise,” which runs through Monday at City Center, is how much fresher it feels than contemporary Broadway blockbusters that use more recent pop songbooks. A Slap Echoing Beyond the Stage At each performance of New York City Ballet’s new “Romeo and Juliet,” numerous members of the audience gasp aloud in shock at a violent moment onstage. She Carries Weapons; They Are Called Words Mohja Kakf, a poet and professor, walks the tightrope between her Arab American worlds. Live From Washington, Opera for the College Crowd By DANIEL J. WAKIN The Washington National Opera launches a plan to bring opera into the schools. Radio Hosts Lose a Sponsor After a Routine About Rape Trojan condoms is the second advertiser in a week to pull advertising from the “Opie & Anthony” show following a conversation about an imagined sexual assault of Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice. At 80, He’s Hardly Done Talking, or Performing Charles Rosen keeps his repertory fresh by continuing to “experiment in public.” Music Review | Dulce Pontes A New Style for Portugal’s Old Fado, but the Songs Are Still Full of Emotion Dulce Pontes brought quintessential Portuguese fado singing, with long-breathed swoops and tempestuous dynamic surges, to Carnegie Hall on Thursday. Music Review | Jordi Savall Soft Sounds, Subtle Shadings: What Would Have Been on Louis XIV’s iPod Viola da gamba virtuoso Jordi Savall brought music fit for the ears of kings to the Metropolitan Museum of Art on Wednesday. Aspen isn’t laughing, rebirth in Lebanon for conductor Riccardo Muti, Francis Ford Coppola’s comeback and more culture news. No Rain or Love, Till a Guy Promises Both Disillusioned Diva With Glimmers of Soul Melly Still on ‘Coram Boy’ Music Review: Bringing a Touch of Jazz Even to Familiar Pop Songs Movie Review | "Delta Farce": War on Terror Takes a Detour You Go to a Fight, and a Boston Pops Concert Breaks Out Puffing Away That PG Rating 'Animal, Vegetable, Miracle,' by Barbara Kingsolver: Because It’s Good for You, That’s Why Art Review | International Fine Art Fair: Intimate Nooks Filled With Unexpected Treasures Dance Review | Urban Bush Women: Channeling Group Dynamics Fueled by the Power of Funk Music Review | Lisa Gerrard: The Somber Sound of Nondenominational Mysticism Music Review | Anat Cohen Quartet: A Musical World Traveler Who Likes to Mix Things Up Theater Review | 'Couples': Blissful and Benighted: Dispatches From the War of the Sexes Spare Times: For Children Movie Review | 'Casting About': The Cold Male Gaze Movie Review | 'Duck': A Sense of Purpose Takes Flight Movie Review | 'The Hip Hop Project': Beats With a Meaning Movie Review | 'The Salon': Cutting Hair and Cutting Remarks Movie Review | 'ShowBusiness': The Broad Scope of Broadway Movie Review | 'Provoked': Revisiting the True Story of a Battered Wife’s Revenge Movie Review | 'The Ex': Chasing an Old Flame, Taking No Prisoners Movie Review | 'Disappearances': Realism, Both Magic and Downright Mean Movie Review | 'Georgia Rule': Hey, California Girl, Don’t Mess With Grandma Inside Art: Guggenheim Foundation Takes Steps to Preserve Its Artistic Legacy Harlem’s Cultural Anchor in a Sea of Ideas Kirstein’s Lust for Art and Artists Feeling the Burn, and the Triumph, After Some Gritty Labors The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies A Loving Look at a Cinematic Tough Guy: Gangster, Hit Man, Gunslinger Radio Hosts Lose a Sponsor After a Routine About Rape A Charm School Teaching a Lot More Than Manners Nature, Nature, Burning Bright (High-Def Cameras Frame Thy Fearful Symmetry) from the past 7 days enter keyword or date e.g. April 21, 2001 A Charm School Teaching a Lot More Than Manners VH1’s fizzy “Flavor of Love Girls: Charm School Starring Mo’Nique” emphasizes strength as much as delicacy and decorum. Classic Jazz With No Frills or Preening With jazz singer Karrin Allyson, who performed last week at Birdland, there is never any nonsense and what you hear is what you get. Who uses YouTube? People like paul99503. Go to Blog » The Times's pop music critics discuss the latest albums and music events of the week. Download an MP3 Version Find your comprehensive television listings with this Longer editions of selected event listings in the New York area this week are now available online. The Week in Arts Where Are All the Black Swans? Speaking Love With Kurt and Lotte May 6 - May 12 FIND IT IN NYC MOST POPULAR - ARTS Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Music: Off the Beaten Beat Harlem&#8217;s Cultural Anchor in a Sea of Ideas Video Games: Finding Fellowship (Hairy Feet Optional) Film: A Loving Look at a Cinematic Tough Guy: Gangster, Hit Man, Gunslinger Movie Review | 'Georgia Rule': Hey, California Girl, Don&#8217;t Mess With Grandma Books of the Times: Because It&#8217;s Good for You, That&#8217;s Why Nature, Nature, Burning Bright (High-Def Cameras Frame Thy Fearful Symmetry) Art Review | 'Poiret: King of Fashion': What to Wear to a Revolution Built to Last, and Lasting Go to Complete List » Hush, Mama, Don't You Cry, A New Yellow Wiggle Will Sing Go to Complete List » Ewan McGregor Earns Minimum Wage As Iago Helsinki Braces for Eurovision Song Contest Final Imus Producer: Sharpton a 'Race - Baiter' Japan's WWII "Kamikaze" Film Sparks Talk of Peace Los Angeles Police Arrest the Game Kooper, Redding Inducted Into RockWalk The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics The Coal Cart and The Towers, circa 1910 Buy, sell or research a car. Get closer to film, music, art and plays. $3.15 a week. Plan what to see, eat and do. What’s new on Broadway? Continuous coverage of business news. Post a job online today! The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/pages/arts/index.html	Arts - New York Times Built to Last, and Lasting Michael Hanson for The New York Times The Hale County Animal Shelter, one of the projects created by Auburn University&#146;s Rural Studio. Auburn University’s Rural Studio program is still about hands-on projects using any items hands can be gotten on. Getty Moves Closer to Returning an Ancient Statue to Italy The 2,400-year-old statue of the goddess Aphrodite is one of the J. Paul Getty Museum’s most prized artifacts and it might have been illegally excavated in southern Italy. Theater Review | Stairway to Paradise Mining a Rich Vein of Sequins in Revues The radiant surprise of “Stairway to Paradise,” which runs through Monday at City Center, is how much fresher it feels than contemporary Broadway blockbusters that use more recent pop songbooks. A Slap Echoing Beyond the Stage At each performance of New York City Ballet’s new “Romeo and Juliet,” numerous members of the audience gasp aloud in shock at a violent moment onstage. She Carries Weapons; They Are Called Words Mohja Kakf, a poet and professor, walks the tightrope between her Arab American worlds. Live From Washington, Opera for the College Crowd By DANIEL J. WAKIN The Washington National Opera launches a plan to bring opera into the schools. Radio Hosts Lose a Sponsor After a Routine About Rape Trojan condoms is the second advertiser in a week to pull advertising from the “Opie & Anthony” show following a conversation about an imagined sexual assault of Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice. At 80, He’s Hardly Done Talking, or Performing Charles Rosen keeps his repertory fresh by continuing to “experiment in public.” Music Review | Dulce Pontes A New Style for Portugal’s Old Fado, but the Songs Are Still Full of Emotion Dulce Pontes brought quintessential Portuguese fado singing, with long-breathed swoops and tempestuous dynamic surges, to Carnegie Hall on Thursday. Music Review | Jordi Savall Soft Sounds, Subtle Shadings: What Would Have Been on Louis XIV’s iPod Viola da gamba virtuoso Jordi Savall brought music fit for the ears of kings to the Metropolitan Museum of Art on Wednesday. Aspen isn’t laughing, rebirth in Lebanon for conductor Riccardo Muti, Francis Ford Coppola’s comeback and more culture news. No Rain or Love, Till a Guy Promises Both Disillusioned Diva With Glimmers of Soul Melly Still on ‘Coram Boy’ Music Review: Bringing a Touch of Jazz Even to Familiar Pop Songs Movie Review | "Delta Farce": War on Terror Takes a Detour You Go to a Fight, and a Boston Pops Concert Breaks Out Puffing Away That PG Rating 'Animal, Vegetable, Miracle,' by Barbara Kingsolver: Because It’s Good for You, That’s Why Art Review | International Fine Art Fair: Intimate Nooks Filled With Unexpected Treasures Dance Review | Urban Bush Women: Channeling Group Dynamics Fueled by the Power of Funk Music Review | Lisa Gerrard: The Somber Sound of Nondenominational Mysticism Music Review | Anat Cohen Quartet: A Musical World Traveler Who Likes to Mix Things Up Theater Review | 'Couples': Blissful and Benighted: Dispatches From the War of the Sexes Spare Times: For Children Movie Review | 'Casting About': The Cold Male Gaze Movie Review | 'Duck': A Sense of Purpose Takes Flight Movie Review | 'The Hip Hop Project': Beats With a Meaning Movie Review | 'The Salon': Cutting Hair and Cutting Remarks Movie Review | 'ShowBusiness': The Broad Scope of Broadway Movie Review | 'Provoked': Revisiting the True Story of a Battered Wife’s Revenge Movie Review | 'The Ex': Chasing an Old Flame, Taking No Prisoners Movie Review | 'Disappearances': Realism, Both Magic and Downright Mean Movie Review | 'Georgia Rule': Hey, California Girl, Don’t Mess With Grandma Inside Art: Guggenheim Foundation Takes Steps to Preserve Its Artistic Legacy Harlem’s Cultural Anchor in a Sea of Ideas Kirstein’s Lust for Art and Artists Feeling the Burn, and the Triumph, After Some Gritty Labors The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies A Loving Look at a Cinematic Tough Guy: Gangster, Hit Man, Gunslinger Radio Hosts Lose a Sponsor After a Routine About Rape A Charm School Teaching a Lot More Than Manners Nature, Nature, Burning Bright (High-Def Cameras Frame Thy Fearful Symmetry) from the past 7 days enter keyword or date e.g. April 21, 2001 A Charm School Teaching a Lot More Than Manners VH1’s fizzy “Flavor of Love Girls: Charm School Starring Mo’Nique” emphasizes strength as much as delicacy and decorum. Classic Jazz With No Frills or Preening With jazz singer Karrin Allyson, who performed last week at Birdland, there is never any nonsense and what you hear is what you get. Who uses YouTube? People like paul99503. Go to Blog » The Times's pop music critics discuss the latest albums and music events of the week. Download an MP3 Version Find your comprehensive television listings with this Longer editions of selected event listings in the New York area this week are now available online. The Week in Arts Where Are All the Black Swans? Speaking Love With Kurt and Lotte May 6 - May 12 FIND IT IN NYC MOST POPULAR - ARTS Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Music: Off the Beaten Beat Harlem&#8217;s Cultural Anchor in a Sea of Ideas Video Games: Finding Fellowship (Hairy Feet Optional) Film: A Loving Look at a Cinematic Tough Guy: Gangster, Hit Man, Gunslinger Movie Review | 'Georgia Rule': Hey, California Girl, Don&#8217;t Mess With Grandma Books of the Times: Because It&#8217;s Good for You, That&#8217;s Why Nature, Nature, Burning Bright (High-Def Cameras Frame Thy Fearful Symmetry) Art Review | 'Poiret: King of Fashion': What to Wear to a Revolution Built to Last, and Lasting Go to Complete List » Hush, Mama, Don't You Cry, A New Yellow Wiggle Will Sing Go to Complete List » Ewan McGregor Earns Minimum Wage As Iago Helsinki Braces for Eurovision Song Contest Final Imus Producer: Sharpton a 'Race - Baiter' Japan's WWII "Kamikaze" Film Sparks Talk of Peace Los Angeles Police Arrest the Game Kooper, Redding Inducted Into RockWalk The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics The Coal Cart and The Towers, circa 1910 Buy, sell or research a car. Get closer to film, music, art and plays. $3.15 a week. Plan what to see, eat and do. What’s new on Broadway? Continuous coverage of business news. Post a job online today! The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/12/arts/dance/12viol.html	A Slap Echoing Beyond the Stage - New York Times A Slap Echoing Beyond the Stage Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 12, 2007 At each performance of New York City Ballet ’s new “Romeo and Juliet,” numerous members of the audience gasp aloud in shock at the moment when Lord Capulet knocks his daughter to the ground with a highly audible slap. The slap occurs onstage; then, like an echo, the gasp occurs in the auditorium. Juliet’s parents, unaware that she has already married Romeo, have come to tell her to marry Paris, and she refuses. In Lord Capulet calls his daughter “young baggage! Disobedient wretch!” and adds, “My fingers itch.” But, itch notwithstanding, he doesn’t hit her in the text or in any other “Romeo” I’ve seen in theater, ballet, opera or film. For many viewers this moment blights the choreographer ’s City Ballet production. For some, moreover, it connects to other recent presentations of violence against women onstage, especially the huge furor surrounding the graphic video of the R&B artist Akon forcefully and sexually thrusting himself against a young female dance partner (who later proved to be underage and a minister’s daughter) in front of an audience. Actually, the forms of violence employed toward women by Akon and by this Lord Capulet fall into quite separate aesthetic-moral categories. But there are reasons why Mr. Martins’s “Romeo” seems to overlap the categories, and why this slap leaves a disproportionately awkward aftertaste. Akon’s act, both spontaneous and a piece of performance, and widely seen in the last week on YouTube, was primarily sexual. I don’t condone it, but really it’s an extreme example of the kind of showy, aggressive dance presentation of male-female sex that has been around for a few decades. Pop music videos are full of it. Balletgoers saw it in the (brilliant) let’s-make-love-before-we-kill-ourselves erotic duets of Kenneth MacMillan’s three-act “Mayerling,” new for the in London in 1978 and seen on at least three tours of America; and in the heterosexual masochism dramatized by ’s “Love Songs” widely danced in America in the mid-1980s by the Joffrey Ballet. Modern-dance-goers saw it in the more intense duets of ’s “Nine Sinatra Songs” (1982), an enduringly popular work, but controversial enough in its early days for to shout from the audience, “No more rape!” Moviegoers saw a lyrical version of it in “Dirty Dancing” (1987), in those steamy contact duets in excelsis between a once-innocent young girl and her mature dance instructor. I can’t help suspecting that Akon’s teenage partner felt that she was starring in what you might call “Son of Dirty Dancing.” Any critic of the performing arts must report on such acts when they occur onstage. I think of Janacek’s invariably moving opera “Jenufa” (performed at the Met this season), in which the heroine is physically abused by Laca, leaving a permanent scar on her face, while she is emotionally abused by his half-brother Steva, who will make no public acknowledgment of his paternity of her child; I suspect that if “Jenufa” were performed as a spoken play, the way in which Jenufa settles for Laca, claiming that his violence against her is only part of his greater love, would be unacceptable. Such, though, is Janacek’s music in his finale that we more than go along with her: we find them both enthrallingly large-spirited. Then there is the Rodgers and Hammerstein musical “Carousel” (1945), still astonishing in the emotional delicacy with which it treats a story of physical abuse in marriage. Lord Capulet in the City Ballet “Romeo” is a relatively simple character. At City Ballet, however, the feeling for many in the audience is not simple. In the many ballets made for it by its founder-choreographer, , women are glorified, shown as extraordinarily free and decisive, seldom content to be dependent on a man even in a loving relationship. Robert Gottlieb, in his 2004 biography of Balanchine, recalls a remark in which Balanchine, late in his life, said that Peter Martins “had to be” his successor, because he had the right understanding of what a ballerina needed. But in 1988 Mr. Martins dramatized a Jack-the-Ripper situation in his ballet “Tanzspiel” (based, it was widely said, on the Central Park murder by Robert Chambers), in which the hero kills the heroine. For the next aspect of the gasp factor at City Ballet, you must speak of offstage matters, notably the 1992 incident in which Mr. Martins was arrested on charges of assaulting his wife, the ballerina Darci Kistler. The charges against him were dropped, and I would hesitate to raise this ghost had it not recently been resurrected by Martin Duberman’s new biography of Lincoln Kirstein, which reveals how Mr. Martins nearly lost his job, and how Kirstein, City Ballet’s co-founder, telephoned Mr. Martins “to say that if there was ever again such an incident, he’d never again speak to him.” And I don’t doubt that some people in the City Ballet audience assume that history is repeating itself when Lord Capulet hits his daughter center-stage. Just look at what happens onstage here, however. While the father strikes the child, the mother turns away in dismay and shields her eyes. After a moment of stillness in which his violence registers, she walks around him, looking ruefully into his face (as if to say, “Can’t you control yourself?”), and goes to console her daughter. This mother, Lady Capulet, who has to put up with the violence and temper of the Capulet men throughout, is played by none other than Ms. Kistler; and this “Romeo” is presented in a season dedicated to none other than Kirstein. I assume that Mr. Martins is an artist aware enough of his reputation to know what associations Lord Capulet’s gesture will provoke in the New York State Theater: not just gasps but memories. And I assume too that he means Lady Capulet’s behavior to come as some kind of reproof to male violence; that, in staging this “Romeo” in a Kirstein season, he is publicly assuring those who remember Kirstein that, though violence to women happens, it is regrettable and, in this case, a crucial part of a tragedy. But Jock Soto as Lord Capulet isn’t convincing or even lucid, so that the slap is a startling break in a performance generally marked by vague bluster. Conversely, Ms. Kistler’s reaction as Lady Capulet lacks force. Instead, my mind goes back to the end of this same scene in Frederick Ashton’s version of “Romeo” as seen in 1989, in London and New York, with the great actress-ballerina Lynn Seymour playing Juliet’s mother. As her husband swept out of the room after his furious threats at his daughter, she simply followed, helpless, in his wake, but stopped for a moment to look at both Juliet and the Nurse. Just a look, but powerfully loaded with regret and acutely timed, as if to say: “These men! — and we women — and alas!” Next Article in Arts (3 of 14) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Brooklyn Girl, 9, Dies After Fight With Another Girl at Her School DANCE VIEW; CHOREOGRAPHIC VIOLENCE MAY BE GETTING OUT OF HAND Next Article in Arts (3 of 14) &#x00bb; The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/12/arts/dance/12viol.html	A Slap Echoing Beyond the Stage - New York Times A Slap Echoing Beyond the Stage Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 12, 2007 At each performance of New York City Ballet ’s new “Romeo and Juliet,” numerous members of the audience gasp aloud in shock at the moment when Lord Capulet knocks his daughter to the ground with a highly audible slap. The slap occurs onstage; then, like an echo, the gasp occurs in the auditorium. Juliet’s parents, unaware that she has already married Romeo, have come to tell her to marry Paris, and she refuses. In Lord Capulet calls his daughter “young baggage! Disobedient wretch!” and adds, “My fingers itch.” But, itch notwithstanding, he doesn’t hit her in the text or in any other “Romeo” I’ve seen in theater, ballet, opera or film. For many viewers this moment blights the choreographer ’s City Ballet production. For some, moreover, it connects to other recent presentations of violence against women onstage, especially the huge furor surrounding the graphic video of the R&B artist Akon forcefully and sexually thrusting himself against a young female dance partner (who later proved to be underage and a minister’s daughter) in front of an audience. Actually, the forms of violence employed toward women by Akon and by this Lord Capulet fall into quite separate aesthetic-moral categories. But there are reasons why Mr. Martins’s “Romeo” seems to overlap the categories, and why this slap leaves a disproportionately awkward aftertaste. Akon’s act, both spontaneous and a piece of performance, and widely seen in the last week on YouTube, was primarily sexual. I don’t condone it, but really it’s an extreme example of the kind of showy, aggressive dance presentation of male-female sex that has been around for a few decades. Pop music videos are full of it. Balletgoers saw it in the (brilliant) let’s-make-love-before-we-kill-ourselves erotic duets of Kenneth MacMillan’s three-act “Mayerling,” new for the in London in 1978 and seen on at least three tours of America; and in the heterosexual masochism dramatized by ’s “Love Songs” widely danced in America in the mid-1980s by the Joffrey Ballet. Modern-dance-goers saw it in the more intense duets of ’s “Nine Sinatra Songs” (1982), an enduringly popular work, but controversial enough in its early days for to shout from the audience, “No more rape!” Moviegoers saw a lyrical version of it in “Dirty Dancing” (1987), in those steamy contact duets in excelsis between a once-innocent young girl and her mature dance instructor. I can’t help suspecting that Akon’s teenage partner felt that she was starring in what you might call “Son of Dirty Dancing.” Any critic of the performing arts must report on such acts when they occur onstage. I think of Janacek’s invariably moving opera “Jenufa” (performed at the Met this season), in which the heroine is physically abused by Laca, leaving a permanent scar on her face, while she is emotionally abused by his half-brother Steva, who will make no public acknowledgment of his paternity of her child; I suspect that if “Jenufa” were performed as a spoken play, the way in which Jenufa settles for Laca, claiming that his violence against her is only part of his greater love, would be unacceptable. Such, though, is Janacek’s music in his finale that we more than go along with her: we find them both enthrallingly large-spirited. Then there is the Rodgers and Hammerstein musical “Carousel” (1945), still astonishing in the emotional delicacy with which it treats a story of physical abuse in marriage. Lord Capulet in the City Ballet “Romeo” is a relatively simple character. At City Ballet, however, the feeling for many in the audience is not simple. In the many ballets made for it by its founder-choreographer, , women are glorified, shown as extraordinarily free and decisive, seldom content to be dependent on a man even in a loving relationship. Robert Gottlieb, in his 2004 biography of Balanchine, recalls a remark in which Balanchine, late in his life, said that Peter Martins “had to be” his successor, because he had the right understanding of what a ballerina needed. But in 1988 Mr. Martins dramatized a Jack-the-Ripper situation in his ballet “Tanzspiel” (based, it was widely said, on the Central Park murder by Robert Chambers), in which the hero kills the heroine. For the next aspect of the gasp factor at City Ballet, you must speak of offstage matters, notably the 1992 incident in which Mr. Martins was arrested on charges of assaulting his wife, the ballerina Darci Kistler. The charges against him were dropped, and I would hesitate to raise this ghost had it not recently been resurrected by Martin Duberman’s new biography of Lincoln Kirstein, which reveals how Mr. Martins nearly lost his job, and how Kirstein, City Ballet’s co-founder, telephoned Mr. Martins “to say that if there was ever again such an incident, he’d never again speak to him.” And I don’t doubt that some people in the City Ballet audience assume that history is repeating itself when Lord Capulet hits his daughter center-stage. Just look at what happens onstage here, however. While the father strikes the child, the mother turns away in dismay and shields her eyes. After a moment of stillness in which his violence registers, she walks around him, looking ruefully into his face (as if to say, “Can’t you control yourself?”), and goes to console her daughter. This mother, Lady Capulet, who has to put up with the violence and temper of the Capulet men throughout, is played by none other than Ms. Kistler; and this “Romeo” is presented in a season dedicated to none other than Kirstein. I assume that Mr. Martins is an artist aware enough of his reputation to know what associations Lord Capulet’s gesture will provoke in the New York State Theater: not just gasps but memories. And I assume too that he means Lady Capulet’s behavior to come as some kind of reproof to male violence; that, in staging this “Romeo” in a Kirstein season, he is publicly assuring those who remember Kirstein that, though violence to women happens, it is regrettable and, in this case, a crucial part of a tragedy. But Jock Soto as Lord Capulet isn’t convincing or even lucid, so that the slap is a startling break in a performance generally marked by vague bluster. Conversely, Ms. Kistler’s reaction as Lady Capulet lacks force. Instead, my mind goes back to the end of this same scene in Frederick Ashton’s version of “Romeo” as seen in 1989, in London and New York, with the great actress-ballerina Lynn Seymour playing Juliet’s mother. As her husband swept out of the room after his furious threats at his daughter, she simply followed, helpless, in his wake, but stopped for a moment to look at both Juliet and the Nurse. Just a look, but powerfully loaded with regret and acutely timed, as if to say: “These men! — and we women — and alas!” Next Article in Arts (3 of 14) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Brooklyn Girl, 9, Dies After Fight With Another Girl at Her School DANCE VIEW; CHOREOGRAPHIC VIOLENCE MAY BE GETTING OUT OF HAND Next Article in Arts (3 of 14) &#x00bb; The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/pages/arts/index.html?partner=rssnyt	Arts - New York Times Built to Last, and Lasting Michael Hanson for The New York Times The Hale County Animal Shelter, one of the projects created by Auburn University&#146;s Rural Studio. Auburn University’s Rural Studio program is still about hands-on projects using any items hands can be gotten on. Getty Moves Closer to Returning an Ancient Statue to Italy The 2,400-year-old statue of the goddess Aphrodite is one of the J. Paul Getty Museum’s most prized artifacts and it might have been illegally excavated in southern Italy. Theater Review | Stairway to Paradise Mining a Rich Vein of Sequins in Revues The radiant surprise of “Stairway to Paradise,” which runs through Monday at City Center, is how much fresher it feels than contemporary Broadway blockbusters that use more recent pop songbooks. A Slap Echoing Beyond the Stage At each performance of New York City Ballet’s new “Romeo and Juliet,” numerous members of the audience gasp aloud in shock at a violent moment onstage. She Carries Weapons; They Are Called Words Mohja Kakf, a poet and professor, walks the tightrope between her Arab American worlds. Live From Washington, Opera for the College Crowd By DANIEL J. WAKIN The Washington National Opera launches a plan to bring opera into the schools. Radio Hosts Lose a Sponsor After a Routine About Rape Trojan condoms is the second advertiser in a week to pull advertising from the “Opie & Anthony” show following a conversation about an imagined sexual assault of Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice. At 80, He’s Hardly Done Talking, or Performing Charles Rosen keeps his repertory fresh by continuing to “experiment in public.” Music Review | Dulce Pontes A New Style for Portugal’s Old Fado, but the Songs Are Still Full of Emotion Dulce Pontes brought quintessential Portuguese fado singing, with long-breathed swoops and tempestuous dynamic surges, to Carnegie Hall on Thursday. Music Review | Jordi Savall Soft Sounds, Subtle Shadings: What Would Have Been on Louis XIV’s iPod Viola da gamba virtuoso Jordi Savall brought music fit for the ears of kings to the Metropolitan Museum of Art on Wednesday. Aspen isn’t laughing, rebirth in Lebanon for conductor Riccardo Muti, Francis Ford Coppola’s comeback and more culture news. No Rain or Love, Till a Guy Promises Both Disillusioned Diva With Glimmers of Soul Melly Still on ‘Coram Boy’ Music Review: Bringing a Touch of Jazz Even to Familiar Pop Songs Movie Review | "Delta Farce": War on Terror Takes a Detour You Go to a Fight, and a Boston Pops Concert Breaks Out Puffing Away That PG Rating 'Animal, Vegetable, Miracle,' by Barbara Kingsolver: Because It’s Good for You, That’s Why Art Review | International Fine Art Fair: Intimate Nooks Filled With Unexpected Treasures Dance Review | Urban Bush Women: Channeling Group Dynamics Fueled by the Power of Funk Music Review | Lisa Gerrard: The Somber Sound of Nondenominational Mysticism Music Review | Anat Cohen Quartet: A Musical World Traveler Who Likes to Mix Things Up Theater Review | 'Couples': Blissful and Benighted: Dispatches From the War of the Sexes Spare Times: For Children Movie Review | 'Casting About': The Cold Male Gaze Movie Review | 'Duck': A Sense of Purpose Takes Flight Movie Review | 'The Hip Hop Project': Beats With a Meaning Movie Review | 'The Salon': Cutting Hair and Cutting Remarks Movie Review | 'ShowBusiness': The Broad Scope of Broadway Movie Review | 'Provoked': Revisiting the True Story of a Battered Wife’s Revenge Movie Review | 'The Ex': Chasing an Old Flame, Taking No Prisoners Movie Review | 'Disappearances': Realism, Both Magic and Downright Mean Movie Review | 'Georgia Rule': Hey, California Girl, Don’t Mess With Grandma Inside Art: Guggenheim Foundation Takes Steps to Preserve Its Artistic Legacy Harlem’s Cultural Anchor in a Sea of Ideas Kirstein’s Lust for Art and Artists Feeling the Burn, and the Triumph, After Some Gritty Labors The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies A Loving Look at a Cinematic Tough Guy: Gangster, Hit Man, Gunslinger Radio Hosts Lose a Sponsor After a Routine About Rape A Charm School Teaching a Lot More Than Manners Nature, Nature, Burning Bright (High-Def Cameras Frame Thy Fearful Symmetry) from the past 7 days enter keyword or date e.g. April 21, 2001 A Charm School Teaching a Lot More Than Manners VH1’s fizzy “Flavor of Love Girls: Charm School Starring Mo’Nique” emphasizes strength as much as delicacy and decorum. Classic Jazz With No Frills or Preening With jazz singer Karrin Allyson, who performed last week at Birdland, there is never any nonsense and what you hear is what you get. Who uses YouTube? People like paul99503. Go to Blog » The Times's pop music critics discuss the latest albums and music events of the week. Download an MP3 Version Find your comprehensive television listings with this Longer editions of selected event listings in the New York area this week are now available online. The Week in Arts Where Are All the Black Swans? Speaking Love With Kurt and Lotte May 6 - May 12 FIND IT IN NYC MOST POPULAR - ARTS Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Music: Off the Beaten Beat Harlem&#8217;s Cultural Anchor in a Sea of Ideas Video Games: Finding Fellowship (Hairy Feet Optional) Film: A Loving Look at a Cinematic Tough Guy: Gangster, Hit Man, Gunslinger Movie Review | 'Georgia Rule': Hey, California Girl, Don&#8217;t Mess With Grandma Books of the Times: Because It&#8217;s Good for You, That&#8217;s Why Nature, Nature, Burning Bright (High-Def Cameras Frame Thy Fearful Symmetry) Art Review | 'Poiret: King of Fashion': What to Wear to a Revolution Built to Last, and Lasting Go to Complete List » Hush, Mama, Don't You Cry, A New Yellow Wiggle Will Sing Go to Complete List » Ewan McGregor Earns Minimum Wage As Iago Helsinki Braces for Eurovision Song Contest Final Imus Producer: Sharpton a 'Race - Baiter' Japan's WWII "Kamikaze" Film Sparks Talk of Peace Los Angeles Police Arrest the Game Kooper, Redding Inducted Into RockWalk The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics What’s new on Broadway? Buy, sell or rent a home. Looking to buy a new car? Get closer to film, music, art and plays. $3.15 a week. Post a job online today! Tell us your nursing story. Inspiration & lessons. The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/pages/arts/index.html?partner=rssnyt	Arts - New York Times Built to Last, and Lasting Michael Hanson for The New York Times The Hale County Animal Shelter, one of the projects created by Auburn University&#146;s Rural Studio. Auburn University’s Rural Studio program is still about hands-on projects using any items hands can be gotten on. Getty Moves Closer to Returning an Ancient Statue to Italy The 2,400-year-old statue of the goddess Aphrodite is one of the J. Paul Getty Museum’s most prized artifacts and it might have been illegally excavated in southern Italy. Theater Review | Stairway to Paradise Mining a Rich Vein of Sequins in Revues The radiant surprise of “Stairway to Paradise,” which runs through Monday at City Center, is how much fresher it feels than contemporary Broadway blockbusters that use more recent pop songbooks. A Slap Echoing Beyond the Stage At each performance of New York City Ballet’s new “Romeo and Juliet,” numerous members of the audience gasp aloud in shock at a violent moment onstage. She Carries Weapons; They Are Called Words Mohja Kakf, a poet and professor, walks the tightrope between her Arab American worlds. Live From Washington, Opera for the College Crowd By DANIEL J. WAKIN The Washington National Opera launches a plan to bring opera into the schools. Radio Hosts Lose a Sponsor After a Routine About Rape Trojan condoms is the second advertiser in a week to pull advertising from the “Opie & Anthony” show following a conversation about an imagined sexual assault of Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice. At 80, He’s Hardly Done Talking, or Performing Charles Rosen keeps his repertory fresh by continuing to “experiment in public.” Music Review | Dulce Pontes A New Style for Portugal’s Old Fado, but the Songs Are Still Full of Emotion Dulce Pontes brought quintessential Portuguese fado singing, with long-breathed swoops and tempestuous dynamic surges, to Carnegie Hall on Thursday. Music Review | Jordi Savall Soft Sounds, Subtle Shadings: What Would Have Been on Louis XIV’s iPod Viola da gamba virtuoso Jordi Savall brought music fit for the ears of kings to the Metropolitan Museum of Art on Wednesday. Aspen isn’t laughing, rebirth in Lebanon for conductor Riccardo Muti, Francis Ford Coppola’s comeback and more culture news. No Rain or Love, Till a Guy Promises Both Disillusioned Diva With Glimmers of Soul Melly Still on ‘Coram Boy’ Music Review: Bringing a Touch of Jazz Even to Familiar Pop Songs Movie Review | "Delta Farce": War on Terror Takes a Detour You Go to a Fight, and a Boston Pops Concert Breaks Out Puffing Away That PG Rating 'Animal, Vegetable, Miracle,' by Barbara Kingsolver: Because It’s Good for You, That’s Why Art Review | International Fine Art Fair: Intimate Nooks Filled With Unexpected Treasures Dance Review | Urban Bush Women: Channeling Group Dynamics Fueled by the Power of Funk Music Review | Lisa Gerrard: The Somber Sound of Nondenominational Mysticism Music Review | Anat Cohen Quartet: A Musical World Traveler Who Likes to Mix Things Up Theater Review | 'Couples': Blissful and Benighted: Dispatches From the War of the Sexes Spare Times: For Children Movie Review | 'Casting About': The Cold Male Gaze Movie Review | 'Duck': A Sense of Purpose Takes Flight Movie Review | 'The Hip Hop Project': Beats With a Meaning Movie Review | 'The Salon': Cutting Hair and Cutting Remarks Movie Review | 'ShowBusiness': The Broad Scope of Broadway Movie Review | 'Provoked': Revisiting the True Story of a Battered Wife’s Revenge Movie Review | 'The Ex': Chasing an Old Flame, Taking No Prisoners Movie Review | 'Disappearances': Realism, Both Magic and Downright Mean Movie Review | 'Georgia Rule': Hey, California Girl, Don’t Mess With Grandma Inside Art: Guggenheim Foundation Takes Steps to Preserve Its Artistic Legacy Harlem’s Cultural Anchor in a Sea of Ideas Kirstein’s Lust for Art and Artists Feeling the Burn, and the Triumph, After Some Gritty Labors The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies A Loving Look at a Cinematic Tough Guy: Gangster, Hit Man, Gunslinger Radio Hosts Lose a Sponsor After a Routine About Rape A Charm School Teaching a Lot More Than Manners Nature, Nature, Burning Bright (High-Def Cameras Frame Thy Fearful Symmetry) from the past 7 days enter keyword or date e.g. April 21, 2001 A Charm School Teaching a Lot More Than Manners VH1’s fizzy “Flavor of Love Girls: Charm School Starring Mo’Nique” emphasizes strength as much as delicacy and decorum. Classic Jazz With No Frills or Preening With jazz singer Karrin Allyson, who performed last week at Birdland, there is never any nonsense and what you hear is what you get. Who uses YouTube? People like paul99503. Go to Blog » The Times's pop music critics discuss the latest albums and music events of the week. Download an MP3 Version Find your comprehensive television listings with this Longer editions of selected event listings in the New York area this week are now available online. The Week in Arts Where Are All the Black Swans? Speaking Love With Kurt and Lotte May 6 - May 12 FIND IT IN NYC MOST POPULAR - ARTS Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Music: Off the Beaten Beat Harlem&#8217;s Cultural Anchor in a Sea of Ideas Video Games: Finding Fellowship (Hairy Feet Optional) Film: A Loving Look at a Cinematic Tough Guy: Gangster, Hit Man, Gunslinger Movie Review | 'Georgia Rule': Hey, California Girl, Don&#8217;t Mess With Grandma Books of the Times: Because It&#8217;s Good for You, That&#8217;s Why Nature, Nature, Burning Bright (High-Def Cameras Frame Thy Fearful Symmetry) Art Review | 'Poiret: King of Fashion': What to Wear to a Revolution Built to Last, and Lasting Go to Complete List » Hush, Mama, Don't You Cry, A New Yellow Wiggle Will Sing Go to Complete List » Ewan McGregor Earns Minimum Wage As Iago Helsinki Braces for Eurovision Song Contest Final Imus Producer: Sharpton a 'Race - Baiter' Japan's WWII "Kamikaze" Film Sparks Talk of Peace Los Angeles Police Arrest the Game Kooper, Redding Inducted Into RockWalk The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics What’s new on Broadway? Buy, sell or rent a home. Looking to buy a new car? Get closer to film, music, art and plays. $3.15 a week. Post a job online today! Tell us your nursing story. Inspiration & lessons. The New York Times Company
