http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/us/11milk.html?ex=1336536000&en=579284b9d162b729&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Dairy Council to End Ad Campaign That Linked Drinking Milk With Weight Loss - New York Times Dairy Council to End Ad Campaign That Linked Drinking Milk With Weight Loss Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 A national advertising campaign that associates dairy products with weight loss will be curtailed because research does not support the claim, according to the Federal Trade Commission. The advertisements, conceived by the promotional arm of the dairy industry and overseen by the Agriculture Department, feature slogans like &#8220;Milk your . Lose weight!&#8221; and suggest that three servings of dairy products a day can help people be slim. The effort includes a campaign called &#8220;Body by Milk&#8221; that is aimed at teenagers. It features Alex Rodriguez, the third baseman for the New York Yankees, and Carrie Underwood, an &#8220;American Idol&#8221; winner. The assertion that there is a link between weight loss and dairy consumption has long been contested by the Physicians Committee for Responsible Medicine, an advocacy and research group that promotes a diet free of animal products. The group petitioned the F.T.C. in 2005 to argue that the advertisements were misleading. In a May 3 letter to the group, Lydia Parnes, director of the agency&#8217;s Bureau of Consumer Protection, said Agriculture Department representatives and milk producers and processors had agreed to change the advertisements and related marketing materials &#8220;until further research provides stronger, more conclusive evidence of an association between dairy consumption and weight loss.&#8221; As of Thursday, the National Dairy Council still had a section of its Web site devoted to the weight-loss claim. But the site, along with some of the advertisements, will be changed, said Greg Miller, who is executive vice president of the council and has a doctorate in nutrition. &#8220;Like any other marketing campaign, after time you want to freshen them up and give the consumers what&#8217;s new,&#8221; Mr. Miller said. &#8220;That&#8217;s what&#8217;s happening here.&#8221; Dr. Neal Barnard, president of the group that brought the matter to the F.T.C., said it would continue to press the dairy industry on other claims, which include the assertion that calcium helps prevent bone fractures in older women. &#8220;I think people will start to recognize that the dairy industry, which used to have a mom-and-pop image, is a huge commercial entity that will exaggerate to sell its products,&#8221; Dr. Barnard said. Mr. Miller said most medical professionals agreed that dairy contributed to overall bone health and could help people maintain a healthy weight. &#8220;I think there&#8217;s a minority of people out there that just have very loud voices,&#8221; he said. &#8220;This is a vegan group that doesn&#8217;t want anyone to eat dairy.&#8221; Dairy products were upgraded in the 2005 revision of federal dietary guidelines, which recommended that people consume more low-fat milk and dairy products. An advisory committee that helped set the guidelines cited a report, partly financed by the dairy industry, which found that low-fat dairy products did not necessarily add to weight gain and that dairy products have certain nutrients that can help consumers meet dietary recommendations. The guidelines increased the amount of low-fat or fat-free dairy products to three cups a day, up from two cups. The dairy council is allowed to continue to use wording from those guidelines that says adults and children should not avoid milk and milk products because of concerns that they may lead to weight gain, the letter from the F.T.C. said. Marion Nestle, a professor of nutrition at , said the agreement to modify the advertisements was groundbreaking. In her book, &#8220;What to Eat,&#8221; she argued that lobbying by the $50 billion dairy industry could sometimes cloud policy on nutrition. Though Ms. Nestle said she ate dairy products regularly and did not dispute their nutritional value, she said people could have a healthy diet without them. &#8220;Those ads were ridiculously misleading,&#8221; she said. More Articles in National &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. THE NATION; Thinning the Milk Does Not Mean Thinning the Child Bodegas Are Asked by Health Officials to Help Push a Better Diet in Poorer Neighborhoods ADVERTISING; Chug Milk, Shed Pounds? Not So Fast PERSONAL HEALTH; Of Mice, Men and 'Magic' Diet Supplements More Articles in National &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/pages/health/index.html	Health News - New York Times Mental Health & Behavior Electric Pulses, Instead of Shocks, Can Help Heart Patients Many heart patients who believe that their lives have been saved by shocks from implanted defibrillators could have survived without the jolt, new research shows. Passage of Drug Safety Bill Was Common Goal for Two Very Different Senators By ROBERT PEAR and GARDINER HARRIS Senators Edward M. Kennedy and Michael B. Enzi worked together in an unusual display of bipartisanship to make the bill passable. F.D.A. Panel Seeks Limits on Cancer Patient Drugs Bowing to safety concerns, government medical advisers urged on Thursday that additional restrictions be put on the use of drugs that treat anemia in cancer patients. Dairy Council to End Ad Campaign That Linked Drinking Milk With Weight Loss A national advertising campaign that associates dairy products with weight loss will be curtailed because research does not support the claim. Contaminated Water in Queens Is a Repeat Performance The area where city officials found an industrial chemical in the drinking water last week has had problems with contamination by the same chemical for several years. Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry’s Role By GARDINER HARRIS, BENEDICT CAREY and JANET ROBERTS The intersection of money and medicine has become one of the most contentious issues in psychiatry. Senate Approves Tighter Policing of Drug Makers The bill would give the F.D.A. new power to police drug safety, order changes in labels and regulate ads. Legislators Ask to Revise Plan for Hospitals Leaders of the State Legislature said that they wanted Gov. Eliot Spitzer to reconsider a plan approved last year to close, merge or shrink dozens of hospitals across the state. Doctors Reap Millions for Anemia Drugs The DNA Age: Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Massachusetts Proposes Stem Cell Research Grants Chinese Company Linked to Deaths Wasn’t Licensed Clinton Foundation Announces a Bargain on Generic AIDS Drugs Advertising: Telling Dieters a Pill Works Only if They Work, Too Jury Is Still Out on Gluten, the Latest Dietary Villain Study Links Rescuers’ Lung Ailment to Trade Center Collapse Personal Health: Deciphering the Results of a Prostate Test Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Cases: The Struggle to Move Beyond ‘Why Me?’ Really? : The Claim: Aspirin Can Reduce the Risk of Alzheimer’s Disease Essay: A Moment of Revelation, Preserved in a Test Stick Study Suggests Meditation Can Help Train Attention China Tells Little About Illness That Kills Pigs, Officials Say Vital Signs: Adolescence: No Link to Promiscuity Found in Youths Using Condoms Vital Signs: Patterns: Early Menarche Linked to Heavier Children Vital Signs: Child Care: Regular Television Time Starts for Many at 3 Months Vital Signs: At Risk: Study Shows Flu Season Increases Heart Ailments Report on Child Deaths Finds Some Hope in Poorest Nations Johnson & Johnson Won’t Seek Approval for a Heart Stent Energy Drink Is Withdrawn Over Concerns About Name : Going Against the Flow A birth control pill designed to eliminate the monthly period may hit the market soon. : Choosing Hip Resurfacing Keith McDonald underwent hip resurfacing surgery, a newer alternative to total hip replacement. : A Persistent Problem Keith Orr's story illustrates the reasons that heart disease still kills more Americans than any other disease. The Yoga Therapist Will See You Now A Healthy Mix of Rest and Motion Methods Used by Insurers Are Questioned Small Businesses’ Premiums Soar After Illness MENTAL HEALTH & BEHAVIOR» Stress on Troops Adds to U.S. Hurdles in Iraq Depression Raises Risk of Diabetes, Study Finds Some parents of children with Down syndrome want prospective parents to know the positive side of raising a child with the genetic condition. The Yoga Therapist Will See You Now Are one-on-one yoga classes effective physical therapy? Blogging for Truth and Beauty Dr. Robert Oliver Jr., a plastic surgeon in Birmingham, Ala., started his blog plasticsurgery101.blogspot, and has used it to question everything from so-called fat-melting injections to implants. Jane Brody, "Personal Health" columnist, discusses the latest health news. Sports of The Times Stealth Killer Puts Doctor on Mission With N.F.L. For the past four years, Dr. Arthur Roberts, a record-setting pass-slinger at Columbia, has been studying football’s struggle against cardiovascular disease. A user's guide to diagnostic tests. What you need to know about procedures and diagnoses for six major diseases. Go to Special Section » News from AP &#x00bb; FDA Panel Wants More Anemia Drug Studies FTC Says Milk Ads Under Fire Are Ending DIET: Thin People May Be Fat Inside Milk Ads Under Fire Are Ending DIET: Thin People May Be Fat Inside Merck Problem Means Extra Shot for Kids Browse All Health Topics Select a Health Topic Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS) Dietary Supplements and Herbal Remedies Food Contamination and Poisoning Human Papilloma Virus (HPV) Mental Health and Disorders Post Traumatic Stress Disorder SARS (Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome) Seasonal Affective Disorder (SAD) Sexually Transmitted Diseases (STDs) Sudden Infant Death Syndrome Suicides and Suicide Attempts Health & Fitness Tools What's your score? » Calorie Calculator for Goal Weight What's your limit? » MOST POPULAR - HEALTH Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside F.D.A. Panel Seeks Limits on Cancer Patient Drugs Electric Pulses, Instead of Shocks, Can Help Heart Patients Jury Is Still Out on Gluten, the Latest Dietary Villain Study Suggests Meditation Can Help Train Attention Personal Health: Deciphering the Results of a Prostate Test Cases: The Struggle to Move Beyond &#8216;Why Me?&#8217; Vital Signs: Child Care: Regular Television Time Starts for Many at 3 Months Chemotherapy Fog Is No Longer Ignored as Illusion Go to Complete List » Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Psychiatrists, Troubled Children and Drug Industry's Role Child Care: Regular Television Time Starts for Many at 3 Months The Struggle to Move Beyond â€˜Why Me?' Adolescence: No Link to Promiscuity Found in Youths Using Condoms Epilepsy Drug Can Increase Risk for Newborns, Study Says Go to Complete List » Everything you need to know about heart disease Hip resurfacing: is it right for you? The changing attitudes towards "chemo brain" Treating the awkward years Start your 30-day free trial of Times Reader today. Photos, fine art, books and more. Be Prepared. For Your Major Purchase. Which gadget is getting all the buzz? Buy, sell or rent a home. Tell us your nursing story. Inspiration & lessons. The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/health/10psyche.html	Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role - New York Times Mental Health & Behavior Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry’s Role Fabrizio Costantini for The New York Times Anya Bailey is among a growing number of children given antipsychotic drugs by doctors who are paid by the makers of those drugs. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This By GARDINER HARRIS, BENEDICT CAREY and JANET ROBERTS Published: May 10, 2007 When Anya Bailey developed an after her 12th birthday, her mother took her to a psychiatrist at the who prescribed a powerful antipsychotic drug called Risperdal. Skip to next paragraph The New York Times , Risperdal is not approved to treat eating disorders, but increased appetite is a common side effect and doctors may prescribe drugs as they see fit. Anya gained weight but within two years developed a crippling knot in her back. She now receives regular injections of Botox to unclench her back muscles. She often awakens crying in pain. Isabella Bailey, Anya’s mother, said she had no idea that children might be especially susceptible to Risperdal’s side effects. Nor did she know that Risperdal and similar medicines were not approved at the time to treat children, or that medical trials often cited to justify the use of such drugs had as few as eight children taking the drug by the end. Just as surprising, Ms. Bailey said, was learning that the university psychiatrist who supervised Anya’s care received more than $7,000 from 2003 to 2004 from Johnson & Johnson, Risperdal’s maker, in return for lectures about one of the company’s drugs. Doctors, including Anya Bailey’s, maintain that payments from drug companies do not influence what they prescribe for patients. But the intersection of money and medicine, and its effect on the well-being of patients, has become one of the most contentious issues in health care. Nowhere is that more true than in psychiatry, where increasing payments to doctors have coincided with the growing use in children of a relatively new class of drugs known as atypical antipsychotics. These best-selling drugs, including Risperdal, Seroquel, Zyprexa, Abilify and Geodon, are now being prescribed to more than half a million children in the United States to help parents deal with behavior problems despite profound risks and almost no approved uses for minors. A New York Times analysis of records in Minnesota, the only state that requires public reports of all drug company marketing payments to doctors, provides rare documentation of how financial relationships between doctors and drug makers correspond to the growing use of atypicals in children. From 2000 to 2005, drug maker payments to Minnesota psychiatrists rose more than sixfold, to $1.6 million. During those same years, prescriptions of antipsychotics for children in Minnesota’s Medicaid program rose more than ninefold. Those who took the most money from makers of atypicals tended to prescribe the drugs to children the most often, the data suggest. On average, Minnesota psychiatrists who received at least $5,000 from atypical makers from 2000 to 2005 appear to have written three times as many atypical prescriptions for children as psychiatrists who received less or no money. The Times analysis focused on prescriptions written for about one-third of Minnesota’s Medicaid population, almost all of whom are disabled. Some doctors were misidentified by pharmacists, but the information provides a rough guide to prescribing patterns in the state. Drug makers underwrite decision makers at every level of care. They pay doctors who prescribe and recommend drugs, teach about the underlying diseases, perform studies and write guidelines that other doctors often feel bound to follow. But studies present strong evidence that financial interests can affect decisions, often without people knowing it. In Minnesota, psychiatrists collected more money from drug makers from 2000 to 2005 than doctors in any other specialty. Total payments to individual psychiatrists ranged from $51 to more than $689,000, with a median of $1,750. Since the records are incomplete, these figures probably underestimate doctors’ actual incomes. Such payments could encourage psychiatrists to use drugs in ways that endanger patients’ physical health, said Dr. Steven E. Hyman, the provost of and former director of the National Institute of Mental Health. The growing use of atypicals in children is the most troubling example of this, Dr. Hyman said. “There’s an irony that psychiatrists ask patients to have insights into themselves, but we don’t connect the wires in our own lives about how money is affecting our profession and putting our patients at risk,” he said. Anya Bailey is a 15-year-old high school freshman from East Grand Forks, Minn., with pictures of the actor Chad Michael Murray on her bedroom wall. She has constant discomfort in her neck that leads her to twist it in a birdlike fashion. Last year, a boy mimicked her in the lunch room. “The first time, I laughed it off,” Anya said. “I said: ‘That’s so funny. I think I’ll laugh with you.’ Then it got annoying, and I decided to hide it. I don’t want to be made fun of.” Now she slumps when seated at school to pressure her clenched muscles, she said. It all began in 2003 when Anya became dangerously thin. “Nothing tasted good to her,” Ms. Bailey said. This article is by Gardiner Harris, Benedict Carey and Janet Roberts. Next Article in Health (3 of 15) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Johnson & Johnson Inc Next Article in Health (3 of 15) &#x00bb; Everything you need to know about heart disease Hip resurfacing: is it right for you? The changing attitudes towards "chemo brain" Treating the awkward years Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/health/11heartweb.html	Electric Pulses, Instead of Shocks, Can Help Heart Patients - New York Times Mental Health & Behavior Electric Pulses, Instead of Shocks, Can Help Heart Patients Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 DENVER, May 10 — Many heart patients who believe that their lives have been saved by shocks from implanted could have survived without a jolt from the devices, according to research presented here today at a meeting of heart specialists. The devices can safely be programmed instead to rely on pacemaking features, which deliver a stream of electric pulses that patients do not feel, in many situations where they currently deliver the shocks, the study concluded. In fact, the data suggested that programming the devices to ignore some irregularities in a patient’s heartbeat and thus to deliver shocks less frequently might actually save lives. The study comes on top of well-known data that 80 percent or more of the patients who receive the defibrillators as protection against a seizure never need a shock. Now, with the new study concluding that even when the devices are thought to be saving lives they might be doing so in an unnecessarily harsh way, doctors are likely to be more worried than ever about their inability to figure out when patients truly need the devices and how best to use them. “A lot of these shocks should be classified as inappropriate,” said Dr. Bruce L. Wilkoff, a defibrillator expert from the Cleveland Clinic Foundation who was the lead investigator and who presented the study results. Commenting on the lower death rate in the group of 700 patients whose devices were programmed to give shocks in fewer situations, Dr. Wilkoff said the difference was not statistically significant enough to ensure that the study’s approach was safer. But the trends in the data raised questions about whether unnecessary shocks weaken hearts in ways that raise the risks of death or hospitalization, he said. The new study was sponsored by Medtronic, the leading manufacturer of implanted defibrillators. It reflected the struggle among doctors to figure out the best uses of the expensive defibrillators. Other studies presented at the meeting explored specialized stress tests and minute differences in the behavior of hearts that might pinpoint which patients are most at risk of sudden cardiac arrest if they do not get defibrillators. The devices, which consist of a pocket-watch-size generator implanted in the chest and one to three leads inserted into the heart, cost as much as $50,000 to implant. Major clinical trials have shown that hundreds of thousands of Americans annually suffer from heart conditions — mainly a sharply reduced capacity to pump blood — that put them at risk for the kinds of breakdowns the defibrillators are designed to manage. Doctors believe that thousands of lives have been saved by the devices and that they should be more widely used. But the inability to figure out which patients are most at risk has slowed growth in the market, which was also hit in 2005 by news of malfunctions linked to a handful of deaths. Guidant, the manufacturer of the deadly devices, compounded the negative reaction by failing to disclose the problems promptly. Not all of the research reported here was weighty. The Heart Rhythm Society, the medical group that runs the annual meeting, also highlighted a small study by a Michigan high school student demonstrating that iPods can disrupt some functions of standard pacemakers when they are placed in a shirt pocket. The biggest impact among the 100 patients tested was a case in which the iPod caused the pacemaker to skip a few beats. Jay Thaker, the 17 year-old student who came up with the idea for the study, worked at with Dr. Krit Jongnarangsin, who has since moved to the The study was the first to focus on portable music players but did not surprise anyone at the meeting because of numerous studies in the past showing that other devices like cell phones have similar effects. Patients who get implants are routinely warned about exposure to a wide range of consumer electronics, airport screening machines and other devices that generate electromagnetic fields. Next Article in Health (1 of 15) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. U.S. Approves Improvements For Implants Defibrillator Maker Props Up Stress Test Company Growing Debate As Doctors Train On New Devices TECHNOLOGY; U.S. Shields Doctor Data In Implants Next Article in Health (1 of 15) &#x00bb; Everything you need to know about heart disease Hip resurfacing: is it right for you? The changing attitudes towards "chemo brain" Treating the awkward years THE NEW YORK TIMES GUIDE TO ESSENTIAL KNOWLEDGE Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/nyregion/11water.html?ex=1336536000&en=0d37d2646ddc0bd9&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Contaminated Water in Queens Is a Repeat Performance - New York Times Contaminated Water in Queens Is a Repeat Performance Uli Seit for The New York Times Water lines being flushed out by the Department of Environmental Protection on Springfield Boulevard near 110th Avenue in Cambria Heights, Queens. Traces of tetrachloroethylene were found there last week. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 The area in Queens where city officials found an industrial chemical in the drinking water last week has had problems with contamination by the same chemical for several years. The chemical — tetrachloroethylene, which is commonly used by dry cleaners and auto repair shops — has been detected sporadically in the water in Cambria Heights, Hollis and St. Albans every year since at least 2003, according to the New York City Department of Environmental Protection’s annual reports of drinking water quality. Anne Canty, the department’s deputy commissioner, said that testing yesterday detected continuing contamination, though at somewhat lower concentrations. Ten of 26 recent samples still contained traces of the colorless chemical, which has a sharp, sweet odor and is also known as perc. According to the federal , people who drink water containing tetrachloroethylene over many years can develop liver problems and may have an increased risk of . In New York City, the chemical is also considered an airborne hazard because many dry cleaners are inside residential buildings where fumes can seep through ceilings and walls. The city’s Department of Health and Mental Hygiene does not consider the amount of tetrachloroethylene in the water a serious health problem. People who remain concerned have been told to use bottled water for cooking and drinking and to take shorter showers. The contamination was detected last week during routine water testing. The city is required to notify water users if the average level of the chemical detected in water exceeds 5 parts per billion. As testing continued this week, some readings were as high as 13 parts per billion, more than double the maximum safe level. But as of late yesterday, the average level of the chemical had dropped to 3.7 parts per billion. Most of New York City gets drinking water from reservoirs 100 or more miles away and has not had a problem with the dry cleaning chemicals. But a five-and-a-half-mile section of southeastern Queens, which includes the area where the contamination was found, is sometimes served by a system of wells that are 100 to 360 feet deep. The wells belonged to a private water company until they were taken over by the city in 1996. Many have become contaminated with a variety of pollutants, including tetrachloroethylene, and can no longer be used. In 2005, five wells were in use, providing the neighborhood’s 100,000 residents with 2.2 million gallons of water a day, about 1 percent of the total used citywide every day. The wells had to be shut in February after pumps failed. The city plans to build a treatment plant for the wells, but construction is not scheduled to begin before 2009. Officials said that despite the recurring problem, they believed that the contaminated water found this week did not come from wells. An analysis of the chemical content of water indicated that it came from the main water system, officials said. Ms. Canty said water quality experts suspected that the current problem began with a faulty valve that failed to keep a small amount of chemical discharge from backing up into the drinking water system. Inspectors had checked about 300 dry cleaners and auto repair shops by midday yesterday, but the source of contamination was not discovered. In the meantime, Ms. Canty said, hydrants in the area were being flushed and the city expected the problem to be cleared up in a few days. In 2003, at least one sample of the well water in Queens exceeded 17 parts per billion. In both 2004 and 2005, tetrachloroethylene was detected in several samples and sometimes exceeded the safe level. But advisories were not issued in either year because the average of at least two consecutive readings fell below 5 parts per billion. Next Article in New York Region (6 of 29) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: MEADOWMERE; Big-Time Resentments In a Tiny Pocket of Queens Ocean Dumping Is Ending, but Not Problems; New York Can't Ship, Bury or Burn Its Sludge, but No One Wants a Processing Plant Pact Reached To Save Water In New York Medical Waste Shuts Jacob Riis Park Beach Next Article in New York Region (6 of 29) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/nyregion/11water.html	Contaminated Water in Queens Is a Repeat Performance - New York Times Contaminated Water in Queens Is a Repeat Performance Uli Seit for The New York Times Water lines being flushed out by the Department of Environmental Protection on Springfield Boulevard near 110th Avenue in Cambria Heights, Queens. Traces of tetrachloroethylene were found there last week. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 The area in Queens where city officials found an industrial chemical in the drinking water last week has had problems with contamination by the same chemical for several years. The chemical — tetrachloroethylene, which is commonly used by dry cleaners and auto repair shops — has been detected sporadically in the water in Cambria Heights, Hollis and St. Albans every year since at least 2003, according to the New York City Department of Environmental Protection’s annual reports of drinking water quality. Anne Canty, the department’s deputy commissioner, said that testing yesterday detected continuing contamination, though at somewhat lower concentrations. Ten of 26 recent samples still contained traces of the colorless chemical, which has a sharp, sweet odor and is also known as perc. According to the federal , people who drink water containing tetrachloroethylene over many years can develop liver problems and may have an increased risk of . In New York City, the chemical is also considered an airborne hazard because many dry cleaners are inside residential buildings where fumes can seep through ceilings and walls. The city’s Department of Health and Mental Hygiene does not consider the amount of tetrachloroethylene in the water a serious health problem. People who remain concerned have been told to use bottled water for cooking and drinking and to take shorter showers. The contamination was detected last week during routine water testing. The city is required to notify water users if the average level of the chemical detected in water exceeds 5 parts per billion. As testing continued this week, some readings were as high as 13 parts per billion, more than double the maximum safe level. But as of late yesterday, the average level of the chemical had dropped to 3.7 parts per billion. Most of New York City gets drinking water from reservoirs 100 or more miles away and has not had a problem with the dry cleaning chemicals. But a five-and-a-half-mile section of southeastern Queens, which includes the area where the contamination was found, is sometimes served by a system of wells that are 100 to 360 feet deep. The wells belonged to a private water company until they were taken over by the city in 1996. Many have become contaminated with a variety of pollutants, including tetrachloroethylene, and can no longer be used. In 2005, five wells were in use, providing the neighborhood’s 100,000 residents with 2.2 million gallons of water a day, about 1 percent of the total used citywide every day. The wells had to be shut in February after pumps failed. The city plans to build a treatment plant for the wells, but construction is not scheduled to begin before 2009. Officials said that despite the recurring problem, they believed that the contaminated water found this week did not come from wells. An analysis of the chemical content of water indicated that it came from the main water system, officials said. Ms. Canty said water quality experts suspected that the current problem began with a faulty valve that failed to keep a small amount of chemical discharge from backing up into the drinking water system. Inspectors had checked about 300 dry cleaners and auto repair shops by midday yesterday, but the source of contamination was not discovered. In the meantime, Ms. Canty said, hydrants in the area were being flushed and the city expected the problem to be cleared up in a few days. In 2003, at least one sample of the well water in Queens exceeded 17 parts per billion. In both 2004 and 2005, tetrachloroethylene was detected in several samples and sometimes exceeded the safe level. But advisories were not issued in either year because the average of at least two consecutive readings fell below 5 parts per billion. Next Article in New York Region (6 of 29) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: MEADOWMERE; Big-Time Resentments In a Tiny Pocket of Queens Ocean Dumping Is Ending, but Not Problems; New York Can't Ship, Bury or Burn Its Sludge, but No One Wants a Processing Plant Pact Reached To Save Water In New York Medical Waste Shuts Jacob Riis Park Beach Next Article in New York Region (6 of 29) &#x00bb; A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Liberty Framed by World Trade Center, 1983 Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/washington/11fda.html?ex=1336536000&en=f8d09648edfc236a&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Passage of Drug Safety Bill Was Common Goal for Two Very Different Senators - New York Times Passage of Drug Safety Bill Was Common Goal for Two Very Different Senators Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 WASHINGTON, May 10 &#151; Legislation to beef up drug safety, passed by the Senate this week with only one dissenting vote, grew out of an extraordinary pact between two senators and a frantic effort by the pharmaceutical industry to avoid any disruption in the approval of new drugs. The bill would increase the fees paid by drug makers to help finance the work of the Food and Drug Administration and would give the agency new power to police company conduct. Industry lobbyists and executives said they supported the bill for one overriding reason: pink slips. Sometime this summer, if a bill has not passed, medical officers at the F.D.A. will start getting notices that they are in danger of being laid off by the end of the fiscal year on Sept. 30. Some of those officers are likely to be in the midst of reviewing new drug applications crucial to the future of drug makers. If those medical officers leave, drug approvals may be delayed &#151; a terrifying prospect for many companies. &#8220;The last thing we want is for F.D.A. employees to start thinking they may not have a job and start leaving,&#8221; said Alan R. Goldhammer, deputy vice president of Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America, a trade group for brand-name drug companies. In addition, many in the drug industry said they supported the bill because they believed that it would help restore public confidence in the nation&#8217;s drug supply. &#8220;There has been a loss of confidence in the F.D.A., and we can&#8217;t afford to have that,&#8221; said Dr. Joseph M. Feczko, Pfizer&#8217;s chief medical officer. &#8220;When our medicines come out, we want people to understand they have gone through a rigorous review process.&#8221; Under the bill, the F.D.A. could impose civil fines on companies that violated a drug safety plan or ran false or misleading advertisements. But major drug makers said they would comply with federal requirements, so the agency would not have reason to impose penalties on them. , Democrat of Massachusetts, was chief sponsor of the legislation, but Senator Michael B. Enzi, Republican of Wyoming, was equally responsible for its contents. In an unusual display of bipartisanship, they worked together to fend off amendments that would have made the bill unacceptable to the White House, raised the ire of the pharmaceutical industry or jeopardized chances for passage. &#8220;Kennedy and I have developed a trust,&#8221; Mr. Enzi said in an interview. &#8220;We don&#8217;t try to run over each other. We have a history of passing bills &#151; 27 signed by the president in the last two years.&#8221; An earlier version of the legislation was introduced by Mr. Enzi last August, when controlled Congress and he was chairman of the Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor and Pensions. When Democrats took control this year and Mr. Kennedy became chairman of the committee, he kept his compact with Mr. Enzi. Working together, they steered the legislation through the committee and the full Senate. Along the way, they accepted dozens of changes proposed by lawmakers of both parties. Mr. Enzi, an accountant and former owner of a shoe store, was mayor of Gillette, Wyo., and served 10 years in the State Legislature. His quiet manner could hardly differ more from that of Mr. Kennedy. Mr. Enzi is as conservative as Mr. Kennedy is liberal. But both are pragmatic legislative craftsmen. Mr. Enzi was recruited into politics by former Senator Alan K. Simpson, another Wyoming Republican who collaborated with Mr. Kennedy on many issues, including In an interview, Mr. Simpson said: &#8220;Mike is a legislator. He&#8217;s calm. He&#8217;s steady. He&#8217;s not a partisan kook or anything of that nature.&#8221; Mr. Simpson said Mr. Enzi and Mr. Kennedy had &#8220;a mutual admiration society, built on trust, respect and friendship, with none of the savage partisanship&#8221; found elsewhere in American politics. Mr. Enzi holds the Senate seat once held by Mr. Simpson and his father, Milward L. Simpson, who entered the Senate on the same day as Mr. Kennedy, Nov. 7, 1962. &#8220;Teddy loved my dad,&#8221; said Mr. Simpson, who nurtured the relationship between Mr. Enzi and Mr. Kennedy. , Republican of New Hampshire, voted against the drug safety bill in the committee, but worked with Mr. Kennedy and Mr. Enzi to make changes that won his support for the legislation on the floor. &#8220;There&#8217;s a Ted Kennedy who is quite flamboyant and partisan in the theater of the Senate,&#8221; Mr. Gregg said in an interview. &#8220;And there is a Ted Kennedy who is extremely bipartisan and willing to work with people in the back rooms of the Senate.&#8221; Industry officials breathed a huge sigh of relief when the Senate approved an amendment offered by Senator Thad Cochran, Republican of Mississippi, that would effectively maintain the current ban on imported drugs. Drug makers fiercely oppose efforts to legalize imports of lower-cost medicines from Canada and other countries. Having won that fight, drug company executives said, they decided not to fight other provisions that they saw as less threatening. &#8220;They need to pick their battles,&#8221; said Barbara Ryan, a pharmaceutical industry analyst at Deutsche Bank Securities. &#8220;Anything that doesn&#8217;t interfere with pricing and approvals is not going to hurt them seriously.&#8221; Still, many advocates, including some who support the bill&#8217;s passage, said the legislation was not the answer to the nation&#8217;s drug safety problems. &#8220;We have horrible leadership at the F.D.A., and they don&#8217;t even use the authorities they already have,&#8221; said Dr. Steven Nissen, chairman of the department of cardiovascular medicine at the Cleveland Clinic. More Articles in Washington &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Senate Vote Upholds Drug Import Limits Court Strikes Law Barring Sale of Drug Data Break Seen In Logjam Over Trade A State's Files Put Doctors' Ties To Drug Makers on Close View More Articles in Washington &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/health/10psyche.html?ex=1336449600&en=027f7583aa3fc3c4&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role - New York Times Mental Health & Behavior Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry’s Role Fabrizio Costantini for The New York Times Anya Bailey is among a growing number of children given antipsychotic drugs by doctors who are paid by the makers of those drugs. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This By GARDINER HARRIS, BENEDICT CAREY and JANET ROBERTS Published: May 10, 2007 When Anya Bailey developed an after her 12th birthday, her mother took her to a psychiatrist at the who prescribed a powerful antipsychotic drug called Risperdal. Skip to next paragraph The New York Times , Risperdal is not approved to treat eating disorders, but increased appetite is a common side effect and doctors may prescribe drugs as they see fit. Anya gained weight but within two years developed a crippling knot in her back. She now receives regular injections of Botox to unclench her back muscles. She often awakens crying in pain. Isabella Bailey, Anya’s mother, said she had no idea that children might be especially susceptible to Risperdal’s side effects. Nor did she know that Risperdal and similar medicines were not approved at the time to treat children, or that medical trials often cited to justify the use of such drugs had as few as eight children taking the drug by the end. Just as surprising, Ms. Bailey said, was learning that the university psychiatrist who supervised Anya’s care received more than $7,000 from 2003 to 2004 from Johnson & Johnson, Risperdal’s maker, in return for lectures about one of the company’s drugs. Doctors, including Anya Bailey’s, maintain that payments from drug companies do not influence what they prescribe for patients. But the intersection of money and medicine, and its effect on the well-being of patients, has become one of the most contentious issues in health care. Nowhere is that more true than in psychiatry, where increasing payments to doctors have coincided with the growing use in children of a relatively new class of drugs known as atypical antipsychotics. These best-selling drugs, including Risperdal, Seroquel, Zyprexa, Abilify and Geodon, are now being prescribed to more than half a million children in the United States to help parents deal with behavior problems despite profound risks and almost no approved uses for minors. A New York Times analysis of records in Minnesota, the only state that requires public reports of all drug company marketing payments to doctors, provides rare documentation of how financial relationships between doctors and drug makers correspond to the growing use of atypicals in children. From 2000 to 2005, drug maker payments to Minnesota psychiatrists rose more than sixfold, to $1.6 million. During those same years, prescriptions of antipsychotics for children in Minnesota’s Medicaid program rose more than ninefold. Those who took the most money from makers of atypicals tended to prescribe the drugs to children the most often, the data suggest. On average, Minnesota psychiatrists who received at least $5,000 from atypical makers from 2000 to 2005 appear to have written three times as many atypical prescriptions for children as psychiatrists who received less or no money. The Times analysis focused on prescriptions written for about one-third of Minnesota’s Medicaid population, almost all of whom are disabled. Some doctors were misidentified by pharmacists, but the information provides a rough guide to prescribing patterns in the state. Drug makers underwrite decision makers at every level of care. They pay doctors who prescribe and recommend drugs, teach about the underlying diseases, perform studies and write guidelines that other doctors often feel bound to follow. But studies present strong evidence that financial interests can affect decisions, often without people knowing it. In Minnesota, psychiatrists collected more money from drug makers from 2000 to 2005 than doctors in any other specialty. Total payments to individual psychiatrists ranged from $51 to more than $689,000, with a median of $1,750. Since the records are incomplete, these figures probably underestimate doctors’ actual incomes. Such payments could encourage psychiatrists to use drugs in ways that endanger patients’ physical health, said Dr. Steven E. Hyman, the provost of and former director of the National Institute of Mental Health. The growing use of atypicals in children is the most troubling example of this, Dr. Hyman said. “There’s an irony that psychiatrists ask patients to have insights into themselves, but we don’t connect the wires in our own lives about how money is affecting our profession and putting our patients at risk,” he said. Anya Bailey is a 15-year-old high school freshman from East Grand Forks, Minn., with pictures of the actor Chad Michael Murray on her bedroom wall. She has constant discomfort in her neck that leads her to twist it in a birdlike fashion. Last year, a boy mimicked her in the lunch room. “The first time, I laughed it off,” Anya said. “I said: ‘That’s so funny. I think I’ll laugh with you.’ Then it got annoying, and I decided to hide it. I don’t want to be made fun of.” Now she slumps when seated at school to pressure her clenched muscles, she said. It all began in 2003 when Anya became dangerously thin. “Nothing tasted good to her,” Ms. Bailey said. This article is by Gardiner Harris, Benedict Carey and Janet Roberts. Next Article in Health (3 of 15) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Johnson & Johnson Inc Next Article in Health (3 of 15) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » Everything you need to know about heart disease Hip resurfacing: is it right for you? The changing attitudes towards "chemo brain" Treating the awkward years Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/health/11heartweb.html?ex=1336536000&en=a6d34bf9f04bd9e0&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Electric Pulses, Instead of Shocks, Can Help Heart Patients - New York Times Mental Health & Behavior Electric Pulses, Instead of Shocks, Can Help Heart Patients Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 DENVER, May 10 — Many heart patients who believe that their lives have been saved by shocks from implanted could have survived without a jolt from the devices, according to research presented here today at a meeting of heart specialists. The devices can safely be programmed instead to rely on pacemaking features, which deliver a stream of electric pulses that patients do not feel, in many situations where they currently deliver the shocks, the study concluded. In fact, the data suggested that programming the devices to ignore some irregularities in a patient’s heartbeat and thus to deliver shocks less frequently might actually save lives. The study comes on top of well-known data that 80 percent or more of the patients who receive the defibrillators as protection against a seizure never need a shock. Now, with the new study concluding that even when the devices are thought to be saving lives they might be doing so in an unnecessarily harsh way, doctors are likely to be more worried than ever about their inability to figure out when patients truly need the devices and how best to use them. “A lot of these shocks should be classified as inappropriate,” said Dr. Bruce L. Wilkoff, a defibrillator expert from the Cleveland Clinic Foundation who was the lead investigator and who presented the study results. Commenting on the lower death rate in the group of 700 patients whose devices were programmed to give shocks in fewer situations, Dr. Wilkoff said the difference was not statistically significant enough to ensure that the study’s approach was safer. But the trends in the data raised questions about whether unnecessary shocks weaken hearts in ways that raise the risks of death or hospitalization, he said. The new study was sponsored by Medtronic, the leading manufacturer of implanted defibrillators. It reflected the struggle among doctors to figure out the best uses of the expensive defibrillators. Other studies presented at the meeting explored specialized stress tests and minute differences in the behavior of hearts that might pinpoint which patients are most at risk of sudden cardiac arrest if they do not get defibrillators. The devices, which consist of a pocket-watch-size generator implanted in the chest and one to three leads inserted into the heart, cost as much as $50,000 to implant. Major clinical trials have shown that hundreds of thousands of Americans annually suffer from heart conditions — mainly a sharply reduced capacity to pump blood — that put them at risk for the kinds of breakdowns the defibrillators are designed to manage. Doctors believe that thousands of lives have been saved by the devices and that they should be more widely used. But the inability to figure out which patients are most at risk has slowed growth in the market, which was also hit in 2005 by news of malfunctions linked to a handful of deaths. Guidant, the manufacturer of the deadly devices, compounded the negative reaction by failing to disclose the problems promptly. Not all of the research reported here was weighty. The Heart Rhythm Society, the medical group that runs the annual meeting, also highlighted a small study by a Michigan high school student demonstrating that iPods can disrupt some functions of standard pacemakers when they are placed in a shirt pocket. The biggest impact among the 100 patients tested was a case in which the iPod caused the pacemaker to skip a few beats. Jay Thaker, the 17 year-old student who came up with the idea for the study, worked at with Dr. Krit Jongnarangsin, who has since moved to the The study was the first to focus on portable music players but did not surprise anyone at the meeting because of numerous studies in the past showing that other devices like cell phones have similar effects. Patients who get implants are routinely warned about exposure to a wide range of consumer electronics, airport screening machines and other devices that generate electromagnetic fields. Next Article in Health (1 of 15) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. U.S. Approves Improvements For Implants Defibrillator Maker Props Up Stress Test Company Growing Debate As Doctors Train On New Devices TECHNOLOGY; U.S. Shields Doctor Data In Implants Next Article in Health (1 of 15) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » Everything you need to know about heart disease Hip resurfacing: is it right for you? The changing attitudes towards "chemo brain" Treating the awkward years THE NEW YORK TIMES GUIDE TO ESSENTIAL KNOWLEDGE Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/health/11anemia.html?ex=1336536000&en=64815775ee883add&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	F.D.A. Panel Seeks Limits on Cancer Patient Drugs - New York Times Mental Health & Behavior F.D.A. Panel Seeks Limits on Cancer Patient Drugs Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 SILVER SPRING, Md., May 10 &#151; Bowing to safety concerns, government medical advisers urged on Thursday that additional restrictions be put on the use of drugs that treat The recommendations by an advisory committee to the Food and Drug Administration followed a flurry of studies suggesting that the drugs, meant to help patients cope with , might actually be making their cancer worse or hastening their deaths. The drugs &#151; Aranesp from Amgen and Procrit from Johnson &#38; Johnson &#151; are used by about a half-million American cancer patients a year and have billions of dollars in annual sales. Some members of the committee expressed shock that even though Procrit was first approved 14 years ago, it was still not clear if the drugs were safe at the doses typically used. &#8220;Yes, we have a burning question,&#8221; one panel member, Dr. Silvana Martino, an oncologist in Santa Monica, Calif., said at the meeting here. &#8220;Do these things kill people?&#8221; Most of the studies showing a risk involved use of the drugs at doses higher than doctors typically give them. That left the committee with the question of what to do about use of the drugs at the usual doses until more data become available. The F.D.A. has already clamped down on the drugs. In March it put strict new warnings on the labels, saying the products should be used at the smallest dosage that lets anemic patients avoid blood transfusions. But the panel&#8217;s votes Thursday portend even further restrictions. The committee voted 12 to 5, for instance, that the drugs should be barred from use by patients with certain types of cancer until more is known about their safety. While the committee did not specify which types, several members mentioned , non-small cell lung cancer and head and neck cancer. The committee voted 15 to 2 that there should be more restrictions in general if the drugs remain on the market, and 17 to 0 that more studies were needed. And it voted 16 to 1 that anemia therapy should be stopped when chemotherapy is finished. But in one victory for the drug makers, the committee voted 11 to 6 against lowering the ceiling on how much the anemia should be corrected. The labels now say that a patient&#8217;s hemoglobin, the oxygen-carrying component of red blood cells, should not be raised to more than 12 grams per deciliter of blood. The F.D.A. usually follows the recommendations of such panels. Dr. Richard Pazdur, director of the agency&#8217;s cancer drug division, said Thursday he could not say yet when or how the agency would act. The two drugs, along with another Amgen drug, Epogen, are also used to treat anemia caused by kidney disease, but yesterday&#8217;s meeting concerned only cancer treatment. Another hearing dealing with kidney disease will be held early in the fall. The panel&#8217;s recommendations were a particular blow to Amgen, which last year took in nearly half its $14.3 billion in revenue from the anemia drugs. Johnson &#38; Johnson is far larger and more diversified than Amgen, and so is less dependent on Procrit sales. &#8220;I think it&#8217;s worse than what investors expected,&#8221; Michael Aberman, an analyst who follows Amgen for Credit Suisse, said after the meeting. Amgen&#8217;s stock fell $5.77, or more than 9 percent, to close at $57.33. Trish Hawkins, an Amgen spokeswoman, said in a statement, &#8220;We will be working with the F.D.A. as they consider the committee&#8217;s recommendations.&#8221; The drugs, known generically as darbepoetin and epoetin, were approved to reduce the need for blood transfusions in patients with anemia from chemotherapy. Many doctors and patients believe the drugs fight fatigue and improve patients&#8217; daily lives, although the F.D.A. said it did not find studies with persuasive evidence of such benefits. A panel member from , Dr. Otis Brawley, said some doctors overprescribed the drugs because they made money from doing so. Doctors can sometimes receive more from insurers than they pay for the drugs, especially if they receive rebates from the manufacturers. Dr. Brawley said the drug companies had not done proper studies, and at one point asked them, &#8220;What data do you have to assure me that this is not Miracle-Gro for cancer?&#8221; The staff of the F.D.A. was also critical of the companies, saying they had not provided data they had promised when a similar advisory panel meeting was held in 2004. The companies and their advocates argued that ample data showed the drugs were safe when used properly, except for a long-known risk of increased blood clots. They also argued that the drugs had significant benefits. Forcing cancer patients to go back to transfusions, they said, would expose the patients to risks and inconvenience and further strain the nation&#8217;s already taxed blood supply. That sentiment was also voiced by some committee members. &#8220;I think the idea of going back to the dark ages in regards to supportive care is a step backward,&#8221; said Dr. S. Gail Eckhardt of the , the panel&#8217;s chairman. Advisory panel meetings often feature eloquent pleas from patients that a drug be approved or kept on the market. But there was not a big outpouring of support for the anemia drugs. In fact, some patients expressed dismay at how the drugs were used. &#8220;How is it possible that what was meant to help me might actually have made things worse?&#8221; said Lilla Romeo, who has had breast cancer since 1995. Next Article in Health (2 of 15) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. MARKET PLACE; Amgen Seeks To Reverse Its Bad News ImClone's Drug Fails in Pancreatic Cancer Study F.D.A. Approves Glaxo Cancer Drug Studies Show Anemia Drugs May Harm Cancer Patients Food and Drug Administration Next Article in Health (2 of 15) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » Everything you need to know about heart disease Hip resurfacing: is it right for you? The changing attitudes towards "chemo brain" Treating the awkward years Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/us/11milk.html	Dairy Council to End Ad Campaign That Linked Drinking Milk With Weight Loss - New York Times Dairy Council to End Ad Campaign That Linked Drinking Milk With Weight Loss Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 A national advertising campaign that associates dairy products with weight loss will be curtailed because research does not support the claim, according to the Federal Trade Commission. The advertisements, conceived by the promotional arm of the dairy industry and overseen by the Agriculture Department, feature slogans like &#8220;Milk your . Lose weight!&#8221; and suggest that three servings of dairy products a day can help people be slim. The effort includes a campaign called &#8220;Body by Milk&#8221; that is aimed at teenagers. It features Alex Rodriguez, the third baseman for the New York Yankees, and Carrie Underwood, an &#8220;American Idol&#8221; winner. The assertion that there is a link between weight loss and dairy consumption has long been contested by the Physicians Committee for Responsible Medicine, an advocacy and research group that promotes a diet free of animal products. The group petitioned the F.T.C. in 2005 to argue that the advertisements were misleading. In a May 3 letter to the group, Lydia Parnes, director of the agency&#8217;s Bureau of Consumer Protection, said Agriculture Department representatives and milk producers and processors had agreed to change the advertisements and related marketing materials &#8220;until further research provides stronger, more conclusive evidence of an association between dairy consumption and weight loss.&#8221; As of Thursday, the National Dairy Council still had a section of its Web site devoted to the weight-loss claim. But the site, along with some of the advertisements, will be changed, said Greg Miller, who is executive vice president of the council and has a doctorate in nutrition. &#8220;Like any other marketing campaign, after time you want to freshen them up and give the consumers what&#8217;s new,&#8221; Mr. Miller said. &#8220;That&#8217;s what&#8217;s happening here.&#8221; Dr. Neal Barnard, president of the group that brought the matter to the F.T.C., said it would continue to press the dairy industry on other claims, which include the assertion that calcium helps prevent bone fractures in older women. &#8220;I think people will start to recognize that the dairy industry, which used to have a mom-and-pop image, is a huge commercial entity that will exaggerate to sell its products,&#8221; Dr. Barnard said. Mr. Miller said most medical professionals agreed that dairy contributed to overall bone health and could help people maintain a healthy weight. &#8220;I think there&#8217;s a minority of people out there that just have very loud voices,&#8221; he said. &#8220;This is a vegan group that doesn&#8217;t want anyone to eat dairy.&#8221; Dairy products were upgraded in the 2005 revision of federal dietary guidelines, which recommended that people consume more low-fat milk and dairy products. An advisory committee that helped set the guidelines cited a report, partly financed by the dairy industry, which found that low-fat dairy products did not necessarily add to weight gain and that dairy products have certain nutrients that can help consumers meet dietary recommendations. The guidelines increased the amount of low-fat or fat-free dairy products to three cups a day, up from two cups. The dairy council is allowed to continue to use wording from those guidelines that says adults and children should not avoid milk and milk products because of concerns that they may lead to weight gain, the letter from the F.T.C. said. Marion Nestle, a professor of nutrition at , said the agreement to modify the advertisements was groundbreaking. In her book, &#8220;What to Eat,&#8221; she argued that lobbying by the $50 billion dairy industry could sometimes cloud policy on nutrition. Though Ms. Nestle said she ate dairy products regularly and did not dispute their nutritional value, she said people could have a healthy diet without them. &#8220;Those ads were ridiculously misleading,&#8221; she said. More Articles in National &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. THE NATION; Thinning the Milk Does Not Mean Thinning the Child Bodegas Are Asked by Health Officials to Help Push a Better Diet in Poorer Neighborhoods ADVERTISING; Chug Milk, Shed Pounds? Not So Fast PERSONAL HEALTH; Of Mice, Men and 'Magic' Diet Supplements More Articles in National &#x00bb; A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Hair Pulling Feat 1925 Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/pages/health/index.html?partner=rssnyt	Health News - New York Times Mental Health & Behavior Electric Pulses, Instead of Shocks, Can Help Heart Patients Many heart patients who believe that their lives have been saved by shocks from implanted defibrillators could have survived without the jolt, new research shows. Passage of Drug Safety Bill Was Common Goal for Two Very Different Senators By ROBERT PEAR and GARDINER HARRIS Senators Edward M. Kennedy and Michael B. Enzi worked together in an unusual display of bipartisanship to make the bill passable. F.D.A. Panel Seeks Limits on Cancer Patient Drugs Bowing to safety concerns, government medical advisers urged on Thursday that additional restrictions be put on the use of drugs that treat anemia in cancer patients. Dairy Council to End Ad Campaign That Linked Drinking Milk With Weight Loss A national advertising campaign that associates dairy products with weight loss will be curtailed because research does not support the claim. Contaminated Water in Queens Is a Repeat Performance The area where city officials found an industrial chemical in the drinking water last week has had problems with contamination by the same chemical for several years. Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry’s Role By GARDINER HARRIS, BENEDICT CAREY and JANET ROBERTS The intersection of money and medicine has become one of the most contentious issues in psychiatry. Senate Approves Tighter Policing of Drug Makers The bill would give the F.D.A. new power to police drug safety, order changes in labels and regulate ads. Legislators Ask to Revise Plan for Hospitals Leaders of the State Legislature said that they wanted Gov. Eliot Spitzer to reconsider a plan approved last year to close, merge or shrink dozens of hospitals across the state. Doctors Reap Millions for Anemia Drugs The DNA Age: Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Massachusetts Proposes Stem Cell Research Grants Chinese Company Linked to Deaths Wasn’t Licensed Clinton Foundation Announces a Bargain on Generic AIDS Drugs Advertising: Telling Dieters a Pill Works Only if They Work, Too Jury Is Still Out on Gluten, the Latest Dietary Villain Study Links Rescuers’ Lung Ailment to Trade Center Collapse Personal Health: Deciphering the Results of a Prostate Test Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Cases: The Struggle to Move Beyond ‘Why Me?’ Really? : The Claim: Aspirin Can Reduce the Risk of Alzheimer’s Disease Essay: A Moment of Revelation, Preserved in a Test Stick Study Suggests Meditation Can Help Train Attention China Tells Little About Illness That Kills Pigs, Officials Say Vital Signs: Adolescence: No Link to Promiscuity Found in Youths Using Condoms Vital Signs: Patterns: Early Menarche Linked to Heavier Children Vital Signs: Child Care: Regular Television Time Starts for Many at 3 Months Vital Signs: At Risk: Study Shows Flu Season Increases Heart Ailments Report on Child Deaths Finds Some Hope in Poorest Nations Johnson & Johnson Won’t Seek Approval for a Heart Stent Energy Drink Is Withdrawn Over Concerns About Name : Going Against the Flow A birth control pill designed to eliminate the monthly period may hit the market soon. : Choosing Hip Resurfacing Keith McDonald underwent hip resurfacing surgery, a newer alternative to total hip replacement. : A Persistent Problem Keith Orr's story illustrates the reasons that heart disease still kills more Americans than any other disease. The Yoga Therapist Will See You Now A Healthy Mix of Rest and Motion Methods Used by Insurers Are Questioned Small Businesses’ Premiums Soar After Illness MENTAL HEALTH & BEHAVIOR» Stress on Troops Adds to U.S. Hurdles in Iraq Depression Raises Risk of Diabetes, Study Finds Some parents of children with Down syndrome want prospective parents to know the positive side of raising a child with the genetic condition. The Yoga Therapist Will See You Now Are one-on-one yoga classes effective physical therapy? Blogging for Truth and Beauty Dr. Robert Oliver Jr., a plastic surgeon in Birmingham, Ala., started his blog plasticsurgery101.blogspot, and has used it to question everything from so-called fat-melting injections to implants. Jane Brody, "Personal Health" columnist, discusses the latest health news. Sports of The Times Stealth Killer Puts Doctor on Mission With N.F.L. For the past four years, Dr. Arthur Roberts, a record-setting pass-slinger at Columbia, has been studying football’s struggle against cardiovascular disease. A user's guide to diagnostic tests. What you need to know about procedures and diagnoses for six major diseases. Go to Special Section » News from AP &#x00bb; FDA Panel Wants More Anemia Drug Studies FTC Says Milk Ads Under Fire Are Ending DIET: Thin People May Be Fat Inside Milk Ads Under Fire Are Ending DIET: Thin People May Be Fat Inside Merck Problem Means Extra Shot for Kids Browse All Health Topics Select a Health Topic Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS) Dietary Supplements and Herbal Remedies Food Contamination and Poisoning Human Papilloma Virus (HPV) Mental Health and Disorders Post Traumatic Stress Disorder SARS (Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome) Seasonal Affective Disorder (SAD) Sexually Transmitted Diseases (STDs) Sudden Infant Death Syndrome Suicides and Suicide Attempts Health & Fitness Tools What's your score? » Calorie Calculator for Goal Weight What's your limit? » MOST POPULAR - HEALTH Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside F.D.A. Panel Seeks Limits on Cancer Patient Drugs Electric Pulses, Instead of Shocks, Can Help Heart Patients Jury Is Still Out on Gluten, the Latest Dietary Villain Study Suggests Meditation Can Help Train Attention Personal Health: Deciphering the Results of a Prostate Test Cases: The Struggle to Move Beyond &#8216;Why Me?&#8217; Vital Signs: Child Care: Regular Television Time Starts for Many at 3 Months Chemotherapy Fog Is No Longer Ignored as Illusion Go to Complete List » Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Psychiatrists, Troubled Children and Drug Industry's Role Child Care: Regular Television Time Starts for Many at 3 Months The Struggle to Move Beyond â€˜Why Me?' Adolescence: No Link to Promiscuity Found in Youths Using Condoms Epilepsy Drug Can Increase Risk for Newborns, Study Says Go to Complete List » Everything you need to know about heart disease Hip resurfacing: is it right for you? The changing attitudes towards "chemo brain" Treating the awkward years What movie should you see? Continuous coverage of business news. Be Prepared. For Your Major Purchase. Photos, fine art, books and more. Which gadget is getting all the buzz? What’s new on Broadway? The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/health/11anemia.html	F.D.A. Panel Seeks Limits on Cancer Patient Drugs - New York Times Mental Health & Behavior F.D.A. Panel Seeks Limits on Cancer Patient Drugs Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 SILVER SPRING, Md., May 10 &#151; Bowing to safety concerns, government medical advisers urged on Thursday that additional restrictions be put on the use of drugs that treat The recommendations by an advisory committee to the Food and Drug Administration followed a flurry of studies suggesting that the drugs, meant to help patients cope with , might actually be making their cancer worse or hastening their deaths. The drugs &#151; Aranesp from Amgen and Procrit from Johnson &#38; Johnson &#151; are used by about a half-million American cancer patients a year and have billions of dollars in annual sales. Some members of the committee expressed shock that even though Procrit was first approved 14 years ago, it was still not clear if the drugs were safe at the doses typically used. &#8220;Yes, we have a burning question,&#8221; one panel member, Dr. Silvana Martino, an oncologist in Santa Monica, Calif., said at the meeting here. &#8220;Do these things kill people?&#8221; Most of the studies showing a risk involved use of the drugs at doses higher than doctors typically give them. That left the committee with the question of what to do about use of the drugs at the usual doses until more data become available. The F.D.A. has already clamped down on the drugs. In March it put strict new warnings on the labels, saying the products should be used at the smallest dosage that lets anemic patients avoid blood transfusions. But the panel&#8217;s votes Thursday portend even further restrictions. The committee voted 12 to 5, for instance, that the drugs should be barred from use by patients with certain types of cancer until more is known about their safety. While the committee did not specify which types, several members mentioned , non-small cell lung cancer and head and neck cancer. The committee voted 15 to 2 that there should be more restrictions in general if the drugs remain on the market, and 17 to 0 that more studies were needed. And it voted 16 to 1 that anemia therapy should be stopped when chemotherapy is finished. But in one victory for the drug makers, the committee voted 11 to 6 against lowering the ceiling on how much the anemia should be corrected. The labels now say that a patient&#8217;s hemoglobin, the oxygen-carrying component of red blood cells, should not be raised to more than 12 grams per deciliter of blood. The F.D.A. usually follows the recommendations of such panels. Dr. Richard Pazdur, director of the agency&#8217;s cancer drug division, said Thursday he could not say yet when or how the agency would act. The two drugs, along with another Amgen drug, Epogen, are also used to treat anemia caused by kidney disease, but yesterday&#8217;s meeting concerned only cancer treatment. Another hearing dealing with kidney disease will be held early in the fall. The panel&#8217;s recommendations were a particular blow to Amgen, which last year took in nearly half its $14.3 billion in revenue from the anemia drugs. Johnson &#38; Johnson is far larger and more diversified than Amgen, and so is less dependent on Procrit sales. &#8220;I think it&#8217;s worse than what investors expected,&#8221; Michael Aberman, an analyst who follows Amgen for Credit Suisse, said after the meeting. Amgen&#8217;s stock fell $5.77, or more than 9 percent, to close at $57.33. Trish Hawkins, an Amgen spokeswoman, said in a statement, &#8220;We will be working with the F.D.A. as they consider the committee&#8217;s recommendations.&#8221; The drugs, known generically as darbepoetin and epoetin, were approved to reduce the need for blood transfusions in patients with anemia from chemotherapy. Many doctors and patients believe the drugs fight fatigue and improve patients&#8217; daily lives, although the F.D.A. said it did not find studies with persuasive evidence of such benefits. A panel member from , Dr. Otis Brawley, said some doctors overprescribed the drugs because they made money from doing so. Doctors can sometimes receive more from insurers than they pay for the drugs, especially if they receive rebates from the manufacturers. Dr. Brawley said the drug companies had not done proper studies, and at one point asked them, &#8220;What data do you have to assure me that this is not Miracle-Gro for cancer?&#8221; The staff of the F.D.A. was also critical of the companies, saying they had not provided data they had promised when a similar advisory panel meeting was held in 2004. The companies and their advocates argued that ample data showed the drugs were safe when used properly, except for a long-known risk of increased blood clots. They also argued that the drugs had significant benefits. Forcing cancer patients to go back to transfusions, they said, would expose the patients to risks and inconvenience and further strain the nation&#8217;s already taxed blood supply. That sentiment was also voiced by some committee members. &#8220;I think the idea of going back to the dark ages in regards to supportive care is a step backward,&#8221; said Dr. S. Gail Eckhardt of the , the panel&#8217;s chairman. Advisory panel meetings often feature eloquent pleas from patients that a drug be approved or kept on the market. But there was not a big outpouring of support for the anemia drugs. In fact, some patients expressed dismay at how the drugs were used. &#8220;How is it possible that what was meant to help me might actually have made things worse?&#8221; said Lilla Romeo, who has had breast cancer since 1995. Next Article in Health (2 of 15) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. MARKET PLACE; Amgen Seeks To Reverse Its Bad News ImClone's Drug Fails in Pancreatic Cancer Study F.D.A. Approves Glaxo Cancer Drug Studies Show Anemia Drugs May Harm Cancer Patients Food and Drug Administration Next Article in Health (2 of 15) &#x00bb; Everything you need to know about heart disease Hip resurfacing: is it right for you? The changing attitudes towards "chemo brain" Treating the awkward years Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/washington/11fda.html	Passage of Drug Safety Bill Was Common Goal for Two Very Different Senators - New York Times Passage of Drug Safety Bill Was Common Goal for Two Very Different Senators Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 WASHINGTON, May 10 &#151; Legislation to beef up drug safety, passed by the Senate this week with only one dissenting vote, grew out of an extraordinary pact between two senators and a frantic effort by the pharmaceutical industry to avoid any disruption in the approval of new drugs. The bill would increase the fees paid by drug makers to help finance the work of the Food and Drug Administration and would give the agency new power to police company conduct. Industry lobbyists and executives said they supported the bill for one overriding reason: pink slips. Sometime this summer, if a bill has not passed, medical officers at the F.D.A. will start getting notices that they are in danger of being laid off by the end of the fiscal year on Sept. 30. Some of those officers are likely to be in the midst of reviewing new drug applications crucial to the future of drug makers. If those medical officers leave, drug approvals may be delayed &#151; a terrifying prospect for many companies. &#8220;The last thing we want is for F.D.A. employees to start thinking they may not have a job and start leaving,&#8221; said Alan R. Goldhammer, deputy vice president of Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America, a trade group for brand-name drug companies. In addition, many in the drug industry said they supported the bill because they believed that it would help restore public confidence in the nation&#8217;s drug supply. &#8220;There has been a loss of confidence in the F.D.A., and we can&#8217;t afford to have that,&#8221; said Dr. Joseph M. Feczko, Pfizer&#8217;s chief medical officer. &#8220;When our medicines come out, we want people to understand they have gone through a rigorous review process.&#8221; Under the bill, the F.D.A. could impose civil fines on companies that violated a drug safety plan or ran false or misleading advertisements. But major drug makers said they would comply with federal requirements, so the agency would not have reason to impose penalties on them. , Democrat of Massachusetts, was chief sponsor of the legislation, but Senator Michael B. Enzi, Republican of Wyoming, was equally responsible for its contents. In an unusual display of bipartisanship, they worked together to fend off amendments that would have made the bill unacceptable to the White House, raised the ire of the pharmaceutical industry or jeopardized chances for passage. &#8220;Kennedy and I have developed a trust,&#8221; Mr. Enzi said in an interview. &#8220;We don&#8217;t try to run over each other. We have a history of passing bills &#151; 27 signed by the president in the last two years.&#8221; An earlier version of the legislation was introduced by Mr. Enzi last August, when controlled Congress and he was chairman of the Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor and Pensions. When Democrats took control this year and Mr. Kennedy became chairman of the committee, he kept his compact with Mr. Enzi. Working together, they steered the legislation through the committee and the full Senate. Along the way, they accepted dozens of changes proposed by lawmakers of both parties. Mr. Enzi, an accountant and former owner of a shoe store, was mayor of Gillette, Wyo., and served 10 years in the State Legislature. His quiet manner could hardly differ more from that of Mr. Kennedy. Mr. Enzi is as conservative as Mr. Kennedy is liberal. But both are pragmatic legislative craftsmen. Mr. Enzi was recruited into politics by former Senator Alan K. Simpson, another Wyoming Republican who collaborated with Mr. Kennedy on many issues, including In an interview, Mr. Simpson said: &#8220;Mike is a legislator. He&#8217;s calm. He&#8217;s steady. He&#8217;s not a partisan kook or anything of that nature.&#8221; Mr. Simpson said Mr. Enzi and Mr. Kennedy had &#8220;a mutual admiration society, built on trust, respect and friendship, with none of the savage partisanship&#8221; found elsewhere in American politics. Mr. Enzi holds the Senate seat once held by Mr. Simpson and his father, Milward L. Simpson, who entered the Senate on the same day as Mr. Kennedy, Nov. 7, 1962. &#8220;Teddy loved my dad,&#8221; said Mr. Simpson, who nurtured the relationship between Mr. Enzi and Mr. Kennedy. , Republican of New Hampshire, voted against the drug safety bill in the committee, but worked with Mr. Kennedy and Mr. Enzi to make changes that won his support for the legislation on the floor. &#8220;There&#8217;s a Ted Kennedy who is quite flamboyant and partisan in the theater of the Senate,&#8221; Mr. Gregg said in an interview. &#8220;And there is a Ted Kennedy who is extremely bipartisan and willing to work with people in the back rooms of the Senate.&#8221; Industry officials breathed a huge sigh of relief when the Senate approved an amendment offered by Senator Thad Cochran, Republican of Mississippi, that would effectively maintain the current ban on imported drugs. Drug makers fiercely oppose efforts to legalize imports of lower-cost medicines from Canada and other countries. Having won that fight, drug company executives said, they decided not to fight other provisions that they saw as less threatening. &#8220;They need to pick their battles,&#8221; said Barbara Ryan, a pharmaceutical industry analyst at Deutsche Bank Securities. &#8220;Anything that doesn&#8217;t interfere with pricing and approvals is not going to hurt them seriously.&#8221; Still, many advocates, including some who support the bill&#8217;s passage, said the legislation was not the answer to the nation&#8217;s drug safety problems. &#8220;We have horrible leadership at the F.D.A., and they don&#8217;t even use the authorities they already have,&#8221; said Dr. Steven Nissen, chairman of the department of cardiovascular medicine at the Cleveland Clinic. More Articles in Washington &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Senate Vote Upholds Drug Import Limits Court Strikes Law Barring Sale of Drug Data Break Seen In Logjam Over Trade A State's Files Put Doctors' Ties To Drug Makers on Close View More Articles in Washington &#x00bb; A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/us/11milk.html?ex=1336536000&en=579284b9d162b729&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Dairy Council to End Ad Campaign That Linked Drinking Milk With Weight Loss - New York Times Dairy Council to End Ad Campaign That Linked Drinking Milk With Weight Loss Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 A national advertising campaign that associates dairy products with weight loss will be curtailed because research does not support the claim, according to the Federal Trade Commission. The advertisements, conceived by the promotional arm of the dairy industry and overseen by the Agriculture Department, feature slogans like &#8220;Milk your . Lose weight!&#8221; and suggest that three servings of dairy products a day can help people be slim. The effort includes a campaign called &#8220;Body by Milk&#8221; that is aimed at teenagers. It features Alex Rodriguez, the third baseman for the New York Yankees, and Carrie Underwood, an &#8220;American Idol&#8221; winner. The assertion that there is a link between weight loss and dairy consumption has long been contested by the Physicians Committee for Responsible Medicine, an advocacy and research group that promotes a diet free of animal products. The group petitioned the F.T.C. in 2005 to argue that the advertisements were misleading. In a May 3 letter to the group, Lydia Parnes, director of the agency&#8217;s Bureau of Consumer Protection, said Agriculture Department representatives and milk producers and processors had agreed to change the advertisements and related marketing materials &#8220;until further research provides stronger, more conclusive evidence of an association between dairy consumption and weight loss.&#8221; As of Thursday, the National Dairy Council still had a section of its Web site devoted to the weight-loss claim. But the site, along with some of the advertisements, will be changed, said Greg Miller, who is executive vice president of the council and has a doctorate in nutrition. &#8220;Like any other marketing campaign, after time you want to freshen them up and give the consumers what&#8217;s new,&#8221; Mr. Miller said. &#8220;That&#8217;s what&#8217;s happening here.&#8221; Dr. Neal Barnard, president of the group that brought the matter to the F.T.C., said it would continue to press the dairy industry on other claims, which include the assertion that calcium helps prevent bone fractures in older women. &#8220;I think people will start to recognize that the dairy industry, which used to have a mom-and-pop image, is a huge commercial entity that will exaggerate to sell its products,&#8221; Dr. Barnard said. Mr. Miller said most medical professionals agreed that dairy contributed to overall bone health and could help people maintain a healthy weight. &#8220;I think there&#8217;s a minority of people out there that just have very loud voices,&#8221; he said. &#8220;This is a vegan group that doesn&#8217;t want anyone to eat dairy.&#8221; Dairy products were upgraded in the 2005 revision of federal dietary guidelines, which recommended that people consume more low-fat milk and dairy products. An advisory committee that helped set the guidelines cited a report, partly financed by the dairy industry, which found that low-fat dairy products did not necessarily add to weight gain and that dairy products have certain nutrients that can help consumers meet dietary recommendations. The guidelines increased the amount of low-fat or fat-free dairy products to three cups a day, up from two cups. The dairy council is allowed to continue to use wording from those guidelines that says adults and children should not avoid milk and milk products because of concerns that they may lead to weight gain, the letter from the F.T.C. said. Marion Nestle, a professor of nutrition at , said the agreement to modify the advertisements was groundbreaking. In her book, &#8220;What to Eat,&#8221; she argued that lobbying by the $50 billion dairy industry could sometimes cloud policy on nutrition. Though Ms. Nestle said she ate dairy products regularly and did not dispute their nutritional value, she said people could have a healthy diet without them. &#8220;Those ads were ridiculously misleading,&#8221; she said. More Articles in National &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. THE NATION; Thinning the Milk Does Not Mean Thinning the Child Bodegas Are Asked by Health Officials to Help Push a Better Diet in Poorer Neighborhoods ADVERTISING; Chug Milk, Shed Pounds? Not So Fast PERSONAL HEALTH; Of Mice, Men and 'Magic' Diet Supplements More Articles in National &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/pages/health/index.html	Health News - New York Times Mental Health & Behavior Electric Pulses, Instead of Shocks, Can Help Heart Patients Many heart patients who believe that their lives have been saved by shocks from implanted defibrillators could have survived without the jolt, new research shows. Passage of Drug Safety Bill Was Common Goal for Two Very Different Senators By ROBERT PEAR and GARDINER HARRIS Senators Edward M. Kennedy and Michael B. Enzi worked together in an unusual display of bipartisanship to make the bill passable. F.D.A. Panel Seeks Limits on Cancer Patient Drugs Bowing to safety concerns, government medical advisers urged on Thursday that additional restrictions be put on the use of drugs that treat anemia in cancer patients. Dairy Council to End Ad Campaign That Linked Drinking Milk With Weight Loss A national advertising campaign that associates dairy products with weight loss will be curtailed because research does not support the claim. Contaminated Water in Queens Is a Repeat Performance The area where city officials found an industrial chemical in the drinking water last week has had problems with contamination by the same chemical for several years. Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry’s Role By GARDINER HARRIS, BENEDICT CAREY and JANET ROBERTS The intersection of money and medicine has become one of the most contentious issues in psychiatry. Senate Approves Tighter Policing of Drug Makers The bill would give the F.D.A. new power to police drug safety, order changes in labels and regulate ads. Legislators Ask to Revise Plan for Hospitals Leaders of the State Legislature said that they wanted Gov. Eliot Spitzer to reconsider a plan approved last year to close, merge or shrink dozens of hospitals across the state. Doctors Reap Millions for Anemia Drugs The DNA Age: Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Massachusetts Proposes Stem Cell Research Grants Chinese Company Linked to Deaths Wasn’t Licensed Clinton Foundation Announces a Bargain on Generic AIDS Drugs Advertising: Telling Dieters a Pill Works Only if They Work, Too Jury Is Still Out on Gluten, the Latest Dietary Villain Study Links Rescuers’ Lung Ailment to Trade Center Collapse Personal Health: Deciphering the Results of a Prostate Test Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Cases: The Struggle to Move Beyond ‘Why Me?’ Really? : The Claim: Aspirin Can Reduce the Risk of Alzheimer’s Disease Essay: A Moment of Revelation, Preserved in a Test Stick Study Suggests Meditation Can Help Train Attention China Tells Little About Illness That Kills Pigs, Officials Say Vital Signs: Adolescence: No Link to Promiscuity Found in Youths Using Condoms Vital Signs: Patterns: Early Menarche Linked to Heavier Children Vital Signs: Child Care: Regular Television Time Starts for Many at 3 Months Vital Signs: At Risk: Study Shows Flu Season Increases Heart Ailments Report on Child Deaths Finds Some Hope in Poorest Nations Johnson & Johnson Won’t Seek Approval for a Heart Stent Energy Drink Is Withdrawn Over Concerns About Name : Going Against the Flow A birth control pill designed to eliminate the monthly period may hit the market soon. : Choosing Hip Resurfacing Keith McDonald underwent hip resurfacing surgery, a newer alternative to total hip replacement. : A Persistent Problem Keith Orr's story illustrates the reasons that heart disease still kills more Americans than any other disease. The Yoga Therapist Will See You Now A Healthy Mix of Rest and Motion Methods Used by Insurers Are Questioned Small Businesses’ Premiums Soar After Illness MENTAL HEALTH & BEHAVIOR» Stress on Troops Adds to U.S. Hurdles in Iraq Depression Raises Risk of Diabetes, Study Finds Some parents of children with Down syndrome want prospective parents to know the positive side of raising a child with the genetic condition. The Yoga Therapist Will See You Now Are one-on-one yoga classes effective physical therapy? Blogging for Truth and Beauty Dr. Robert Oliver Jr., a plastic surgeon in Birmingham, Ala., started his blog plasticsurgery101.blogspot, and has used it to question everything from so-called fat-melting injections to implants. Jane Brody, "Personal Health" columnist, discusses the latest health news. Sports of The Times Stealth Killer Puts Doctor on Mission With N.F.L. For the past four years, Dr. Arthur Roberts, a record-setting pass-slinger at Columbia, has been studying football’s struggle against cardiovascular disease. A user's guide to diagnostic tests. What you need to know about procedures and diagnoses for six major diseases. Go to Special Section » News from AP &#x00bb; FDA Panel Wants More Anemia Drug Studies FTC Says Milk Ads Under Fire Are Ending DIET: Thin People May Be Fat Inside Milk Ads Under Fire Are Ending DIET: Thin People May Be Fat Inside Merck Problem Means Extra Shot for Kids Browse All Health Topics Select a Health Topic Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS) Dietary Supplements and Herbal Remedies Food Contamination and Poisoning Human Papilloma Virus (HPV) Mental Health and Disorders Post Traumatic Stress Disorder SARS (Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome) Seasonal Affective Disorder (SAD) Sexually Transmitted Diseases (STDs) Sudden Infant Death Syndrome Suicides and Suicide Attempts Health & Fitness Tools What's your score? » Calorie Calculator for Goal Weight What's your limit? » MOST POPULAR - HEALTH Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside F.D.A. Panel Seeks Limits on Cancer Patient Drugs Electric Pulses, Instead of Shocks, Can Help Heart Patients Jury Is Still Out on Gluten, the Latest Dietary Villain Study Suggests Meditation Can Help Train Attention Personal Health: Deciphering the Results of a Prostate Test Cases: The Struggle to Move Beyond &#8216;Why Me?&#8217; Vital Signs: Child Care: Regular Television Time Starts for Many at 3 Months Chemotherapy Fog Is No Longer Ignored as Illusion Go to Complete List » Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Psychiatrists, Troubled Children and Drug Industry's Role Child Care: Regular Television Time Starts for Many at 3 Months The Struggle to Move Beyond â€˜Why Me?' Adolescence: No Link to Promiscuity Found in Youths Using Condoms Epilepsy Drug Can Increase Risk for Newborns, Study Says Go to Complete List » Everything you need to know about heart disease Hip resurfacing: is it right for you? The changing attitudes towards "chemo brain" Treating the awkward years Get the latest business news What movie should you see? Be Prepared. For Your Major Purchase. Photos, fine art, books and more. What’s new in technology? The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/health/10psyche.html	Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role - New York Times Mental Health & Behavior Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry’s Role Fabrizio Costantini for The New York Times Anya Bailey is among a growing number of children given antipsychotic drugs by doctors who are paid by the makers of those drugs. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This By GARDINER HARRIS, BENEDICT CAREY and JANET ROBERTS Published: May 10, 2007 When Anya Bailey developed an after her 12th birthday, her mother took her to a psychiatrist at the who prescribed a powerful antipsychotic drug called Risperdal. Skip to next paragraph The New York Times , Risperdal is not approved to treat eating disorders, but increased appetite is a common side effect and doctors may prescribe drugs as they see fit. Anya gained weight but within two years developed a crippling knot in her back. She now receives regular injections of Botox to unclench her back muscles. She often awakens crying in pain. Isabella Bailey, Anya’s mother, said she had no idea that children might be especially susceptible to Risperdal’s side effects. Nor did she know that Risperdal and similar medicines were not approved at the time to treat children, or that medical trials often cited to justify the use of such drugs had as few as eight children taking the drug by the end. Just as surprising, Ms. Bailey said, was learning that the university psychiatrist who supervised Anya’s care received more than $7,000 from 2003 to 2004 from Johnson & Johnson, Risperdal’s maker, in return for lectures about one of the company’s drugs. Doctors, including Anya Bailey’s, maintain that payments from drug companies do not influence what they prescribe for patients. But the intersection of money and medicine, and its effect on the well-being of patients, has become one of the most contentious issues in health care. Nowhere is that more true than in psychiatry, where increasing payments to doctors have coincided with the growing use in children of a relatively new class of drugs known as atypical antipsychotics. These best-selling drugs, including Risperdal, Seroquel, Zyprexa, Abilify and Geodon, are now being prescribed to more than half a million children in the United States to help parents deal with behavior problems despite profound risks and almost no approved uses for minors. A New York Times analysis of records in Minnesota, the only state that requires public reports of all drug company marketing payments to doctors, provides rare documentation of how financial relationships between doctors and drug makers correspond to the growing use of atypicals in children. From 2000 to 2005, drug maker payments to Minnesota psychiatrists rose more than sixfold, to $1.6 million. During those same years, prescriptions of antipsychotics for children in Minnesota’s Medicaid program rose more than ninefold. Those who took the most money from makers of atypicals tended to prescribe the drugs to children the most often, the data suggest. On average, Minnesota psychiatrists who received at least $5,000 from atypical makers from 2000 to 2005 appear to have written three times as many atypical prescriptions for children as psychiatrists who received less or no money. The Times analysis focused on prescriptions written for about one-third of Minnesota’s Medicaid population, almost all of whom are disabled. Some doctors were misidentified by pharmacists, but the information provides a rough guide to prescribing patterns in the state. Drug makers underwrite decision makers at every level of care. They pay doctors who prescribe and recommend drugs, teach about the underlying diseases, perform studies and write guidelines that other doctors often feel bound to follow. But studies present strong evidence that financial interests can affect decisions, often without people knowing it. In Minnesota, psychiatrists collected more money from drug makers from 2000 to 2005 than doctors in any other specialty. Total payments to individual psychiatrists ranged from $51 to more than $689,000, with a median of $1,750. Since the records are incomplete, these figures probably underestimate doctors’ actual incomes. Such payments could encourage psychiatrists to use drugs in ways that endanger patients’ physical health, said Dr. Steven E. Hyman, the provost of and former director of the National Institute of Mental Health. The growing use of atypicals in children is the most troubling example of this, Dr. Hyman said. “There’s an irony that psychiatrists ask patients to have insights into themselves, but we don’t connect the wires in our own lives about how money is affecting our profession and putting our patients at risk,” he said. Anya Bailey is a 15-year-old high school freshman from East Grand Forks, Minn., with pictures of the actor Chad Michael Murray on her bedroom wall. She has constant discomfort in her neck that leads her to twist it in a birdlike fashion. Last year, a boy mimicked her in the lunch room. “The first time, I laughed it off,” Anya said. “I said: ‘That’s so funny. I think I’ll laugh with you.’ Then it got annoying, and I decided to hide it. I don’t want to be made fun of.” Now she slumps when seated at school to pressure her clenched muscles, she said. It all began in 2003 when Anya became dangerously thin. “Nothing tasted good to her,” Ms. Bailey said. This article is by Gardiner Harris, Benedict Carey and Janet Roberts. Next Article in Health (3 of 15) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Johnson & Johnson Inc Next Article in Health (3 of 15) &#x00bb; Everything you need to know about heart disease Hip resurfacing: is it right for you? The changing attitudes towards "chemo brain" Treating the awkward years THE NEW YORK TIMES CHICKEN COOKBOOK Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/health/11heartweb.html	Electric Pulses, Instead of Shocks, Can Help Heart Patients - New York Times Mental Health & Behavior Electric Pulses, Instead of Shocks, Can Help Heart Patients Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 DENVER, May 10 — Many heart patients who believe that their lives have been saved by shocks from implanted could have survived without a jolt from the devices, according to research presented here today at a meeting of heart specialists. The devices can safely be programmed instead to rely on pacemaking features, which deliver a stream of electric pulses that patients do not feel, in many situations where they currently deliver the shocks, the study concluded. In fact, the data suggested that programming the devices to ignore some irregularities in a patient’s heartbeat and thus to deliver shocks less frequently might actually save lives. The study comes on top of well-known data that 80 percent or more of the patients who receive the defibrillators as protection against a seizure never need a shock. Now, with the new study concluding that even when the devices are thought to be saving lives they might be doing so in an unnecessarily harsh way, doctors are likely to be more worried than ever about their inability to figure out when patients truly need the devices and how best to use them. “A lot of these shocks should be classified as inappropriate,” said Dr. Bruce L. Wilkoff, a defibrillator expert from the Cleveland Clinic Foundation who was the lead investigator and who presented the study results. Commenting on the lower death rate in the group of 700 patients whose devices were programmed to give shocks in fewer situations, Dr. Wilkoff said the difference was not statistically significant enough to ensure that the study’s approach was safer. But the trends in the data raised questions about whether unnecessary shocks weaken hearts in ways that raise the risks of death or hospitalization, he said. The new study was sponsored by Medtronic, the leading manufacturer of implanted defibrillators. It reflected the struggle among doctors to figure out the best uses of the expensive defibrillators. Other studies presented at the meeting explored specialized stress tests and minute differences in the behavior of hearts that might pinpoint which patients are most at risk of sudden cardiac arrest if they do not get defibrillators. The devices, which consist of a pocket-watch-size generator implanted in the chest and one to three leads inserted into the heart, cost as much as $50,000 to implant. Major clinical trials have shown that hundreds of thousands of Americans annually suffer from heart conditions — mainly a sharply reduced capacity to pump blood — that put them at risk for the kinds of breakdowns the defibrillators are designed to manage. Doctors believe that thousands of lives have been saved by the devices and that they should be more widely used. But the inability to figure out which patients are most at risk has slowed growth in the market, which was also hit in 2005 by news of malfunctions linked to a handful of deaths. Guidant, the manufacturer of the deadly devices, compounded the negative reaction by failing to disclose the problems promptly. Not all of the research reported here was weighty. The Heart Rhythm Society, the medical group that runs the annual meeting, also highlighted a small study by a Michigan high school student demonstrating that iPods can disrupt some functions of standard pacemakers when they are placed in a shirt pocket. The biggest impact among the 100 patients tested was a case in which the iPod caused the pacemaker to skip a few beats. Jay Thaker, the 17 year-old student who came up with the idea for the study, worked at with Dr. Krit Jongnarangsin, who has since moved to the The study was the first to focus on portable music players but did not surprise anyone at the meeting because of numerous studies in the past showing that other devices like cell phones have similar effects. Patients who get implants are routinely warned about exposure to a wide range of consumer electronics, airport screening machines and other devices that generate electromagnetic fields. Next Article in Health (1 of 15) &#x00bb; Start your 14-day free trial of TimesSelect now. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. U.S. Approves Improvements For Implants Defibrillator Maker Props Up Stress Test Company Growing Debate As Doctors Train On New Devices TECHNOLOGY; U.S. Shields Doctor Data In Implants Next Article in Health (1 of 15) &#x00bb; Everything you need to know about heart disease Hip resurfacing: is it right for you? The changing attitudes towards "chemo brain" Treating the awkward years THE NEW YORK TIMES GUIDE TO ESSENTIAL KNOWLEDGE Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/nyregion/11water.html?ex=1336536000&en=0d37d2646ddc0bd9&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Contaminated Water in Queens Is a Repeat Performance - New York Times Contaminated Water in Queens Is a Repeat Performance Uli Seit for The New York Times Water lines being flushed out by the Department of Environmental Protection on Springfield Boulevard near 110th Avenue in Cambria Heights, Queens. Traces of tetrachloroethylene were found there last week. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 The area in Queens where city officials found an industrial chemical in the drinking water last week has had problems with contamination by the same chemical for several years. The chemical — tetrachloroethylene, which is commonly used by dry cleaners and auto repair shops — has been detected sporadically in the water in Cambria Heights, Hollis and St. Albans every year since at least 2003, according to the New York City Department of Environmental Protection’s annual reports of drinking water quality. Anne Canty, the department’s deputy commissioner, said that testing yesterday detected continuing contamination, though at somewhat lower concentrations. Ten of 26 recent samples still contained traces of the colorless chemical, which has a sharp, sweet odor and is also known as perc. According to the federal , people who drink water containing tetrachloroethylene over many years can develop liver problems and may have an increased risk of . In New York City, the chemical is also considered an airborne hazard because many dry cleaners are inside residential buildings where fumes can seep through ceilings and walls. The city’s Department of Health and Mental Hygiene does not consider the amount of tetrachloroethylene in the water a serious health problem. People who remain concerned have been told to use bottled water for cooking and drinking and to take shorter showers. The contamination was detected last week during routine water testing. The city is required to notify water users if the average level of the chemical detected in water exceeds 5 parts per billion. As testing continued this week, some readings were as high as 13 parts per billion, more than double the maximum safe level. But as of late yesterday, the average level of the chemical had dropped to 3.7 parts per billion. Most of New York City gets drinking water from reservoirs 100 or more miles away and has not had a problem with the dry cleaning chemicals. But a five-and-a-half-mile section of southeastern Queens, which includes the area where the contamination was found, is sometimes served by a system of wells that are 100 to 360 feet deep. The wells belonged to a private water company until they were taken over by the city in 1996. Many have become contaminated with a variety of pollutants, including tetrachloroethylene, and can no longer be used. In 2005, five wells were in use, providing the neighborhood’s 100,000 residents with 2.2 million gallons of water a day, about 1 percent of the total used citywide every day. The wells had to be shut in February after pumps failed. The city plans to build a treatment plant for the wells, but construction is not scheduled to begin before 2009. Officials said that despite the recurring problem, they believed that the contaminated water found this week did not come from wells. An analysis of the chemical content of water indicated that it came from the main water system, officials said. Ms. Canty said water quality experts suspected that the current problem began with a faulty valve that failed to keep a small amount of chemical discharge from backing up into the drinking water system. Inspectors had checked about 300 dry cleaners and auto repair shops by midday yesterday, but the source of contamination was not discovered. In the meantime, Ms. Canty said, hydrants in the area were being flushed and the city expected the problem to be cleared up in a few days. In 2003, at least one sample of the well water in Queens exceeded 17 parts per billion. In both 2004 and 2005, tetrachloroethylene was detected in several samples and sometimes exceeded the safe level. But advisories were not issued in either year because the average of at least two consecutive readings fell below 5 parts per billion. Next Article in New York Region (6 of 29) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: MEADOWMERE; Big-Time Resentments In a Tiny Pocket of Queens Ocean Dumping Is Ending, but Not Problems; New York Can't Ship, Bury or Burn Its Sludge, but No One Wants a Processing Plant Pact Reached To Save Water In New York Medical Waste Shuts Jacob Riis Park Beach Next Article in New York Region (6 of 29) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/nyregion/11water.html	Contaminated Water in Queens Is a Repeat Performance - New York Times Contaminated Water in Queens Is a Repeat Performance Uli Seit for The New York Times Water lines being flushed out by the Department of Environmental Protection on Springfield Boulevard near 110th Avenue in Cambria Heights, Queens. Traces of tetrachloroethylene were found there last week. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 The area in Queens where city officials found an industrial chemical in the drinking water last week has had problems with contamination by the same chemical for several years. The chemical — tetrachloroethylene, which is commonly used by dry cleaners and auto repair shops — has been detected sporadically in the water in Cambria Heights, Hollis and St. Albans every year since at least 2003, according to the New York City Department of Environmental Protection’s annual reports of drinking water quality. Anne Canty, the department’s deputy commissioner, said that testing yesterday detected continuing contamination, though at somewhat lower concentrations. Ten of 26 recent samples still contained traces of the colorless chemical, which has a sharp, sweet odor and is also known as perc. According to the federal , people who drink water containing tetrachloroethylene over many years can develop liver problems and may have an increased risk of . In New York City, the chemical is also considered an airborne hazard because many dry cleaners are inside residential buildings where fumes can seep through ceilings and walls. The city’s Department of Health and Mental Hygiene does not consider the amount of tetrachloroethylene in the water a serious health problem. People who remain concerned have been told to use bottled water for cooking and drinking and to take shorter showers. The contamination was detected last week during routine water testing. The city is required to notify water users if the average level of the chemical detected in water exceeds 5 parts per billion. As testing continued this week, some readings were as high as 13 parts per billion, more than double the maximum safe level. But as of late yesterday, the average level of the chemical had dropped to 3.7 parts per billion. Most of New York City gets drinking water from reservoirs 100 or more miles away and has not had a problem with the dry cleaning chemicals. But a five-and-a-half-mile section of southeastern Queens, which includes the area where the contamination was found, is sometimes served by a system of wells that are 100 to 360 feet deep. The wells belonged to a private water company until they were taken over by the city in 1996. Many have become contaminated with a variety of pollutants, including tetrachloroethylene, and can no longer be used. In 2005, five wells were in use, providing the neighborhood’s 100,000 residents with 2.2 million gallons of water a day, about 1 percent of the total used citywide every day. The wells had to be shut in February after pumps failed. The city plans to build a treatment plant for the wells, but construction is not scheduled to begin before 2009. Officials said that despite the recurring problem, they believed that the contaminated water found this week did not come from wells. An analysis of the chemical content of water indicated that it came from the main water system, officials said. Ms. Canty said water quality experts suspected that the current problem began with a faulty valve that failed to keep a small amount of chemical discharge from backing up into the drinking water system. Inspectors had checked about 300 dry cleaners and auto repair shops by midday yesterday, but the source of contamination was not discovered. In the meantime, Ms. Canty said, hydrants in the area were being flushed and the city expected the problem to be cleared up in a few days. In 2003, at least one sample of the well water in Queens exceeded 17 parts per billion. In both 2004 and 2005, tetrachloroethylene was detected in several samples and sometimes exceeded the safe level. But advisories were not issued in either year because the average of at least two consecutive readings fell below 5 parts per billion. Next Article in New York Region (6 of 29) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: MEADOWMERE; Big-Time Resentments In a Tiny Pocket of Queens Ocean Dumping Is Ending, but Not Problems; New York Can't Ship, Bury or Burn Its Sludge, but No One Wants a Processing Plant Pact Reached To Save Water In New York Medical Waste Shuts Jacob Riis Park Beach Next Article in New York Region (6 of 29) &#x00bb; A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Trams in the Fog, 2005 Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/washington/11fda.html?ex=1336536000&en=f8d09648edfc236a&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Passage of Drug Safety Bill Was Common Goal for Two Very Different Senators - New York Times Passage of Drug Safety Bill Was Common Goal for Two Very Different Senators Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 WASHINGTON, May 10 &#151; Legislation to beef up drug safety, passed by the Senate this week with only one dissenting vote, grew out of an extraordinary pact between two senators and a frantic effort by the pharmaceutical industry to avoid any disruption in the approval of new drugs. The bill would increase the fees paid by drug makers to help finance the work of the Food and Drug Administration and would give the agency new power to police company conduct. Industry lobbyists and executives said they supported the bill for one overriding reason: pink slips. Sometime this summer, if a bill has not passed, medical officers at the F.D.A. will start getting notices that they are in danger of being laid off by the end of the fiscal year on Sept. 30. Some of those officers are likely to be in the midst of reviewing new drug applications crucial to the future of drug makers. If those medical officers leave, drug approvals may be delayed &#151; a terrifying prospect for many companies. &#8220;The last thing we want is for F.D.A. employees to start thinking they may not have a job and start leaving,&#8221; said Alan R. Goldhammer, deputy vice president of Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America, a trade group for brand-name drug companies. In addition, many in the drug industry said they supported the bill because they believed that it would help restore public confidence in the nation&#8217;s drug supply. &#8220;There has been a loss of confidence in the F.D.A., and we can&#8217;t afford to have that,&#8221; said Dr. Joseph M. Feczko, Pfizer&#8217;s chief medical officer. &#8220;When our medicines come out, we want people to understand they have gone through a rigorous review process.&#8221; Under the bill, the F.D.A. could impose civil fines on companies that violated a drug safety plan or ran false or misleading advertisements. But major drug makers said they would comply with federal requirements, so the agency would not have reason to impose penalties on them. , Democrat of Massachusetts, was chief sponsor of the legislation, but Senator Michael B. Enzi, Republican of Wyoming, was equally responsible for its contents. In an unusual display of bipartisanship, they worked together to fend off amendments that would have made the bill unacceptable to the White House, raised the ire of the pharmaceutical industry or jeopardized chances for passage. &#8220;Kennedy and I have developed a trust,&#8221; Mr. Enzi said in an interview. &#8220;We don&#8217;t try to run over each other. We have a history of passing bills &#151; 27 signed by the president in the last two years.&#8221; An earlier version of the legislation was introduced by Mr. Enzi last August, when controlled Congress and he was chairman of the Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor and Pensions. When Democrats took control this year and Mr. Kennedy became chairman of the committee, he kept his compact with Mr. Enzi. Working together, they steered the legislation through the committee and the full Senate. Along the way, they accepted dozens of changes proposed by lawmakers of both parties. Mr. Enzi, an accountant and former owner of a shoe store, was mayor of Gillette, Wyo., and served 10 years in the State Legislature. His quiet manner could hardly differ more from that of Mr. Kennedy. Mr. Enzi is as conservative as Mr. Kennedy is liberal. But both are pragmatic legislative craftsmen. Mr. Enzi was recruited into politics by former Senator Alan K. Simpson, another Wyoming Republican who collaborated with Mr. Kennedy on many issues, including In an interview, Mr. Simpson said: &#8220;Mike is a legislator. He&#8217;s calm. He&#8217;s steady. He&#8217;s not a partisan kook or anything of that nature.&#8221; Mr. Simpson said Mr. Enzi and Mr. Kennedy had &#8220;a mutual admiration society, built on trust, respect and friendship, with none of the savage partisanship&#8221; found elsewhere in American politics. Mr. Enzi holds the Senate seat once held by Mr. Simpson and his father, Milward L. Simpson, who entered the Senate on the same day as Mr. Kennedy, Nov. 7, 1962. &#8220;Teddy loved my dad,&#8221; said Mr. Simpson, who nurtured the relationship between Mr. Enzi and Mr. Kennedy. , Republican of New Hampshire, voted against the drug safety bill in the committee, but worked with Mr. Kennedy and Mr. Enzi to make changes that won his support for the legislation on the floor. &#8220;There&#8217;s a Ted Kennedy who is quite flamboyant and partisan in the theater of the Senate,&#8221; Mr. Gregg said in an interview. &#8220;And there is a Ted Kennedy who is extremely bipartisan and willing to work with people in the back rooms of the Senate.&#8221; Industry officials breathed a huge sigh of relief when the Senate approved an amendment offered by Senator Thad Cochran, Republican of Mississippi, that would effectively maintain the current ban on imported drugs. Drug makers fiercely oppose efforts to legalize imports of lower-cost medicines from Canada and other countries. Having won that fight, drug company executives said, they decided not to fight other provisions that they saw as less threatening. &#8220;They need to pick their battles,&#8221; said Barbara Ryan, a pharmaceutical industry analyst at Deutsche Bank Securities. &#8220;Anything that doesn&#8217;t interfere with pricing and approvals is not going to hurt them seriously.&#8221; Still, many advocates, including some who support the bill&#8217;s passage, said the legislation was not the answer to the nation&#8217;s drug safety problems. &#8220;We have horrible leadership at the F.D.A., and they don&#8217;t even use the authorities they already have,&#8221; said Dr. Steven Nissen, chairman of the department of cardiovascular medicine at the Cleveland Clinic. More Articles in Washington &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Senate Vote Upholds Drug Import Limits Court Strikes Law Barring Sale of Drug Data Break Seen In Logjam Over Trade A State's Files Put Doctors' Ties To Drug Makers on Close View More Articles in Washington &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/health/10psyche.html?ex=1336449600&en=027f7583aa3fc3c4&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role - New York Times Mental Health & Behavior Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry’s Role Fabrizio Costantini for The New York Times Anya Bailey is among a growing number of children given antipsychotic drugs by doctors who are paid by the makers of those drugs. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This By GARDINER HARRIS, BENEDICT CAREY and JANET ROBERTS Published: May 10, 2007 When Anya Bailey developed an after her 12th birthday, her mother took her to a psychiatrist at the who prescribed a powerful antipsychotic drug called Risperdal. Skip to next paragraph The New York Times , Risperdal is not approved to treat eating disorders, but increased appetite is a common side effect and doctors may prescribe drugs as they see fit. Anya gained weight but within two years developed a crippling knot in her back. She now receives regular injections of Botox to unclench her back muscles. She often awakens crying in pain. Isabella Bailey, Anya’s mother, said she had no idea that children might be especially susceptible to Risperdal’s side effects. Nor did she know that Risperdal and similar medicines were not approved at the time to treat children, or that medical trials often cited to justify the use of such drugs had as few as eight children taking the drug by the end. Just as surprising, Ms. Bailey said, was learning that the university psychiatrist who supervised Anya’s care received more than $7,000 from 2003 to 2004 from Johnson & Johnson, Risperdal’s maker, in return for lectures about one of the company’s drugs. Doctors, including Anya Bailey’s, maintain that payments from drug companies do not influence what they prescribe for patients. But the intersection of money and medicine, and its effect on the well-being of patients, has become one of the most contentious issues in health care. Nowhere is that more true than in psychiatry, where increasing payments to doctors have coincided with the growing use in children of a relatively new class of drugs known as atypical antipsychotics. These best-selling drugs, including Risperdal, Seroquel, Zyprexa, Abilify and Geodon, are now being prescribed to more than half a million children in the United States to help parents deal with behavior problems despite profound risks and almost no approved uses for minors. A New York Times analysis of records in Minnesota, the only state that requires public reports of all drug company marketing payments to doctors, provides rare documentation of how financial relationships between doctors and drug makers correspond to the growing use of atypicals in children. From 2000 to 2005, drug maker payments to Minnesota psychiatrists rose more than sixfold, to $1.6 million. During those same years, prescriptions of antipsychotics for children in Minnesota’s Medicaid program rose more than ninefold. Those who took the most money from makers of atypicals tended to prescribe the drugs to children the most often, the data suggest. On average, Minnesota psychiatrists who received at least $5,000 from atypical makers from 2000 to 2005 appear to have written three times as many atypical prescriptions for children as psychiatrists who received less or no money. The Times analysis focused on prescriptions written for about one-third of Minnesota’s Medicaid population, almost all of whom are disabled. Some doctors were misidentified by pharmacists, but the information provides a rough guide to prescribing patterns in the state. Drug makers underwrite decision makers at every level of care. They pay doctors who prescribe and recommend drugs, teach about the underlying diseases, perform studies and write guidelines that other doctors often feel bound to follow. But studies present strong evidence that financial interests can affect decisions, often without people knowing it. In Minnesota, psychiatrists collected more money from drug makers from 2000 to 2005 than doctors in any other specialty. Total payments to individual psychiatrists ranged from $51 to more than $689,000, with a median of $1,750. Since the records are incomplete, these figures probably underestimate doctors’ actual incomes. Such payments could encourage psychiatrists to use drugs in ways that endanger patients’ physical health, said Dr. Steven E. Hyman, the provost of and former director of the National Institute of Mental Health. The growing use of atypicals in children is the most troubling example of this, Dr. Hyman said. “There’s an irony that psychiatrists ask patients to have insights into themselves, but we don’t connect the wires in our own lives about how money is affecting our profession and putting our patients at risk,” he said. Anya Bailey is a 15-year-old high school freshman from East Grand Forks, Minn., with pictures of the actor Chad Michael Murray on her bedroom wall. She has constant discomfort in her neck that leads her to twist it in a birdlike fashion. Last year, a boy mimicked her in the lunch room. “The first time, I laughed it off,” Anya said. “I said: ‘That’s so funny. I think I’ll laugh with you.’ Then it got annoying, and I decided to hide it. I don’t want to be made fun of.” Now she slumps when seated at school to pressure her clenched muscles, she said. It all began in 2003 when Anya became dangerously thin. “Nothing tasted good to her,” Ms. Bailey said. This article is by Gardiner Harris, Benedict Carey and Janet Roberts. Next Article in Health (3 of 15) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Johnson & Johnson Inc Next Article in Health (3 of 15) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » Everything you need to know about heart disease Hip resurfacing: is it right for you? The changing attitudes towards "chemo brain" Treating the awkward years Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/health/11heartweb.html?ex=1336536000&en=a6d34bf9f04bd9e0&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Electric Pulses, Instead of Shocks, Can Help Heart Patients - New York Times Mental Health & Behavior Electric Pulses, Instead of Shocks, Can Help Heart Patients Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 DENVER, May 10 — Many heart patients who believe that their lives have been saved by shocks from implanted could have survived without a jolt from the devices, according to research presented here today at a meeting of heart specialists. The devices can safely be programmed instead to rely on pacemaking features, which deliver a stream of electric pulses that patients do not feel, in many situations where they currently deliver the shocks, the study concluded. In fact, the data suggested that programming the devices to ignore some irregularities in a patient’s heartbeat and thus to deliver shocks less frequently might actually save lives. The study comes on top of well-known data that 80 percent or more of the patients who receive the defibrillators as protection against a seizure never need a shock. Now, with the new study concluding that even when the devices are thought to be saving lives they might be doing so in an unnecessarily harsh way, doctors are likely to be more worried than ever about their inability to figure out when patients truly need the devices and how best to use them. “A lot of these shocks should be classified as inappropriate,” said Dr. Bruce L. Wilkoff, a defibrillator expert from the Cleveland Clinic Foundation who was the lead investigator and who presented the study results. Commenting on the lower death rate in the group of 700 patients whose devices were programmed to give shocks in fewer situations, Dr. Wilkoff said the difference was not statistically significant enough to ensure that the study’s approach was safer. But the trends in the data raised questions about whether unnecessary shocks weaken hearts in ways that raise the risks of death or hospitalization, he said. The new study was sponsored by Medtronic, the leading manufacturer of implanted defibrillators. It reflected the struggle among doctors to figure out the best uses of the expensive defibrillators. Other studies presented at the meeting explored specialized stress tests and minute differences in the behavior of hearts that might pinpoint which patients are most at risk of sudden cardiac arrest if they do not get defibrillators. The devices, which consist of a pocket-watch-size generator implanted in the chest and one to three leads inserted into the heart, cost as much as $50,000 to implant. Major clinical trials have shown that hundreds of thousands of Americans annually suffer from heart conditions — mainly a sharply reduced capacity to pump blood — that put them at risk for the kinds of breakdowns the defibrillators are designed to manage. Doctors believe that thousands of lives have been saved by the devices and that they should be more widely used. But the inability to figure out which patients are most at risk has slowed growth in the market, which was also hit in 2005 by news of malfunctions linked to a handful of deaths. Guidant, the manufacturer of the deadly devices, compounded the negative reaction by failing to disclose the problems promptly. Not all of the research reported here was weighty. The Heart Rhythm Society, the medical group that runs the annual meeting, also highlighted a small study by a Michigan high school student demonstrating that iPods can disrupt some functions of standard pacemakers when they are placed in a shirt pocket. The biggest impact among the 100 patients tested was a case in which the iPod caused the pacemaker to skip a few beats. Jay Thaker, the 17 year-old student who came up with the idea for the study, worked at with Dr. Krit Jongnarangsin, who has since moved to the The study was the first to focus on portable music players but did not surprise anyone at the meeting because of numerous studies in the past showing that other devices like cell phones have similar effects. Patients who get implants are routinely warned about exposure to a wide range of consumer electronics, airport screening machines and other devices that generate electromagnetic fields. Next Article in Health (1 of 15) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. U.S. Approves Improvements For Implants Defibrillator Maker Props Up Stress Test Company Growing Debate As Doctors Train On New Devices TECHNOLOGY; U.S. Shields Doctor Data In Implants Next Article in Health (1 of 15) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » Everything you need to know about heart disease Hip resurfacing: is it right for you? The changing attitudes towards "chemo brain" Treating the awkward years THE NEW YORK TIMES GUIDE TO ESSENTIAL KNOWLEDGE Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/health/11anemia.html?ex=1336536000&en=64815775ee883add&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	F.D.A. Panel Seeks Limits on Cancer Patient Drugs - New York Times Mental Health & Behavior F.D.A. Panel Seeks Limits on Cancer Patient Drugs Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 SILVER SPRING, Md., May 10 &#151; Bowing to safety concerns, government medical advisers urged on Thursday that additional restrictions be put on the use of drugs that treat The recommendations by an advisory committee to the Food and Drug Administration followed a flurry of studies suggesting that the drugs, meant to help patients cope with , might actually be making their cancer worse or hastening their deaths. The drugs &#151; Aranesp from Amgen and Procrit from Johnson &#38; Johnson &#151; are used by about a half-million American cancer patients a year and have billions of dollars in annual sales. Some members of the committee expressed shock that even though Procrit was first approved 14 years ago, it was still not clear if the drugs were safe at the doses typically used. &#8220;Yes, we have a burning question,&#8221; one panel member, Dr. Silvana Martino, an oncologist in Santa Monica, Calif., said at the meeting here. &#8220;Do these things kill people?&#8221; Most of the studies showing a risk involved use of the drugs at doses higher than doctors typically give them. That left the committee with the question of what to do about use of the drugs at the usual doses until more data become available. The F.D.A. has already clamped down on the drugs. In March it put strict new warnings on the labels, saying the products should be used at the smallest dosage that lets anemic patients avoid blood transfusions. But the panel&#8217;s votes Thursday portend even further restrictions. The committee voted 12 to 5, for instance, that the drugs should be barred from use by patients with certain types of cancer until more is known about their safety. While the committee did not specify which types, several members mentioned , non-small cell lung cancer and head and neck cancer. The committee voted 15 to 2 that there should be more restrictions in general if the drugs remain on the market, and 17 to 0 that more studies were needed. And it voted 16 to 1 that anemia therapy should be stopped when chemotherapy is finished. But in one victory for the drug makers, the committee voted 11 to 6 against lowering the ceiling on how much the anemia should be corrected. The labels now say that a patient&#8217;s hemoglobin, the oxygen-carrying component of red blood cells, should not be raised to more than 12 grams per deciliter of blood. The F.D.A. usually follows the recommendations of such panels. Dr. Richard Pazdur, director of the agency&#8217;s cancer drug division, said Thursday he could not say yet when or how the agency would act. The two drugs, along with another Amgen drug, Epogen, are also used to treat anemia caused by kidney disease, but yesterday&#8217;s meeting concerned only cancer treatment. Another hearing dealing with kidney disease will be held early in the fall. The panel&#8217;s recommendations were a particular blow to Amgen, which last year took in nearly half its $14.3 billion in revenue from the anemia drugs. Johnson &#38; Johnson is far larger and more diversified than Amgen, and so is less dependent on Procrit sales. &#8220;I think it&#8217;s worse than what investors expected,&#8221; Michael Aberman, an analyst who follows Amgen for Credit Suisse, said after the meeting. Amgen&#8217;s stock fell $5.77, or more than 9 percent, to close at $57.33. Trish Hawkins, an Amgen spokeswoman, said in a statement, &#8220;We will be working with the F.D.A. as they consider the committee&#8217;s recommendations.&#8221; The drugs, known generically as darbepoetin and epoetin, were approved to reduce the need for blood transfusions in patients with anemia from chemotherapy. Many doctors and patients believe the drugs fight fatigue and improve patients&#8217; daily lives, although the F.D.A. said it did not find studies with persuasive evidence of such benefits. A panel member from , Dr. Otis Brawley, said some doctors overprescribed the drugs because they made money from doing so. Doctors can sometimes receive more from insurers than they pay for the drugs, especially if they receive rebates from the manufacturers. Dr. Brawley said the drug companies had not done proper studies, and at one point asked them, &#8220;What data do you have to assure me that this is not Miracle-Gro for cancer?&#8221; The staff of the F.D.A. was also critical of the companies, saying they had not provided data they had promised when a similar advisory panel meeting was held in 2004. The companies and their advocates argued that ample data showed the drugs were safe when used properly, except for a long-known risk of increased blood clots. They also argued that the drugs had significant benefits. Forcing cancer patients to go back to transfusions, they said, would expose the patients to risks and inconvenience and further strain the nation&#8217;s already taxed blood supply. That sentiment was also voiced by some committee members. &#8220;I think the idea of going back to the dark ages in regards to supportive care is a step backward,&#8221; said Dr. S. Gail Eckhardt of the , the panel&#8217;s chairman. Advisory panel meetings often feature eloquent pleas from patients that a drug be approved or kept on the market. But there was not a big outpouring of support for the anemia drugs. In fact, some patients expressed dismay at how the drugs were used. &#8220;How is it possible that what was meant to help me might actually have made things worse?&#8221; said Lilla Romeo, who has had breast cancer since 1995. Next Article in Health (2 of 15) &#x00bb; Gain access to The Archive - get it now with TimesSelect To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. MARKET PLACE; Amgen Seeks To Reverse Its Bad News ImClone's Drug Fails in Pancreatic Cancer Study F.D.A. Approves Glaxo Cancer Drug Studies Show Anemia Drugs May Harm Cancer Patients Food and Drug Administration Next Article in Health (2 of 15) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » Everything you need to know about heart disease Hip resurfacing: is it right for you? The changing attitudes towards "chemo brain" Treating the awkward years Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/us/11milk.html	Dairy Council to End Ad Campaign That Linked Drinking Milk With Weight Loss - New York Times Dairy Council to End Ad Campaign That Linked Drinking Milk With Weight Loss Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 A national advertising campaign that associates dairy products with weight loss will be curtailed because research does not support the claim, according to the Federal Trade Commission. The advertisements, conceived by the promotional arm of the dairy industry and overseen by the Agriculture Department, feature slogans like &#8220;Milk your . Lose weight!&#8221; and suggest that three servings of dairy products a day can help people be slim. The effort includes a campaign called &#8220;Body by Milk&#8221; that is aimed at teenagers. It features Alex Rodriguez, the third baseman for the New York Yankees, and Carrie Underwood, an &#8220;American Idol&#8221; winner. The assertion that there is a link between weight loss and dairy consumption has long been contested by the Physicians Committee for Responsible Medicine, an advocacy and research group that promotes a diet free of animal products. The group petitioned the F.T.C. in 2005 to argue that the advertisements were misleading. In a May 3 letter to the group, Lydia Parnes, director of the agency&#8217;s Bureau of Consumer Protection, said Agriculture Department representatives and milk producers and processors had agreed to change the advertisements and related marketing materials &#8220;until further research provides stronger, more conclusive evidence of an association between dairy consumption and weight loss.&#8221; As of Thursday, the National Dairy Council still had a section of its Web site devoted to the weight-loss claim. But the site, along with some of the advertisements, will be changed, said Greg Miller, who is executive vice president of the council and has a doctorate in nutrition. &#8220;Like any other marketing campaign, after time you want to freshen them up and give the consumers what&#8217;s new,&#8221; Mr. Miller said. &#8220;That&#8217;s what&#8217;s happening here.&#8221; Dr. Neal Barnard, president of the group that brought the matter to the F.T.C., said it would continue to press the dairy industry on other claims, which include the assertion that calcium helps prevent bone fractures in older women. &#8220;I think people will start to recognize that the dairy industry, which used to have a mom-and-pop image, is a huge commercial entity that will exaggerate to sell its products,&#8221; Dr. Barnard said. Mr. Miller said most medical professionals agreed that dairy contributed to overall bone health and could help people maintain a healthy weight. &#8220;I think there&#8217;s a minority of people out there that just have very loud voices,&#8221; he said. &#8220;This is a vegan group that doesn&#8217;t want anyone to eat dairy.&#8221; Dairy products were upgraded in the 2005 revision of federal dietary guidelines, which recommended that people consume more low-fat milk and dairy products. An advisory committee that helped set the guidelines cited a report, partly financed by the dairy industry, which found that low-fat dairy products did not necessarily add to weight gain and that dairy products have certain nutrients that can help consumers meet dietary recommendations. The guidelines increased the amount of low-fat or fat-free dairy products to three cups a day, up from two cups. The dairy council is allowed to continue to use wording from those guidelines that says adults and children should not avoid milk and milk products because of concerns that they may lead to weight gain, the letter from the F.T.C. said. Marion Nestle, a professor of nutrition at , said the agreement to modify the advertisements was groundbreaking. In her book, &#8220;What to Eat,&#8221; she argued that lobbying by the $50 billion dairy industry could sometimes cloud policy on nutrition. Though Ms. Nestle said she ate dairy products regularly and did not dispute their nutritional value, she said people could have a healthy diet without them. &#8220;Those ads were ridiculously misleading,&#8221; she said. More Articles in National &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. THE NATION; Thinning the Milk Does Not Mean Thinning the Child Bodegas Are Asked by Health Officials to Help Push a Better Diet in Poorer Neighborhoods ADVERTISING; Chug Milk, Shed Pounds? Not So Fast PERSONAL HEALTH; Of Mice, Men and 'Magic' Diet Supplements More Articles in National &#x00bb; A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer East Harlem Swimming Pool, 2004 Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/pages/health/index.html?partner=rssnyt	Health News - New York Times Mental Health & Behavior Electric Pulses, Instead of Shocks, Can Help Heart Patients Many heart patients who believe that their lives have been saved by shocks from implanted defibrillators could have survived without the jolt, new research shows. Passage of Drug Safety Bill Was Common Goal for Two Very Different Senators By ROBERT PEAR and GARDINER HARRIS Senators Edward M. Kennedy and Michael B. Enzi worked together in an unusual display of bipartisanship to make the bill passable. F.D.A. Panel Seeks Limits on Cancer Patient Drugs Bowing to safety concerns, government medical advisers urged on Thursday that additional restrictions be put on the use of drugs that treat anemia in cancer patients. Dairy Council to End Ad Campaign That Linked Drinking Milk With Weight Loss A national advertising campaign that associates dairy products with weight loss will be curtailed because research does not support the claim. Contaminated Water in Queens Is a Repeat Performance The area where city officials found an industrial chemical in the drinking water last week has had problems with contamination by the same chemical for several years. Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry’s Role By GARDINER HARRIS, BENEDICT CAREY and JANET ROBERTS The intersection of money and medicine has become one of the most contentious issues in psychiatry. Senate Approves Tighter Policing of Drug Makers The bill would give the F.D.A. new power to police drug safety, order changes in labels and regulate ads. Legislators Ask to Revise Plan for Hospitals Leaders of the State Legislature said that they wanted Gov. Eliot Spitzer to reconsider a plan approved last year to close, merge or shrink dozens of hospitals across the state. Doctors Reap Millions for Anemia Drugs The DNA Age: Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Massachusetts Proposes Stem Cell Research Grants Chinese Company Linked to Deaths Wasn’t Licensed Clinton Foundation Announces a Bargain on Generic AIDS Drugs Advertising: Telling Dieters a Pill Works Only if They Work, Too Jury Is Still Out on Gluten, the Latest Dietary Villain Study Links Rescuers’ Lung Ailment to Trade Center Collapse Personal Health: Deciphering the Results of a Prostate Test Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Cases: The Struggle to Move Beyond ‘Why Me?’ Really? : The Claim: Aspirin Can Reduce the Risk of Alzheimer’s Disease Essay: A Moment of Revelation, Preserved in a Test Stick Study Suggests Meditation Can Help Train Attention China Tells Little About Illness That Kills Pigs, Officials Say Vital Signs: Adolescence: No Link to Promiscuity Found in Youths Using Condoms Vital Signs: Patterns: Early Menarche Linked to Heavier Children Vital Signs: Child Care: Regular Television Time Starts for Many at 3 Months Vital Signs: At Risk: Study Shows Flu Season Increases Heart Ailments Report on Child Deaths Finds Some Hope in Poorest Nations Johnson & Johnson Won’t Seek Approval for a Heart Stent Energy Drink Is Withdrawn Over Concerns About Name : Going Against the Flow A birth control pill designed to eliminate the monthly period may hit the market soon. : Choosing Hip Resurfacing Keith McDonald underwent hip resurfacing surgery, a newer alternative to total hip replacement. : A Persistent Problem Keith Orr's story illustrates the reasons that heart disease still kills more Americans than any other disease. The Yoga Therapist Will See You Now A Healthy Mix of Rest and Motion Methods Used by Insurers Are Questioned Small Businesses’ Premiums Soar After Illness MENTAL HEALTH & BEHAVIOR» Stress on Troops Adds to U.S. Hurdles in Iraq Depression Raises Risk of Diabetes, Study Finds Some parents of children with Down syndrome want prospective parents to know the positive side of raising a child with the genetic condition. The Yoga Therapist Will See You Now Are one-on-one yoga classes effective physical therapy? Blogging for Truth and Beauty Dr. Robert Oliver Jr., a plastic surgeon in Birmingham, Ala., started his blog plasticsurgery101.blogspot, and has used it to question everything from so-called fat-melting injections to implants. Jane Brody, "Personal Health" columnist, discusses the latest health news. Sports of The Times Stealth Killer Puts Doctor on Mission With N.F.L. For the past four years, Dr. Arthur Roberts, a record-setting pass-slinger at Columbia, has been studying football’s struggle against cardiovascular disease. A user's guide to diagnostic tests. What you need to know about procedures and diagnoses for six major diseases. Go to Special Section » News from AP &#x00bb; FDA Panel Wants More Anemia Drug Studies FTC Says Milk Ads Under Fire Are Ending DIET: Thin People May Be Fat Inside Milk Ads Under Fire Are Ending DIET: Thin People May Be Fat Inside Merck Problem Means Extra Shot for Kids Browse All Health Topics Select a Health Topic Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS) Dietary Supplements and Herbal Remedies Food Contamination and Poisoning Human Papilloma Virus (HPV) Mental Health and Disorders Post Traumatic Stress Disorder SARS (Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome) Seasonal Affective Disorder (SAD) Sexually Transmitted Diseases (STDs) Sudden Infant Death Syndrome Suicides and Suicide Attempts Health & Fitness Tools What's your score? » Calorie Calculator for Goal Weight What's your limit? » MOST POPULAR - HEALTH Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside F.D.A. Panel Seeks Limits on Cancer Patient Drugs Electric Pulses, Instead of Shocks, Can Help Heart Patients Jury Is Still Out on Gluten, the Latest Dietary Villain Study Suggests Meditation Can Help Train Attention Personal Health: Deciphering the Results of a Prostate Test Cases: The Struggle to Move Beyond &#8216;Why Me?&#8217; Vital Signs: Child Care: Regular Television Time Starts for Many at 3 Months Chemotherapy Fog Is No Longer Ignored as Illusion Go to Complete List » Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Psychiatrists, Troubled Children and Drug Industry's Role Child Care: Regular Television Time Starts for Many at 3 Months The Struggle to Move Beyond â€˜Why Me?' Adolescence: No Link to Promiscuity Found in Youths Using Condoms Epilepsy Drug Can Increase Risk for Newborns, Study Says Go to Complete List » Everything you need to know about heart disease Hip resurfacing: is it right for you? The changing attitudes towards "chemo brain" Treating the awkward years Tell us your nursing story. Inspiration & lessons. What’s new on Broadway? Be Prepared. For Your Major Purchase. Browse movie reviews from 1913. What’s new in technology? Photos, fine art, books and more. The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/health/11anemia.html	F.D.A. Panel Seeks Limits on Cancer Patient Drugs - New York Times Mental Health & Behavior F.D.A. Panel Seeks Limits on Cancer Patient Drugs Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 SILVER SPRING, Md., May 10 &#151; Bowing to safety concerns, government medical advisers urged on Thursday that additional restrictions be put on the use of drugs that treat The recommendations by an advisory committee to the Food and Drug Administration followed a flurry of studies suggesting that the drugs, meant to help patients cope with , might actually be making their cancer worse or hastening their deaths. The drugs &#151; Aranesp from Amgen and Procrit from Johnson &#38; Johnson &#151; are used by about a half-million American cancer patients a year and have billions of dollars in annual sales. Some members of the committee expressed shock that even though Procrit was first approved 14 years ago, it was still not clear if the drugs were safe at the doses typically used. &#8220;Yes, we have a burning question,&#8221; one panel member, Dr. Silvana Martino, an oncologist in Santa Monica, Calif., said at the meeting here. &#8220;Do these things kill people?&#8221; Most of the studies showing a risk involved use of the drugs at doses higher than doctors typically give them. That left the committee with the question of what to do about use of the drugs at the usual doses until more data become available. The F.D.A. has already clamped down on the drugs. In March it put strict new warnings on the labels, saying the products should be used at the smallest dosage that lets anemic patients avoid blood transfusions. But the panel&#8217;s votes Thursday portend even further restrictions. The committee voted 12 to 5, for instance, that the drugs should be barred from use by patients with certain types of cancer until more is known about their safety. While the committee did not specify which types, several members mentioned , non-small cell lung cancer and head and neck cancer. The committee voted 15 to 2 that there should be more restrictions in general if the drugs remain on the market, and 17 to 0 that more studies were needed. And it voted 16 to 1 that anemia therapy should be stopped when chemotherapy is finished. But in one victory for the drug makers, the committee voted 11 to 6 against lowering the ceiling on how much the anemia should be corrected. The labels now say that a patient&#8217;s hemoglobin, the oxygen-carrying component of red blood cells, should not be raised to more than 12 grams per deciliter of blood. The F.D.A. usually follows the recommendations of such panels. Dr. Richard Pazdur, director of the agency&#8217;s cancer drug division, said Thursday he could not say yet when or how the agency would act. The two drugs, along with another Amgen drug, Epogen, are also used to treat anemia caused by kidney disease, but yesterday&#8217;s meeting concerned only cancer treatment. Another hearing dealing with kidney disease will be held early in the fall. The panel&#8217;s recommendations were a particular blow to Amgen, which last year took in nearly half its $14.3 billion in revenue from the anemia drugs. Johnson &#38; Johnson is far larger and more diversified than Amgen, and so is less dependent on Procrit sales. &#8220;I think it&#8217;s worse than what investors expected,&#8221; Michael Aberman, an analyst who follows Amgen for Credit Suisse, said after the meeting. Amgen&#8217;s stock fell $5.77, or more than 9 percent, to close at $57.33. Trish Hawkins, an Amgen spokeswoman, said in a statement, &#8220;We will be working with the F.D.A. as they consider the committee&#8217;s recommendations.&#8221; The drugs, known generically as darbepoetin and epoetin, were approved to reduce the need for blood transfusions in patients with anemia from chemotherapy. Many doctors and patients believe the drugs fight fatigue and improve patients&#8217; daily lives, although the F.D.A. said it did not find studies with persuasive evidence of such benefits. A panel member from , Dr. Otis Brawley, said some doctors overprescribed the drugs because they made money from doing so. Doctors can sometimes receive more from insurers than they pay for the drugs, especially if they receive rebates from the manufacturers. Dr. Brawley said the drug companies had not done proper studies, and at one point asked them, &#8220;What data do you have to assure me that this is not Miracle-Gro for cancer?&#8221; The staff of the F.D.A. was also critical of the companies, saying they had not provided data they had promised when a similar advisory panel meeting was held in 2004. The companies and their advocates argued that ample data showed the drugs were safe when used properly, except for a long-known risk of increased blood clots. They also argued that the drugs had significant benefits. Forcing cancer patients to go back to transfusions, they said, would expose the patients to risks and inconvenience and further strain the nation&#8217;s already taxed blood supply. That sentiment was also voiced by some committee members. &#8220;I think the idea of going back to the dark ages in regards to supportive care is a step backward,&#8221; said Dr. S. Gail Eckhardt of the , the panel&#8217;s chairman. Advisory panel meetings often feature eloquent pleas from patients that a drug be approved or kept on the market. But there was not a big outpouring of support for the anemia drugs. In fact, some patients expressed dismay at how the drugs were used. &#8220;How is it possible that what was meant to help me might actually have made things worse?&#8221; said Lilla Romeo, who has had breast cancer since 1995. Next Article in Health (2 of 15) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. MARKET PLACE; Amgen Seeks To Reverse Its Bad News ImClone's Drug Fails in Pancreatic Cancer Study F.D.A. Approves Glaxo Cancer Drug Studies Show Anemia Drugs May Harm Cancer Patients Food and Drug Administration Next Article in Health (2 of 15) &#x00bb; Everything you need to know about heart disease Hip resurfacing: is it right for you? The changing attitudes towards "chemo brain" Treating the awkward years Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/washington/11fda.html	Passage of Drug Safety Bill Was Common Goal for Two Very Different Senators - New York Times Passage of Drug Safety Bill Was Common Goal for Two Very Different Senators Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 WASHINGTON, May 10 &#151; Legislation to beef up drug safety, passed by the Senate this week with only one dissenting vote, grew out of an extraordinary pact between two senators and a frantic effort by the pharmaceutical industry to avoid any disruption in the approval of new drugs. The bill would increase the fees paid by drug makers to help finance the work of the Food and Drug Administration and would give the agency new power to police company conduct. Industry lobbyists and executives said they supported the bill for one overriding reason: pink slips. Sometime this summer, if a bill has not passed, medical officers at the F.D.A. will start getting notices that they are in danger of being laid off by the end of the fiscal year on Sept. 30. Some of those officers are likely to be in the midst of reviewing new drug applications crucial to the future of drug makers. If those medical officers leave, drug approvals may be delayed &#151; a terrifying prospect for many companies. &#8220;The last thing we want is for F.D.A. employees to start thinking they may not have a job and start leaving,&#8221; said Alan R. Goldhammer, deputy vice president of Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America, a trade group for brand-name drug companies. In addition, many in the drug industry said they supported the bill because they believed that it would help restore public confidence in the nation&#8217;s drug supply. &#8220;There has been a loss of confidence in the F.D.A., and we can&#8217;t afford to have that,&#8221; said Dr. Joseph M. Feczko, Pfizer&#8217;s chief medical officer. &#8220;When our medicines come out, we want people to understand they have gone through a rigorous review process.&#8221; Under the bill, the F.D.A. could impose civil fines on companies that violated a drug safety plan or ran false or misleading advertisements. But major drug makers said they would comply with federal requirements, so the agency would not have reason to impose penalties on them. , Democrat of Massachusetts, was chief sponsor of the legislation, but Senator Michael B. Enzi, Republican of Wyoming, was equally responsible for its contents. In an unusual display of bipartisanship, they worked together to fend off amendments that would have made the bill unacceptable to the White House, raised the ire of the pharmaceutical industry or jeopardized chances for passage. &#8220;Kennedy and I have developed a trust,&#8221; Mr. Enzi said in an interview. &#8220;We don&#8217;t try to run over each other. We have a history of passing bills &#151; 27 signed by the president in the last two years.&#8221; An earlier version of the legislation was introduced by Mr. Enzi last August, when controlled Congress and he was chairman of the Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor and Pensions. When Democrats took control this year and Mr. Kennedy became chairman of the committee, he kept his compact with Mr. Enzi. Working together, they steered the legislation through the committee and the full Senate. Along the way, they accepted dozens of changes proposed by lawmakers of both parties. Mr. Enzi, an accountant and former owner of a shoe store, was mayor of Gillette, Wyo., and served 10 years in the State Legislature. His quiet manner could hardly differ more from that of Mr. Kennedy. Mr. Enzi is as conservative as Mr. Kennedy is liberal. But both are pragmatic legislative craftsmen. Mr. Enzi was recruited into politics by former Senator Alan K. Simpson, another Wyoming Republican who collaborated with Mr. Kennedy on many issues, including In an interview, Mr. Simpson said: &#8220;Mike is a legislator. He&#8217;s calm. He&#8217;s steady. He&#8217;s not a partisan kook or anything of that nature.&#8221; Mr. Simpson said Mr. Enzi and Mr. Kennedy had &#8220;a mutual admiration society, built on trust, respect and friendship, with none of the savage partisanship&#8221; found elsewhere in American politics. Mr. Enzi holds the Senate seat once held by Mr. Simpson and his father, Milward L. Simpson, who entered the Senate on the same day as Mr. Kennedy, Nov. 7, 1962. &#8220;Teddy loved my dad,&#8221; said Mr. Simpson, who nurtured the relationship between Mr. Enzi and Mr. Kennedy. , Republican of New Hampshire, voted against the drug safety bill in the committee, but worked with Mr. Kennedy and Mr. Enzi to make changes that won his support for the legislation on the floor. &#8220;There&#8217;s a Ted Kennedy who is quite flamboyant and partisan in the theater of the Senate,&#8221; Mr. Gregg said in an interview. &#8220;And there is a Ted Kennedy who is extremely bipartisan and willing to work with people in the back rooms of the Senate.&#8221; Industry officials breathed a huge sigh of relief when the Senate approved an amendment offered by Senator Thad Cochran, Republican of Mississippi, that would effectively maintain the current ban on imported drugs. Drug makers fiercely oppose efforts to legalize imports of lower-cost medicines from Canada and other countries. Having won that fight, drug company executives said, they decided not to fight other provisions that they saw as less threatening. &#8220;They need to pick their battles,&#8221; said Barbara Ryan, a pharmaceutical industry analyst at Deutsche Bank Securities. &#8220;Anything that doesn&#8217;t interfere with pricing and approvals is not going to hurt them seriously.&#8221; Still, many advocates, including some who support the bill&#8217;s passage, said the legislation was not the answer to the nation&#8217;s drug safety problems. &#8220;We have horrible leadership at the F.D.A., and they don&#8217;t even use the authorities they already have,&#8221; said Dr. Steven Nissen, chairman of the department of cardiovascular medicine at the Cleveland Clinic. More Articles in Washington &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Senate Vote Upholds Drug Import Limits Court Strikes Law Barring Sale of Drug Data Break Seen In Logjam Over Trade A State's Files Put Doctors' Ties To Drug Makers on Close View More Articles in Washington &#x00bb; A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/us/11milk.html?ex=1336536000&en=579284b9d162b729&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Dairy Council to End Ad Campaign That Linked Drinking Milk With Weight Loss - New York Times Dairy Council to End Ad Campaign That Linked Drinking Milk With Weight Loss Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 A national advertising campaign that associates dairy products with weight loss will be curtailed because research does not support the claim, according to the Federal Trade Commission. The advertisements, conceived by the promotional arm of the dairy industry and overseen by the Agriculture Department, feature slogans like &#8220;Milk your . Lose weight!&#8221; and suggest that three servings of dairy products a day can help people be slim. The effort includes a campaign called &#8220;Body by Milk&#8221; that is aimed at teenagers. It features Alex Rodriguez, the third baseman for the New York Yankees, and Carrie Underwood, an &#8220;American Idol&#8221; winner. The assertion that there is a link between weight loss and dairy consumption has long been contested by the Physicians Committee for Responsible Medicine, an advocacy and research group that promotes a diet free of animal products. The group petitioned the F.T.C. in 2005 to argue that the advertisements were misleading. In a May 3 letter to the group, Lydia Parnes, director of the agency&#8217;s Bureau of Consumer Protection, said Agriculture Department representatives and milk producers and processors had agreed to change the advertisements and related marketing materials &#8220;until further research provides stronger, more conclusive evidence of an association between dairy consumption and weight loss.&#8221; As of Thursday, the National Dairy Council still had a section of its Web site devoted to the weight-loss claim. But the site, along with some of the advertisements, will be changed, said Greg Miller, who is executive vice president of the council and has a doctorate in nutrition. &#8220;Like any other marketing campaign, after time you want to freshen them up and give the consumers what&#8217;s new,&#8221; Mr. Miller said. &#8220;That&#8217;s what&#8217;s happening here.&#8221; Dr. Neal Barnard, president of the group that brought the matter to the F.T.C., said it would continue to press the dairy industry on other claims, which include the assertion that calcium helps prevent bone fractures in older women. &#8220;I think people will start to recognize that the dairy industry, which used to have a mom-and-pop image, is a huge commercial entity that will exaggerate to sell its products,&#8221; Dr. Barnard said. Mr. Miller said most medical professionals agreed that dairy contributed to overall bone health and could help people maintain a healthy weight. &#8220;I think there&#8217;s a minority of people out there that just have very loud voices,&#8221; he said. &#8220;This is a vegan group that doesn&#8217;t want anyone to eat dairy.&#8221; Dairy products were upgraded in the 2005 revision of federal dietary guidelines, which recommended that people consume more low-fat milk and dairy products. An advisory committee that helped set the guidelines cited a report, partly financed by the dairy industry, which found that low-fat dairy products did not necessarily add to weight gain and that dairy products have certain nutrients that can help consumers meet dietary recommendations. The guidelines increased the amount of low-fat or fat-free dairy products to three cups a day, up from two cups. The dairy council is allowed to continue to use wording from those guidelines that says adults and children should not avoid milk and milk products because of concerns that they may lead to weight gain, the letter from the F.T.C. said. Marion Nestle, a professor of nutrition at , said the agreement to modify the advertisements was groundbreaking. In her book, &#8220;What to Eat,&#8221; she argued that lobbying by the $50 billion dairy industry could sometimes cloud policy on nutrition. Though Ms. Nestle said she ate dairy products regularly and did not dispute their nutritional value, she said people could have a healthy diet without them. &#8220;Those ads were ridiculously misleading,&#8221; she said. More Articles in National &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. THE NATION; Thinning the Milk Does Not Mean Thinning the Child Bodegas Are Asked by Health Officials to Help Push a Better Diet in Poorer Neighborhoods ADVERTISING; Chug Milk, Shed Pounds? Not So Fast PERSONAL HEALTH; Of Mice, Men and 'Magic' Diet Supplements More Articles in National &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Bush in Accord With Democrats on Trade Deals President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds Role of F.B.I. Informer Draws Praise and Questions On Carrier in Gulf, Cheney Issues Warning to Iran Romney Works to Put Skeptics' Doubts to Rest Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/us/11milk.html?ex=1336536000&en=579284b9d162b729&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Dairy Council to End Ad Campaign That Linked Drinking Milk With Weight Loss - New York Times Dairy Council to End Ad Campaign That Linked Drinking Milk With Weight Loss Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 A national advertising campaign that associates dairy products with weight loss will be curtailed because research does not support the claim, according to the Federal Trade Commission. The advertisements, conceived by the promotional arm of the dairy industry and overseen by the Agriculture Department, feature slogans like &#8220;Milk your . Lose weight!&#8221; and suggest that three servings of dairy products a day can help people be slim. The effort includes a campaign called &#8220;Body by Milk&#8221; that is aimed at teenagers. It features Alex Rodriguez, the third baseman for the New York Yankees, and Carrie Underwood, an &#8220;American Idol&#8221; winner. The assertion that there is a link between weight loss and dairy consumption has long been contested by the Physicians Committee for Responsible Medicine, an advocacy and research group that promotes a diet free of animal products. The group petitioned the F.T.C. in 2005 to argue that the advertisements were misleading. In a May 3 letter to the group, Lydia Parnes, director of the agency&#8217;s Bureau of Consumer Protection, said Agriculture Department representatives and milk producers and processors had agreed to change the advertisements and related marketing materials &#8220;until further research provides stronger, more conclusive evidence of an association between dairy consumption and weight loss.&#8221; As of Thursday, the National Dairy Council still had a section of its Web site devoted to the weight-loss claim. But the site, along with some of the advertisements, will be changed, said Greg Miller, who is executive vice president of the council and has a doctorate in nutrition. &#8220;Like any other marketing campaign, after time you want to freshen them up and give the consumers what&#8217;s new,&#8221; Mr. Miller said. &#8220;That&#8217;s what&#8217;s happening here.&#8221; Dr. Neal Barnard, president of the group that brought the matter to the F.T.C., said it would continue to press the dairy industry on other claims, which include the assertion that calcium helps prevent bone fractures in older women. &#8220;I think people will start to recognize that the dairy industry, which used to have a mom-and-pop image, is a huge commercial entity that will exaggerate to sell its products,&#8221; Dr. Barnard said. Mr. Miller said most medical professionals agreed that dairy contributed to overall bone health and could help people maintain a healthy weight. &#8220;I think there&#8217;s a minority of people out there that just have very loud voices,&#8221; he said. &#8220;This is a vegan group that doesn&#8217;t want anyone to eat dairy.&#8221; Dairy products were upgraded in the 2005 revision of federal dietary guidelines, which recommended that people consume more low-fat milk and dairy products. An advisory committee that helped set the guidelines cited a report, partly financed by the dairy industry, which found that low-fat dairy products did not necessarily add to weight gain and that dairy products have certain nutrients that can help consumers meet dietary recommendations. The guidelines increased the amount of low-fat or fat-free dairy products to three cups a day, up from two cups. The dairy council is allowed to continue to use wording from those guidelines that says adults and children should not avoid milk and milk products because of concerns that they may lead to weight gain, the letter from the F.T.C. said. Marion Nestle, a professor of nutrition at , said the agreement to modify the advertisements was groundbreaking. In her book, &#8220;What to Eat,&#8221; she argued that lobbying by the $50 billion dairy industry could sometimes cloud policy on nutrition. Though Ms. Nestle said she ate dairy products regularly and did not dispute their nutritional value, she said people could have a healthy diet without them. &#8220;Those ads were ridiculously misleading,&#8221; she said. More Articles in National &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. THE NATION; Thinning the Milk Does Not Mean Thinning the Child Bodegas Are Asked by Health Officials to Help Push a Better Diet in Poorer Neighborhoods ADVERTISING; Chug Milk, Shed Pounds? Not So Fast PERSONAL HEALTH; Of Mice, Men and 'Magic' Diet Supplements More Articles in National &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Bush in Accord With Democrats on Trade Deals President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds Role of F.B.I. Informer Draws Praise and Questions On Carrier in Gulf, Cheney Issues Warning to Iran Romney Works to Put Skeptics' Doubts to Rest Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/12/us/12fingerprint.html?ex=1336622400&en=d1d8b41d8d48cf2b&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Doctor Grafted Skin to Aid Drug Dealers, U.S. Authorities Say - New York Times Doctor Grafted Skin to Aid Drug Dealers, U.S. Authorities Say Sign In to E-Mail or Save This By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS Published: May 12, 2007 HARRISBURG, Pa., May 11 (AP) &#151; A Mexican doctor surgically removed drug traffickers&#8217; fingerprints, substituting skin from the soles of their feet, to help the traffickers avoid arrest, the authorities said Friday. The doctor, Jos&#233; L. Covarrubias, was arrested at the Mexican border on Wednesday as he tried to enter the United Stated. He was indicted the same day in connection with a marijuana-dealing ring based here. The indictment says Dr. Covarrubias surgically removed the fingerprints of Marc George, a co-defendant named in the drug indictment. The doctor is believed to have performed the surgery for about four other people, said William Behe, an assistant United States attorney. &#8220;We heard those stories,&#8221; Mr. Behe said, &#8220;but we didn&#8217;t believe them when we heard them during the course of the investigation. We caught Marc George, and we all became believers.&#8221; Mr. Behe said Mr. George&#8217;s hands were still mangled from the procedure, which the authorities believe Dr. Covarrubias did in mid-2005. Dr. Covarrubias, 49, was charged with conspiring to distribute more than a ton of marijuana in central Pennsylvania and elsewhere and with being an accomplice and accessory after the fact to marijuana dealing. He is a Mexican citizen and lives in both Nogales, , and Nogales, Ariz. The charges are the result of an investigation into a drug ring based here. Thirty-four people have been charged, and 27 have pleaded guilty or are expected to plead guilty. Mr. George, 42, of Jamaica, was indicted on charges of money laundering and drug trafficking. It could not immediately determined if Dr. Covarrubias has a lawyer. A telephone message left for Mr. George&#8217;s lawyer brought no reply. More Articles in National &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. World Briefing | Americas: Mexico: Drug Dealers Attack The Military IN TRANSIT; Acapulco Reinforces Spring Break Security National Briefing | Washington: Record Drug Bust National Briefing | Southwest: Texas: Shots Fired At Border Agents Drug Abuse and Traffic More Articles in National &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Bush in Accord With Democrats on Trade Deals President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds Role of F.B.I. Informer Draws Praise and Questions On Carrier in Gulf, Cheney Issues Warning to Iran Romney Works to Put Skeptics' Doubts to Rest Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/12/us/12fingerprint.html?ex=1336622400&en=d1d8b41d8d48cf2b&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Doctor Grafted Skin to Aid Drug Dealers, U.S. Authorities Say - New York Times Doctor Grafted Skin to Aid Drug Dealers, U.S. Authorities Say Sign In to E-Mail or Save This By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS Published: May 12, 2007 HARRISBURG, Pa., May 11 (AP) &#151; A Mexican doctor surgically removed drug traffickers&#8217; fingerprints, substituting skin from the soles of their feet, to help the traffickers avoid arrest, the authorities said Friday. The doctor, Jos&#233; L. Covarrubias, was arrested at the Mexican border on Wednesday as he tried to enter the United Stated. He was indicted the same day in connection with a marijuana-dealing ring based here. The indictment says Dr. Covarrubias surgically removed the fingerprints of Marc George, a co-defendant named in the drug indictment. The doctor is believed to have performed the surgery for about four other people, said William Behe, an assistant United States attorney. &#8220;We heard those stories,&#8221; Mr. Behe said, &#8220;but we didn&#8217;t believe them when we heard them during the course of the investigation. We caught Marc George, and we all became believers.&#8221; Mr. Behe said Mr. George&#8217;s hands were still mangled from the procedure, which the authorities believe Dr. Covarrubias did in mid-2005. Dr. Covarrubias, 49, was charged with conspiring to distribute more than a ton of marijuana in central Pennsylvania and elsewhere and with being an accomplice and accessory after the fact to marijuana dealing. He is a Mexican citizen and lives in both Nogales, , and Nogales, Ariz. The charges are the result of an investigation into a drug ring based here. Thirty-four people have been charged, and 27 have pleaded guilty or are expected to plead guilty. Mr. George, 42, of Jamaica, was indicted on charges of money laundering and drug trafficking. It could not immediately determined if Dr. Covarrubias has a lawyer. A telephone message left for Mr. George&#8217;s lawyer brought no reply. More Articles in National &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. World Briefing | Americas: Mexico: Drug Dealers Attack The Military IN TRANSIT; Acapulco Reinforces Spring Break Security National Briefing | Washington: Record Drug Bust National Briefing | Southwest: Texas: Shots Fired At Border Agents Drug Abuse and Traffic More Articles in National &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Bush in Accord With Democrats on Trade Deals President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds Role of F.B.I. Informer Draws Praise and Questions On Carrier in Gulf, Cheney Issues Warning to Iran Romney Works to Put Skeptics' Doubts to Rest Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/pages/health/index.html	Health News - New York Times Mental Health & Behavior In New Hampshire, Soft Sell Eases Vaccine Fears Cheryl Senter/The New York Times Sophia Wheat, 16, of Hooksett, N.H., being given an HPV vaccination this month at Sanders Family Medicine in Concord, N.H. The demand for a free vaccine against cervical cancer has been so high that physicians can’t satisfy all the requests. Doctor Grafted Skin to Aid Drug Dealers, U.S. Authorities Say By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS A Mexican doctor removed drug traffickers’ fingerprints, substituting skin from their feet, to help the traffickers avoid arrest, authorities said. Electric Pulses, Instead of Shocks, Can Help Heart Patients Many heart patients who believe that their lives have been saved by shocks from implanted defibrillators could have survived without the jolt, new research shows. Passage of Drug Safety Bill Was Common Goal for Two Very Different Senators By ROBERT PEAR and GARDINER HARRIS Senators Edward M. Kennedy and Michael B. Enzi worked together in an unusual display of bipartisanship to make the bill passable. F.D.A. Panel Seeks Limits on Cancer Patient Drugs Bowing to safety concerns, government medical advisers urged on Thursday that additional restrictions be put on the use of drugs that treat anemia in cancer patients. Dairy Council to End Ad Campaign That Linked Drinking Milk With Weight Loss A national advertising campaign that associates dairy products with weight loss will be curtailed because research does not support the claim. Contaminated Water in Queens Is a Repeat Performance The area where city officials found an industrial chemical in the drinking water last week has had problems with contamination by the same chemical for several years. Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry’s Role By GARDINER HARRIS, BENEDICT CAREY and JANET ROBERTS The intersection of money and medicine has become one of the most contentious issues in psychiatry. Senate Approves Tighter Policing of Drug Makers The bill would give the F.D.A. new power to police drug safety, order changes in labels and regulate ads. Legislators Ask to Revise Plan for Hospitals Leaders of the State Legislature said that they wanted Gov. Eliot Spitzer to reconsider a plan approved last year to close, merge or shrink dozens of hospitals across the state. Doctors Reap Millions for Anemia Drugs The DNA Age: Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Massachusetts Proposes Stem Cell Research Grants Chinese Company Linked to Deaths Wasn’t Licensed Clinton Foundation Announces a Bargain on Generic AIDS Drugs Advertising: Telling Dieters a Pill Works Only if They Work, Too Jury Is Still Out on Gluten, the Latest Dietary Villain Study Links Rescuers’ Lung Ailment to Trade Center Collapse Personal Health: Deciphering the Results of a Prostate Test Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Cases: The Struggle to Move Beyond ‘Why Me?’ Really? : The Claim: Aspirin Can Reduce the Risk of Alzheimer’s Disease Essay: A Moment of Revelation, Preserved in a Test Stick Study Suggests Meditation Can Help Train Attention China Tells Little About Illness That Kills Pigs, Officials Say Vital Signs: Adolescence: No Link to Promiscuity Found in Youths Using Condoms Vital Signs: Patterns: Early Menarche Linked to Heavier Children Vital Signs: Child Care: Regular Television Time Starts for Many at 3 Months Vital Signs: At Risk: Study Shows Flu Season Increases Heart Ailments Report on Child Deaths Finds Some Hope in Poorest Nations Johnson & Johnson Won’t Seek Approval for a Heart Stent Energy Drink Is Withdrawn Over Concerns About Name : Going Against the Flow A birth control pill designed to eliminate the monthly period may hit the market soon. : Choosing Hip Resurfacing Keith McDonald underwent hip resurfacing surgery, a newer alternative to total hip replacement. : A Persistent Problem Keith Orr's story illustrates the reasons that heart disease still kills more Americans than any other disease. The Yoga Therapist Will See You Now A Healthy Mix of Rest and Motion Methods Used by Insurers Are Questioned Small Businesses’ Premiums Soar After Illness MENTAL HEALTH & BEHAVIOR» Stress on Troops Adds to U.S. Hurdles in Iraq Depression Raises Risk of Diabetes, Study Finds Some parents of children with Down syndrome want prospective parents to know the positive side of raising a child with the genetic condition. The Yoga Therapist Will See You Now Are one-on-one yoga classes effective physical therapy? Blogging for Truth and Beauty Dr. Robert Oliver Jr., a plastic surgeon in Birmingham, Ala., started his blog plasticsurgery101.blogspot, and has used it to question everything from so-called fat-melting injections to implants. Jane Brody, "Personal Health" columnist, discusses the latest health news. Sports of The Times Stealth Killer Puts Doctor on Mission With N.F.L. For the past four years, Dr. Arthur Roberts, a record-setting pass-slinger at Columbia, has been studying football’s struggle against cardiovascular disease. A user's guide to diagnostic tests. What you need to know about procedures and diagnoses for six major diseases. Go to Special Section » News from AP &#x00bb; Minnesota Lawmakers Pass Smoking Ban New Plan Would Mandate HIV Tests in N.J. N.J. Plan Would Mandate HIV Tests Groups Work With Researchers, Drug Cos. DIET: Thin People May Be Fat Inside FDA Panel Wants More Anemia Drug Studies Browse All Health Topics Select a Health Topic Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS) Dietary Supplements and Herbal Remedies Food Contamination and Poisoning Human Papilloma Virus (HPV) Mental Health and Disorders Post Traumatic Stress Disorder SARS (Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome) Seasonal Affective Disorder (SAD) Sexually Transmitted Diseases (STDs) Sudden Infant Death Syndrome Suicides and Suicide Attempts Health & Fitness Tools What's your score? » Calorie Calculator for Goal Weight What's your limit? » MOST POPULAR - HEALTH Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside In New Hampshire, Soft Sell Eases Vaccine Fears Electric Pulses, Instead of Shocks, Can Help Heart Patients F.D.A. Panel Seeks Limits on Cancer Patient Drugs Jury Is Still Out on Gluten, the Latest Dietary Villain Study Suggests Meditation Can Help Train Attention Cases: The Struggle to Move Beyond &#8216;Why Me?&#8217; Personal Health: Deciphering the Results of a Prostate Test Chemotherapy Fog Is No Longer Ignored as Illusion Go to Complete List » Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Psychiatrists, Troubled Children and Drug Industry's Role The Struggle to Move Beyond â€˜Why Me?' Adolescence: No Link to Promiscuity Found in Youths Using Condoms Child Care: Regular Television Time Starts for Many at 3 Months Go to Complete List » Everything you need to know about heart disease Hip resurfacing: is it right for you? The changing attitudes towards "chemo brain" Treating the awkward years Looking for a job? Be Prepared. For Your Major Purchase. Tell us your nursing story. Inspiration & lessons. Photos, fine art, books and more. Which gadget is getting all the buzz? The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/pages/health/index.html	Health News - New York Times Mental Health & Behavior In New Hampshire, Soft Sell Eases Vaccine Fears Cheryl Senter/The New York Times Sophia Wheat, 16, of Hooksett, N.H., being given an HPV vaccination this month at Sanders Family Medicine in Concord, N.H. The demand for a free vaccine against cervical cancer has been so high that physicians can’t satisfy all the requests. Doctor Grafted Skin to Aid Drug Dealers, U.S. Authorities Say By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS A Mexican doctor removed drug traffickers’ fingerprints, substituting skin from their feet, to help the traffickers avoid arrest, authorities said. Electric Pulses, Instead of Shocks, Can Help Heart Patients Many heart patients who believe that their lives have been saved by shocks from implanted defibrillators could have survived without the jolt, new research shows. Passage of Drug Safety Bill Was Common Goal for Two Very Different Senators By ROBERT PEAR and GARDINER HARRIS Senators Edward M. Kennedy and Michael B. Enzi worked together in an unusual display of bipartisanship to make the bill passable. F.D.A. Panel Seeks Limits on Cancer Patient Drugs Bowing to safety concerns, government medical advisers urged on Thursday that additional restrictions be put on the use of drugs that treat anemia in cancer patients. Dairy Council to End Ad Campaign That Linked Drinking Milk With Weight Loss A national advertising campaign that associates dairy products with weight loss will be curtailed because research does not support the claim. Contaminated Water in Queens Is a Repeat Performance The area where city officials found an industrial chemical in the drinking water last week has had problems with contamination by the same chemical for several years. Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry’s Role By GARDINER HARRIS, BENEDICT CAREY and JANET ROBERTS The intersection of money and medicine has become one of the most contentious issues in psychiatry. Senate Approves Tighter Policing of Drug Makers The bill would give the F.D.A. new power to police drug safety, order changes in labels and regulate ads. Legislators Ask to Revise Plan for Hospitals Leaders of the State Legislature said that they wanted Gov. Eliot Spitzer to reconsider a plan approved last year to close, merge or shrink dozens of hospitals across the state. Doctors Reap Millions for Anemia Drugs The DNA Age: Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Massachusetts Proposes Stem Cell Research Grants Chinese Company Linked to Deaths Wasn’t Licensed Clinton Foundation Announces a Bargain on Generic AIDS Drugs Advertising: Telling Dieters a Pill Works Only if They Work, Too Jury Is Still Out on Gluten, the Latest Dietary Villain Study Links Rescuers’ Lung Ailment to Trade Center Collapse Personal Health: Deciphering the Results of a Prostate Test Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Cases: The Struggle to Move Beyond ‘Why Me?’ Really? : The Claim: Aspirin Can Reduce the Risk of Alzheimer’s Disease Essay: A Moment of Revelation, Preserved in a Test Stick Study Suggests Meditation Can Help Train Attention China Tells Little About Illness That Kills Pigs, Officials Say Vital Signs: Adolescence: No Link to Promiscuity Found in Youths Using Condoms Vital Signs: Patterns: Early Menarche Linked to Heavier Children Vital Signs: Child Care: Regular Television Time Starts for Many at 3 Months Vital Signs: At Risk: Study Shows Flu Season Increases Heart Ailments Report on Child Deaths Finds Some Hope in Poorest Nations Johnson & Johnson Won’t Seek Approval for a Heart Stent Energy Drink Is Withdrawn Over Concerns About Name : Going Against the Flow A birth control pill designed to eliminate the monthly period may hit the market soon. : Choosing Hip Resurfacing Keith McDonald underwent hip resurfacing surgery, a newer alternative to total hip replacement. : A Persistent Problem Keith Orr's story illustrates the reasons that heart disease still kills more Americans than any other disease. The Yoga Therapist Will See You Now A Healthy Mix of Rest and Motion Methods Used by Insurers Are Questioned Small Businesses’ Premiums Soar After Illness MENTAL HEALTH & BEHAVIOR» Stress on Troops Adds to U.S. Hurdles in Iraq Depression Raises Risk of Diabetes, Study Finds Some parents of children with Down syndrome want prospective parents to know the positive side of raising a child with the genetic condition. The Yoga Therapist Will See You Now Are one-on-one yoga classes effective physical therapy? Blogging for Truth and Beauty Dr. Robert Oliver Jr., a plastic surgeon in Birmingham, Ala., started his blog plasticsurgery101.blogspot, and has used it to question everything from so-called fat-melting injections to implants. Jane Brody, "Personal Health" columnist, discusses the latest health news. Sports of The Times Stealth Killer Puts Doctor on Mission With N.F.L. For the past four years, Dr. Arthur Roberts, a record-setting pass-slinger at Columbia, has been studying football’s struggle against cardiovascular disease. A user's guide to diagnostic tests. What you need to know about procedures and diagnoses for six major diseases. Go to Special Section » News from AP &#x00bb; Minnesota Lawmakers Pass Smoking Ban New Plan Would Mandate HIV Tests in N.J. N.J. Plan Would Mandate HIV Tests Groups Work With Researchers, Drug Cos. DIET: Thin People May Be Fat Inside FDA Panel Wants More Anemia Drug Studies Browse All Health Topics Select a Health Topic Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS) Dietary Supplements and Herbal Remedies Food Contamination and Poisoning Human Papilloma Virus (HPV) Mental Health and Disorders Post Traumatic Stress Disorder SARS (Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome) Seasonal Affective Disorder (SAD) Sexually Transmitted Diseases (STDs) Sudden Infant Death Syndrome Suicides and Suicide Attempts Health & Fitness Tools What's your score? » Calorie Calculator for Goal Weight What's your limit? » MOST POPULAR - HEALTH Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside In New Hampshire, Soft Sell Eases Vaccine Fears Electric Pulses, Instead of Shocks, Can Help Heart Patients F.D.A. Panel Seeks Limits on Cancer Patient Drugs Jury Is Still Out on Gluten, the Latest Dietary Villain Study Suggests Meditation Can Help Train Attention Cases: The Struggle to Move Beyond &#8216;Why Me?&#8217; Personal Health: Deciphering the Results of a Prostate Test Chemotherapy Fog Is No Longer Ignored as Illusion Go to Complete List » Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Psychiatrists, Troubled Children and Drug Industry's Role The Struggle to Move Beyond â€˜Why Me?' Adolescence: No Link to Promiscuity Found in Youths Using Condoms Child Care: Regular Television Time Starts for Many at 3 Months Go to Complete List » Everything you need to know about heart disease Hip resurfacing: is it right for you? The changing attitudes towards "chemo brain" Treating the awkward years Looking for a job? Be Prepared. For Your Major Purchase. Tell us your nursing story. Inspiration & lessons. Photos, fine art, books and more. Which gadget is getting all the buzz? The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/12/us/12fingerprint.html	Doctor Grafted Skin to Aid Drug Dealers, U.S. Authorities Say - New York Times Doctor Grafted Skin to Aid Drug Dealers, U.S. Authorities Say Sign In to E-Mail or Save This By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS Published: May 12, 2007 HARRISBURG, Pa., May 11 (AP) &#151; A Mexican doctor surgically removed drug traffickers&#8217; fingerprints, substituting skin from the soles of their feet, to help the traffickers avoid arrest, the authorities said Friday. The doctor, Jos&#233; L. Covarrubias, was arrested at the Mexican border on Wednesday as he tried to enter the United Stated. He was indicted the same day in connection with a marijuana-dealing ring based here. The indictment says Dr. Covarrubias surgically removed the fingerprints of Marc George, a co-defendant named in the drug indictment. The doctor is believed to have performed the surgery for about four other people, said William Behe, an assistant United States attorney. &#8220;We heard those stories,&#8221; Mr. Behe said, &#8220;but we didn&#8217;t believe them when we heard them during the course of the investigation. We caught Marc George, and we all became believers.&#8221; Mr. Behe said Mr. George&#8217;s hands were still mangled from the procedure, which the authorities believe Dr. Covarrubias did in mid-2005. Dr. Covarrubias, 49, was charged with conspiring to distribute more than a ton of marijuana in central Pennsylvania and elsewhere and with being an accomplice and accessory after the fact to marijuana dealing. He is a Mexican citizen and lives in both Nogales, , and Nogales, Ariz. The charges are the result of an investigation into a drug ring based here. Thirty-four people have been charged, and 27 have pleaded guilty or are expected to plead guilty. Mr. George, 42, of Jamaica, was indicted on charges of money laundering and drug trafficking. It could not immediately determined if Dr. Covarrubias has a lawyer. A telephone message left for Mr. George&#8217;s lawyer brought no reply. More Articles in National &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. World Briefing | Americas: Mexico: Drug Dealers Attack The Military IN TRANSIT; Acapulco Reinforces Spring Break Security National Briefing | Washington: Record Drug Bust National Briefing | Southwest: Texas: Shots Fired At Border Agents Drug Abuse and Traffic More Articles in National &#x00bb; The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics Wright Brothers' Historic First Flight - 1903 N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/12/us/12fingerprint.html	Doctor Grafted Skin to Aid Drug Dealers, U.S. Authorities Say - New York Times Doctor Grafted Skin to Aid Drug Dealers, U.S. Authorities Say Sign In to E-Mail or Save This By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS Published: May 12, 2007 HARRISBURG, Pa., May 11 (AP) &#151; A Mexican doctor surgically removed drug traffickers&#8217; fingerprints, substituting skin from the soles of their feet, to help the traffickers avoid arrest, the authorities said Friday. The doctor, Jos&#233; L. Covarrubias, was arrested at the Mexican border on Wednesday as he tried to enter the United Stated. He was indicted the same day in connection with a marijuana-dealing ring based here. The indictment says Dr. Covarrubias surgically removed the fingerprints of Marc George, a co-defendant named in the drug indictment. The doctor is believed to have performed the surgery for about four other people, said William Behe, an assistant United States attorney. &#8220;We heard those stories,&#8221; Mr. Behe said, &#8220;but we didn&#8217;t believe them when we heard them during the course of the investigation. We caught Marc George, and we all became believers.&#8221; Mr. Behe said Mr. George&#8217;s hands were still mangled from the procedure, which the authorities believe Dr. Covarrubias did in mid-2005. Dr. Covarrubias, 49, was charged with conspiring to distribute more than a ton of marijuana in central Pennsylvania and elsewhere and with being an accomplice and accessory after the fact to marijuana dealing. He is a Mexican citizen and lives in both Nogales, , and Nogales, Ariz. The charges are the result of an investigation into a drug ring based here. Thirty-four people have been charged, and 27 have pleaded guilty or are expected to plead guilty. Mr. George, 42, of Jamaica, was indicted on charges of money laundering and drug trafficking. It could not immediately determined if Dr. Covarrubias has a lawyer. A telephone message left for Mr. George&#8217;s lawyer brought no reply. More Articles in National &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. World Briefing | Americas: Mexico: Drug Dealers Attack The Military IN TRANSIT; Acapulco Reinforces Spring Break Security National Briefing | Washington: Record Drug Bust National Briefing | Southwest: Texas: Shots Fired At Border Agents Drug Abuse and Traffic More Articles in National &#x00bb; The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics Wright Brothers' Historic First Flight - 1903 N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/health/11heartweb.html	Electric Pulses, Instead of Shocks, Can Help Heart Patients - New York Times Mental Health & Behavior Electric Pulses, Instead of Shocks, Can Help Heart Patients Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 DENVER, May 10 — Many heart patients who believe that their lives have been saved by shocks from implanted could have survived without a jolt from the devices, according to research presented here today at a meeting of heart specialists. The devices can safely be programmed instead to rely on pacemaking features, which deliver a stream of electric pulses that patients do not feel, in many situations where they currently deliver the shocks, the study concluded. In fact, the data suggested that programming the devices to ignore some irregularities in a patient’s heartbeat and thus to deliver shocks less frequently might actually save lives. The study comes on top of well-known data that 80 percent or more of the patients who receive the defibrillators as protection against a seizure never need a shock. Now, with the new study concluding that even when the devices are thought to be saving lives they might be doing so in an unnecessarily harsh way, doctors are likely to be more worried than ever about their inability to figure out when patients truly need the devices and how best to use them. “A lot of these shocks should be classified as inappropriate,” said Dr. Bruce L. Wilkoff, a defibrillator expert from the Cleveland Clinic Foundation who was the lead investigator and who presented the study results. Commenting on the lower death rate in the group of 700 patients whose devices were programmed to give shocks in fewer situations, Dr. Wilkoff said the difference was not statistically significant enough to ensure that the study’s approach was safer. But the trends in the data raised questions about whether unnecessary shocks weaken hearts in ways that raise the risks of death or hospitalization, he said. The new study was sponsored by Medtronic, the leading manufacturer of implanted defibrillators. It reflected the struggle among doctors to figure out the best uses of the expensive defibrillators. Other studies presented at the meeting explored specialized stress tests and minute differences in the behavior of hearts that might pinpoint which patients are most at risk of sudden cardiac arrest if they do not get defibrillators. The devices, which consist of a pocket-watch-size generator implanted in the chest and one to three leads inserted into the heart, cost as much as $50,000 to implant. Major clinical trials have shown that hundreds of thousands of Americans annually suffer from heart conditions — mainly a sharply reduced capacity to pump blood — that put them at risk for the kinds of breakdowns the defibrillators are designed to manage. Doctors believe that thousands of lives have been saved by the devices and that they should be more widely used. But the inability to figure out which patients are most at risk has slowed growth in the market, which was also hit in 2005 by news of malfunctions linked to a handful of deaths. Guidant, the manufacturer of the deadly devices, compounded the negative reaction by failing to disclose the problems promptly. Not all of the research reported here was weighty. The Heart Rhythm Society, the medical group that runs the annual meeting, also highlighted a small study by a Michigan high school student demonstrating that iPods can disrupt some functions of standard pacemakers when they are placed in a shirt pocket. The biggest impact among the 100 patients tested was a case in which the iPod caused the pacemaker to skip a few beats. Jay Thaker, the 17 year-old student who came up with the idea for the study, worked at with Dr. Krit Jongnarangsin, who has since moved to the The study was the first to focus on portable music players but did not surprise anyone at the meeting because of numerous studies in the past showing that other devices like cell phones have similar effects. Patients who get implants are routinely warned about exposure to a wide range of consumer electronics, airport screening machines and other devices that generate electromagnetic fields. Next Article in Health (2 of 16) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. U.S. Approves Improvements For Implants Defibrillator Maker Props Up Stress Test Company Growing Debate As Doctors Train On New Devices TECHNOLOGY; U.S. Shields Doctor Data In Implants Next Article in Health (2 of 16) &#x00bb; Everything you need to know about heart disease Hip resurfacing: is it right for you? The changing attitudes towards "chemo brain" Treating the awkward years THE NEW YORK TIMES GUIDE TO ESSENTIAL KNOWLEDGE N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/health/11heartweb.html	Electric Pulses, Instead of Shocks, Can Help Heart Patients - New York Times Mental Health & Behavior Electric Pulses, Instead of Shocks, Can Help Heart Patients Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 DENVER, May 10 — Many heart patients who believe that their lives have been saved by shocks from implanted could have survived without a jolt from the devices, according to research presented here today at a meeting of heart specialists. The devices can safely be programmed instead to rely on pacemaking features, which deliver a stream of electric pulses that patients do not feel, in many situations where they currently deliver the shocks, the study concluded. In fact, the data suggested that programming the devices to ignore some irregularities in a patient’s heartbeat and thus to deliver shocks less frequently might actually save lives. The study comes on top of well-known data that 80 percent or more of the patients who receive the defibrillators as protection against a seizure never need a shock. Now, with the new study concluding that even when the devices are thought to be saving lives they might be doing so in an unnecessarily harsh way, doctors are likely to be more worried than ever about their inability to figure out when patients truly need the devices and how best to use them. “A lot of these shocks should be classified as inappropriate,” said Dr. Bruce L. Wilkoff, a defibrillator expert from the Cleveland Clinic Foundation who was the lead investigator and who presented the study results. Commenting on the lower death rate in the group of 700 patients whose devices were programmed to give shocks in fewer situations, Dr. Wilkoff said the difference was not statistically significant enough to ensure that the study’s approach was safer. But the trends in the data raised questions about whether unnecessary shocks weaken hearts in ways that raise the risks of death or hospitalization, he said. The new study was sponsored by Medtronic, the leading manufacturer of implanted defibrillators. It reflected the struggle among doctors to figure out the best uses of the expensive defibrillators. Other studies presented at the meeting explored specialized stress tests and minute differences in the behavior of hearts that might pinpoint which patients are most at risk of sudden cardiac arrest if they do not get defibrillators. The devices, which consist of a pocket-watch-size generator implanted in the chest and one to three leads inserted into the heart, cost as much as $50,000 to implant. Major clinical trials have shown that hundreds of thousands of Americans annually suffer from heart conditions — mainly a sharply reduced capacity to pump blood — that put them at risk for the kinds of breakdowns the defibrillators are designed to manage. Doctors believe that thousands of lives have been saved by the devices and that they should be more widely used. But the inability to figure out which patients are most at risk has slowed growth in the market, which was also hit in 2005 by news of malfunctions linked to a handful of deaths. Guidant, the manufacturer of the deadly devices, compounded the negative reaction by failing to disclose the problems promptly. Not all of the research reported here was weighty. The Heart Rhythm Society, the medical group that runs the annual meeting, also highlighted a small study by a Michigan high school student demonstrating that iPods can disrupt some functions of standard pacemakers when they are placed in a shirt pocket. The biggest impact among the 100 patients tested was a case in which the iPod caused the pacemaker to skip a few beats. Jay Thaker, the 17 year-old student who came up with the idea for the study, worked at with Dr. Krit Jongnarangsin, who has since moved to the The study was the first to focus on portable music players but did not surprise anyone at the meeting because of numerous studies in the past showing that other devices like cell phones have similar effects. Patients who get implants are routinely warned about exposure to a wide range of consumer electronics, airport screening machines and other devices that generate electromagnetic fields. Next Article in Health (2 of 16) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. U.S. Approves Improvements For Implants Defibrillator Maker Props Up Stress Test Company Growing Debate As Doctors Train On New Devices TECHNOLOGY; U.S. Shields Doctor Data In Implants Next Article in Health (2 of 16) &#x00bb; Everything you need to know about heart disease Hip resurfacing: is it right for you? The changing attitudes towards "chemo brain" Treating the awkward years THE NEW YORK TIMES GUIDE TO ESSENTIAL KNOWLEDGE N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/washington/11fda.html?ex=1336536000&en=f8d09648edfc236a&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Passage of Drug Safety Bill Was Common Goal for Two Very Different Senators - New York Times Passage of Drug Safety Bill Was Common Goal for Two Very Different Senators Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 WASHINGTON, May 10 &#151; Legislation to beef up drug safety, passed by the Senate this week with only one dissenting vote, grew out of an extraordinary pact between two senators and a frantic effort by the pharmaceutical industry to avoid any disruption in the approval of new drugs. The bill would increase the fees paid by drug makers to help finance the work of the Food and Drug Administration and would give the agency new power to police company conduct. Industry lobbyists and executives said they supported the bill for one overriding reason: pink slips. Sometime this summer, if a bill has not passed, medical officers at the F.D.A. will start getting notices that they are in danger of being laid off by the end of the fiscal year on Sept. 30. Some of those officers are likely to be in the midst of reviewing new drug applications crucial to the future of drug makers. If those medical officers leave, drug approvals may be delayed &#151; a terrifying prospect for many companies. &#8220;The last thing we want is for F.D.A. employees to start thinking they may not have a job and start leaving,&#8221; said Alan R. Goldhammer, deputy vice president of Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America, a trade group for brand-name drug companies. In addition, many in the drug industry said they supported the bill because they believed that it would help restore public confidence in the nation&#8217;s drug supply. &#8220;There has been a loss of confidence in the F.D.A., and we can&#8217;t afford to have that,&#8221; said Dr. Joseph M. Feczko, Pfizer&#8217;s chief medical officer. &#8220;When our medicines come out, we want people to understand they have gone through a rigorous review process.&#8221; Under the bill, the F.D.A. could impose civil fines on companies that violated a drug safety plan or ran false or misleading advertisements. But major drug makers said they would comply with federal requirements, so the agency would not have reason to impose penalties on them. , Democrat of Massachusetts, was chief sponsor of the legislation, but Senator Michael B. Enzi, Republican of Wyoming, was equally responsible for its contents. In an unusual display of bipartisanship, they worked together to fend off amendments that would have made the bill unacceptable to the White House, raised the ire of the pharmaceutical industry or jeopardized chances for passage. &#8220;Kennedy and I have developed a trust,&#8221; Mr. Enzi said in an interview. &#8220;We don&#8217;t try to run over each other. We have a history of passing bills &#151; 27 signed by the president in the last two years.&#8221; An earlier version of the legislation was introduced by Mr. Enzi last August, when controlled Congress and he was chairman of the Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor and Pensions. When Democrats took control this year and Mr. Kennedy became chairman of the committee, he kept his compact with Mr. Enzi. Working together, they steered the legislation through the committee and the full Senate. Along the way, they accepted dozens of changes proposed by lawmakers of both parties. Mr. Enzi, an accountant and former owner of a shoe store, was mayor of Gillette, Wyo., and served 10 years in the State Legislature. His quiet manner could hardly differ more from that of Mr. Kennedy. Mr. Enzi is as conservative as Mr. Kennedy is liberal. But both are pragmatic legislative craftsmen. Mr. Enzi was recruited into politics by former Senator Alan K. Simpson, another Wyoming Republican who collaborated with Mr. Kennedy on many issues, including In an interview, Mr. Simpson said: &#8220;Mike is a legislator. He&#8217;s calm. He&#8217;s steady. He&#8217;s not a partisan kook or anything of that nature.&#8221; Mr. Simpson said Mr. Enzi and Mr. Kennedy had &#8220;a mutual admiration society, built on trust, respect and friendship, with none of the savage partisanship&#8221; found elsewhere in American politics. Mr. Enzi holds the Senate seat once held by Mr. Simpson and his father, Milward L. Simpson, who entered the Senate on the same day as Mr. Kennedy, Nov. 7, 1962. &#8220;Teddy loved my dad,&#8221; said Mr. Simpson, who nurtured the relationship between Mr. Enzi and Mr. Kennedy. , Republican of New Hampshire, voted against the drug safety bill in the committee, but worked with Mr. Kennedy and Mr. Enzi to make changes that won his support for the legislation on the floor. &#8220;There&#8217;s a Ted Kennedy who is quite flamboyant and partisan in the theater of the Senate,&#8221; Mr. Gregg said in an interview. &#8220;And there is a Ted Kennedy who is extremely bipartisan and willing to work with people in the back rooms of the Senate.&#8221; Industry officials breathed a huge sigh of relief when the Senate approved an amendment offered by Senator Thad Cochran, Republican of Mississippi, that would effectively maintain the current ban on imported drugs. Drug makers fiercely oppose efforts to legalize imports of lower-cost medicines from Canada and other countries. Having won that fight, drug company executives said, they decided not to fight other provisions that they saw as less threatening. &#8220;They need to pick their battles,&#8221; said Barbara Ryan, a pharmaceutical industry analyst at Deutsche Bank Securities. &#8220;Anything that doesn&#8217;t interfere with pricing and approvals is not going to hurt them seriously.&#8221; Still, many advocates, including some who support the bill&#8217;s passage, said the legislation was not the answer to the nation&#8217;s drug safety problems. &#8220;We have horrible leadership at the F.D.A., and they don&#8217;t even use the authorities they already have,&#8221; said Dr. Steven Nissen, chairman of the department of cardiovascular medicine at the Cleveland Clinic. More Articles in Washington &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Senate Vote Upholds Drug Import Limits Court Strikes Law Barring Sale of Drug Data Break Seen In Logjam Over Trade A State's Files Put Doctors' Ties To Drug Makers on Close View More Articles in Washington &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Bush in Accord With Democrats on Trade Deals President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds Role of F.B.I. Informer Draws Praise and Questions On Carrier in Gulf, Cheney Issues Warning to Iran Romney Works to Put Skeptics' Doubts to Rest Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/washington/11fda.html?ex=1336536000&en=f8d09648edfc236a&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Passage of Drug Safety Bill Was Common Goal for Two Very Different Senators - New York Times Passage of Drug Safety Bill Was Common Goal for Two Very Different Senators Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 WASHINGTON, May 10 &#151; Legislation to beef up drug safety, passed by the Senate this week with only one dissenting vote, grew out of an extraordinary pact between two senators and a frantic effort by the pharmaceutical industry to avoid any disruption in the approval of new drugs. The bill would increase the fees paid by drug makers to help finance the work of the Food and Drug Administration and would give the agency new power to police company conduct. Industry lobbyists and executives said they supported the bill for one overriding reason: pink slips. Sometime this summer, if a bill has not passed, medical officers at the F.D.A. will start getting notices that they are in danger of being laid off by the end of the fiscal year on Sept. 30. Some of those officers are likely to be in the midst of reviewing new drug applications crucial to the future of drug makers. If those medical officers leave, drug approvals may be delayed &#151; a terrifying prospect for many companies. &#8220;The last thing we want is for F.D.A. employees to start thinking they may not have a job and start leaving,&#8221; said Alan R. Goldhammer, deputy vice president of Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America, a trade group for brand-name drug companies. In addition, many in the drug industry said they supported the bill because they believed that it would help restore public confidence in the nation&#8217;s drug supply. &#8220;There has been a loss of confidence in the F.D.A., and we can&#8217;t afford to have that,&#8221; said Dr. Joseph M. Feczko, Pfizer&#8217;s chief medical officer. &#8220;When our medicines come out, we want people to understand they have gone through a rigorous review process.&#8221; Under the bill, the F.D.A. could impose civil fines on companies that violated a drug safety plan or ran false or misleading advertisements. But major drug makers said they would comply with federal requirements, so the agency would not have reason to impose penalties on them. , Democrat of Massachusetts, was chief sponsor of the legislation, but Senator Michael B. Enzi, Republican of Wyoming, was equally responsible for its contents. In an unusual display of bipartisanship, they worked together to fend off amendments that would have made the bill unacceptable to the White House, raised the ire of the pharmaceutical industry or jeopardized chances for passage. &#8220;Kennedy and I have developed a trust,&#8221; Mr. Enzi said in an interview. &#8220;We don&#8217;t try to run over each other. We have a history of passing bills &#151; 27 signed by the president in the last two years.&#8221; An earlier version of the legislation was introduced by Mr. Enzi last August, when controlled Congress and he was chairman of the Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor and Pensions. When Democrats took control this year and Mr. Kennedy became chairman of the committee, he kept his compact with Mr. Enzi. Working together, they steered the legislation through the committee and the full Senate. Along the way, they accepted dozens of changes proposed by lawmakers of both parties. Mr. Enzi, an accountant and former owner of a shoe store, was mayor of Gillette, Wyo., and served 10 years in the State Legislature. His quiet manner could hardly differ more from that of Mr. Kennedy. Mr. Enzi is as conservative as Mr. Kennedy is liberal. But both are pragmatic legislative craftsmen. Mr. Enzi was recruited into politics by former Senator Alan K. Simpson, another Wyoming Republican who collaborated with Mr. Kennedy on many issues, including In an interview, Mr. Simpson said: &#8220;Mike is a legislator. He&#8217;s calm. He&#8217;s steady. He&#8217;s not a partisan kook or anything of that nature.&#8221; Mr. Simpson said Mr. Enzi and Mr. Kennedy had &#8220;a mutual admiration society, built on trust, respect and friendship, with none of the savage partisanship&#8221; found elsewhere in American politics. Mr. Enzi holds the Senate seat once held by Mr. Simpson and his father, Milward L. Simpson, who entered the Senate on the same day as Mr. Kennedy, Nov. 7, 1962. &#8220;Teddy loved my dad,&#8221; said Mr. Simpson, who nurtured the relationship between Mr. Enzi and Mr. Kennedy. , Republican of New Hampshire, voted against the drug safety bill in the committee, but worked with Mr. Kennedy and Mr. Enzi to make changes that won his support for the legislation on the floor. &#8220;There&#8217;s a Ted Kennedy who is quite flamboyant and partisan in the theater of the Senate,&#8221; Mr. Gregg said in an interview. &#8220;And there is a Ted Kennedy who is extremely bipartisan and willing to work with people in the back rooms of the Senate.&#8221; Industry officials breathed a huge sigh of relief when the Senate approved an amendment offered by Senator Thad Cochran, Republican of Mississippi, that would effectively maintain the current ban on imported drugs. Drug makers fiercely oppose efforts to legalize imports of lower-cost medicines from Canada and other countries. Having won that fight, drug company executives said, they decided not to fight other provisions that they saw as less threatening. &#8220;They need to pick their battles,&#8221; said Barbara Ryan, a pharmaceutical industry analyst at Deutsche Bank Securities. &#8220;Anything that doesn&#8217;t interfere with pricing and approvals is not going to hurt them seriously.&#8221; Still, many advocates, including some who support the bill&#8217;s passage, said the legislation was not the answer to the nation&#8217;s drug safety problems. &#8220;We have horrible leadership at the F.D.A., and they don&#8217;t even use the authorities they already have,&#8221; said Dr. Steven Nissen, chairman of the department of cardiovascular medicine at the Cleveland Clinic. More Articles in Washington &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Senate Vote Upholds Drug Import Limits Court Strikes Law Barring Sale of Drug Data Break Seen In Logjam Over Trade A State's Files Put Doctors' Ties To Drug Makers on Close View More Articles in Washington &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Bush in Accord With Democrats on Trade Deals President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds Role of F.B.I. Informer Draws Praise and Questions On Carrier in Gulf, Cheney Issues Warning to Iran Romney Works to Put Skeptics' Doubts to Rest Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/health/11heartweb.html?ex=1336536000&en=a6d34bf9f04bd9e0&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Electric Pulses, Instead of Shocks, Can Help Heart Patients - New York Times Mental Health & Behavior Electric Pulses, Instead of Shocks, Can Help Heart Patients Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 DENVER, May 10 — Many heart patients who believe that their lives have been saved by shocks from implanted could have survived without a jolt from the devices, according to research presented here today at a meeting of heart specialists. The devices can safely be programmed instead to rely on pacemaking features, which deliver a stream of electric pulses that patients do not feel, in many situations where they currently deliver the shocks, the study concluded. In fact, the data suggested that programming the devices to ignore some irregularities in a patient’s heartbeat and thus to deliver shocks less frequently might actually save lives. The study comes on top of well-known data that 80 percent or more of the patients who receive the defibrillators as protection against a seizure never need a shock. Now, with the new study concluding that even when the devices are thought to be saving lives they might be doing so in an unnecessarily harsh way, doctors are likely to be more worried than ever about their inability to figure out when patients truly need the devices and how best to use them. “A lot of these shocks should be classified as inappropriate,” said Dr. Bruce L. Wilkoff, a defibrillator expert from the Cleveland Clinic Foundation who was the lead investigator and who presented the study results. Commenting on the lower death rate in the group of 700 patients whose devices were programmed to give shocks in fewer situations, Dr. Wilkoff said the difference was not statistically significant enough to ensure that the study’s approach was safer. But the trends in the data raised questions about whether unnecessary shocks weaken hearts in ways that raise the risks of death or hospitalization, he said. The new study was sponsored by Medtronic, the leading manufacturer of implanted defibrillators. It reflected the struggle among doctors to figure out the best uses of the expensive defibrillators. Other studies presented at the meeting explored specialized stress tests and minute differences in the behavior of hearts that might pinpoint which patients are most at risk of sudden cardiac arrest if they do not get defibrillators. The devices, which consist of a pocket-watch-size generator implanted in the chest and one to three leads inserted into the heart, cost as much as $50,000 to implant. Major clinical trials have shown that hundreds of thousands of Americans annually suffer from heart conditions — mainly a sharply reduced capacity to pump blood — that put them at risk for the kinds of breakdowns the defibrillators are designed to manage. Doctors believe that thousands of lives have been saved by the devices and that they should be more widely used. But the inability to figure out which patients are most at risk has slowed growth in the market, which was also hit in 2005 by news of malfunctions linked to a handful of deaths. Guidant, the manufacturer of the deadly devices, compounded the negative reaction by failing to disclose the problems promptly. Not all of the research reported here was weighty. The Heart Rhythm Society, the medical group that runs the annual meeting, also highlighted a small study by a Michigan high school student demonstrating that iPods can disrupt some functions of standard pacemakers when they are placed in a shirt pocket. The biggest impact among the 100 patients tested was a case in which the iPod caused the pacemaker to skip a few beats. Jay Thaker, the 17 year-old student who came up with the idea for the study, worked at with Dr. Krit Jongnarangsin, who has since moved to the The study was the first to focus on portable music players but did not surprise anyone at the meeting because of numerous studies in the past showing that other devices like cell phones have similar effects. Patients who get implants are routinely warned about exposure to a wide range of consumer electronics, airport screening machines and other devices that generate electromagnetic fields. Next Article in Health (2 of 16) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. U.S. Approves Improvements For Implants Defibrillator Maker Props Up Stress Test Company Growing Debate As Doctors Train On New Devices TECHNOLOGY; U.S. Shields Doctor Data In Implants Next Article in Health (2 of 16) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Bush in Accord With Democrats on Trade Deals President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds Role of F.B.I. Informer Draws Praise and Questions On Carrier in Gulf, Cheney Issues Warning to Iran Romney Works to Put Skeptics' Doubts to Rest Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » Everything you need to know about heart disease Hip resurfacing: is it right for you? The changing attitudes towards "chemo brain" Treating the awkward years N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/health/11heartweb.html?ex=1336536000&en=a6d34bf9f04bd9e0&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Electric Pulses, Instead of Shocks, Can Help Heart Patients - New York Times Mental Health & Behavior Electric Pulses, Instead of Shocks, Can Help Heart Patients Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 DENVER, May 10 — Many heart patients who believe that their lives have been saved by shocks from implanted could have survived without a jolt from the devices, according to research presented here today at a meeting of heart specialists. The devices can safely be programmed instead to rely on pacemaking features, which deliver a stream of electric pulses that patients do not feel, in many situations where they currently deliver the shocks, the study concluded. In fact, the data suggested that programming the devices to ignore some irregularities in a patient’s heartbeat and thus to deliver shocks less frequently might actually save lives. The study comes on top of well-known data that 80 percent or more of the patients who receive the defibrillators as protection against a seizure never need a shock. Now, with the new study concluding that even when the devices are thought to be saving lives they might be doing so in an unnecessarily harsh way, doctors are likely to be more worried than ever about their inability to figure out when patients truly need the devices and how best to use them. “A lot of these shocks should be classified as inappropriate,” said Dr. Bruce L. Wilkoff, a defibrillator expert from the Cleveland Clinic Foundation who was the lead investigator and who presented the study results. Commenting on the lower death rate in the group of 700 patients whose devices were programmed to give shocks in fewer situations, Dr. Wilkoff said the difference was not statistically significant enough to ensure that the study’s approach was safer. But the trends in the data raised questions about whether unnecessary shocks weaken hearts in ways that raise the risks of death or hospitalization, he said. The new study was sponsored by Medtronic, the leading manufacturer of implanted defibrillators. It reflected the struggle among doctors to figure out the best uses of the expensive defibrillators. Other studies presented at the meeting explored specialized stress tests and minute differences in the behavior of hearts that might pinpoint which patients are most at risk of sudden cardiac arrest if they do not get defibrillators. The devices, which consist of a pocket-watch-size generator implanted in the chest and one to three leads inserted into the heart, cost as much as $50,000 to implant. Major clinical trials have shown that hundreds of thousands of Americans annually suffer from heart conditions — mainly a sharply reduced capacity to pump blood — that put them at risk for the kinds of breakdowns the defibrillators are designed to manage. Doctors believe that thousands of lives have been saved by the devices and that they should be more widely used. But the inability to figure out which patients are most at risk has slowed growth in the market, which was also hit in 2005 by news of malfunctions linked to a handful of deaths. Guidant, the manufacturer of the deadly devices, compounded the negative reaction by failing to disclose the problems promptly. Not all of the research reported here was weighty. The Heart Rhythm Society, the medical group that runs the annual meeting, also highlighted a small study by a Michigan high school student demonstrating that iPods can disrupt some functions of standard pacemakers when they are placed in a shirt pocket. The biggest impact among the 100 patients tested was a case in which the iPod caused the pacemaker to skip a few beats. Jay Thaker, the 17 year-old student who came up with the idea for the study, worked at with Dr. Krit Jongnarangsin, who has since moved to the The study was the first to focus on portable music players but did not surprise anyone at the meeting because of numerous studies in the past showing that other devices like cell phones have similar effects. Patients who get implants are routinely warned about exposure to a wide range of consumer electronics, airport screening machines and other devices that generate electromagnetic fields. Next Article in Health (2 of 16) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. U.S. Approves Improvements For Implants Defibrillator Maker Props Up Stress Test Company Growing Debate As Doctors Train On New Devices TECHNOLOGY; U.S. Shields Doctor Data In Implants Next Article in Health (2 of 16) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Bush in Accord With Democrats on Trade Deals President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds Role of F.B.I. Informer Draws Praise and Questions On Carrier in Gulf, Cheney Issues Warning to Iran Romney Works to Put Skeptics' Doubts to Rest Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » Everything you need to know about heart disease Hip resurfacing: is it right for you? The changing attitudes towards "chemo brain" Treating the awkward years N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/12/health/12cancer.html?ex=1336622400&en=f431640f769472b5&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	In New Hampshire, Soft Sell Eases Vaccine Fears - New York Times Mental Health & Behavior In New Hampshire, Soft Sell Eases Vaccine Fears Cheryl Senter/The New York Times Sophia Wheat, 16, of Hooksett, N.H., being given an HPV vaccination this month at Sanders Family Medicine in Concord, N.H. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 12, 2007 CONCORD, N.H. — A vaccine for a sexually transmitted virus that causes cervical may be creating controversy across the country, but in physicians say so many people want it that they cannot satisfy the demand. Skip to next paragraph Cheryl Senter/The New York Times Gardasil, given in three doses over six months, costs $360. The New Hampshire experience contrasts sharply with that in many other states, where opponents have cited factors like the drug manufacturer’s profit motive and the fear that inoculating young girls will encourage them to be sexually active. New Hampshire has critics of the vaccine, too. But its health officials, wanting to encourage use of the vaccine, called Gardasil, say they have hit on an optimal method: making it voluntary and giving it free to girls ages 11 to 18. In many of the more than 20 states that are considering bills to require girls to be vaccinated, a backlash has developed. In , a lawmakers’ revolt overwhelmingly overturned Gov. ’s effort to mandate recently became the sole state with a law requiring the vaccine for girls entering the sixth grade but allowing parents to refuse shots for their children. In New Hampshire, where people wear their independent streaks with pride, “I suspect that we’re not seeing a significant controversy because there was a never a discussion about whether to make this mandatory,” said Greg Moore, a spokesman for the Health and Human Services Department “This is a different type of vaccine rollout than we have ever seen,” Mr. Moore said. “We usually have to bust our hump every September to convince people to get their Sanders Family Medicine in Concord has a four-month waiting list for the vaccine, which guards against four strains of the . Exeter Pediatric Associates, one of the state’s largest practices, has given out all 380 doses it was supplied by the state since January and has a long waiting list for the next month’s supply, Dr. Wendy Gladstone said. Penacook Family Physicians has devised an elaborate triage system. Ardell Currier, a nurse practitioner, said Penacook first vaccinated 18-year-olds and then younger girls who have been sexually active, take birth control and “have had an or have had health issues, particularly psychiatric conditions” that may make them more likely to have sex. “The ethical dilemma is whom do we give that vaccine to,” Ms. Currier said. New Hampshire is spending $4.9 million on Gardasil this year, said Dr. Jose Montero, the state epidemiologist. That is 28 percent of the state immunization budget, which obtains half its financing from federal money and half from private insurers, Dr. Montero said. The legislature does not have to vote on the program or appropriate money, he added. Money for other immunization programs was not reduced, he said. Since January, the state has distributed more than 14,000 doses and is trying to obtain more doses for physicians with waiting lists. Dr. Montero said he would evaluate whether to ask for more money to buy more vaccine. At least two other states, South Dakota and Washington, are echoing the program here. South Dakota began providing Gardasil free to the same age group in late January with $1.7 million approved by the Legislature and $7.5 million in federal money, Health Secretary Doneen Hollingsworth said. South Dakota is a relatively conservative state that tried last year to ban most abortions only to have the ban repealed in a referendum. Even so, when it came to the HPV vaccine, Ms. Hollingsworth said, “the naysayers, there weren’t a lot of them, and they weren’t terribly loud.” Ms. Hollingsworth said the state had provided almost 20,000 doses. “There’s been a tremendous amount of interest,” she added. “But I haven’t heard anything about anybody running out” of vaccine. In Washington, the Llegislature just approved $10 million for voluntary vaccination for 94,000 girls over the next two years. “We basically want to see as many people get this as possible,” said Tim Church, a spokesman for the Health Department who said Washington would primarily focus on 11- and 12-year-olds on the theory that it is best to be vaccinated before being sexually active. The cost of Gardasil, which is administered in three doses over six months, is normally $360. The federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommend it for ages 9 to 26. In New Hampshire, girls outside the 11-to-18 range of the free pool have to pay out of pocket or through insurance. Some families of 11- to 18-year-olds have been doing that, rather than wait for the free vaccine. Physicians say the supply of vaccine for patients who are paying for it themselves or through insurance, produced by Merck, has been adequate. Exeter Pediatric Associates has given 480 doses of privately ordered vaccine since December, Dr. Gladstone said. Even women older than 26 are requesting it. Starting in July, the biggest insurer in the state, Anthem Blue Cross and Blue Shield, will not cover vaccines for HPV and other illnesses for 11- to 18-year-olds because they are eligible for the free pool, which receives money from Anthem, said a spokesman, Chris Dugan. Other insurers are expected to do the same, Mr. Dugan said. Doctors said that could increase the backlog for the free vaccine. Melissa Whitney of Hampstead has put her 13- and 11-year-olds on the waiting list at Exeter. “They said there were many people ahead of me, and, ‘As soon as we get some more vaccine in, we’ll give you a call,’ ” Ms. Whitney said. On Wednesday, Sophia Wheat, 16, received her second injection at Sanders Family Medicine, a few weeks later than the optimal time because of the limited supply, said Dr. Elizabeth Sanders, who is careful to inform patients that Gardasil is not effective against all strains of HPV or other “It sounded really important, so I thought it would be a good idea,” Sophia said as a medical assistant placed a yellow crayon-shaped bandage on her arm. To sort through waiting lists, some doctors give priority to older girls, some to younger ones and some to girls who have already received a dose. Yet, not everyone is rushing for the vaccine. Ms. Currier at Penacook Family Physicians said her practice had called all its 18-year-olds first, especially to recruit “the folks most at risk for HPV, because they are going to be not those most engaged in health care.” About half the 18-year-olds or their parents refused it, “most because they feel it’s too new,” Ms. Currier said. “Some parents of younger girls feel that they’re not sexually active, so they don’t need it,” she added. Maggie Theriault, a nurse from Merrimack, declined Gardasil for her 14-year-old, Samantha, because “I haven’t really investigated it all that much.” “When I did hear about it originally,” Ms. Theriault said, “I wanted her to have it. But I don’t want to be ignorant and I don’t want to rush. “She’s not sexually active yet . We have an agreement that she’s not going to be until, hopefully, she’s at least 18. I’m not saying that we won’t ever get it. It’s just that we’re going to wait a bit.” When Kimberly Barlow arranged for three of her daughters, ages 18, 15, and 13, to receive the inoculation, “my mom was actually against me getting it for them,” Ms. Barlow said. “She was saying it would lead to their promiscuity and stuff,” Ms. Barlow said. “I just thought that it was an option to do something that will likely prevent cervical cancer in my children.” Pauline Doucette put her daughter Olivia, 13, a volleyball player and karate fan, on her pediatrician’s list in October, three months before it was available. Olivia’s grandmother had cervical cancer, which is not hereditary, and Ms. Doucette had a precancerous condition, making Olivia aware of the illness. Ms. Doucette said she discussed the sexual transmission of the virus with Olivia, who has received two doses. “Most everybody in school,” Olivia said, “is getting the shot.” Next Article in Health (1 of 16) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. National Briefing | New England: New Hampshire: Cancer Vaccine To Be Free For Girls Human Papilloma Virus (HPV) Next Article in Health (1 of 16) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Bush in Accord With Democrats on Trade Deals President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds Role of F.B.I. Informer Draws Praise and Questions On Carrier in Gulf, Cheney Issues Warning to Iran Romney Works to Put Skeptics' Doubts to Rest Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » Everything you need to know about heart disease Hip resurfacing: is it right for you? The changing attitudes towards "chemo brain" Treating the awkward years N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/12/health/12cancer.html?ex=1336622400&en=f431640f769472b5&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	In New Hampshire, Soft Sell Eases Vaccine Fears - New York Times Mental Health & Behavior In New Hampshire, Soft Sell Eases Vaccine Fears Cheryl Senter/The New York Times Sophia Wheat, 16, of Hooksett, N.H., being given an HPV vaccination this month at Sanders Family Medicine in Concord, N.H. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 12, 2007 CONCORD, N.H. — A vaccine for a sexually transmitted virus that causes cervical may be creating controversy across the country, but in physicians say so many people want it that they cannot satisfy the demand. Skip to next paragraph Cheryl Senter/The New York Times Gardasil, given in three doses over six months, costs $360. The New Hampshire experience contrasts sharply with that in many other states, where opponents have cited factors like the drug manufacturer’s profit motive and the fear that inoculating young girls will encourage them to be sexually active. New Hampshire has critics of the vaccine, too. But its health officials, wanting to encourage use of the vaccine, called Gardasil, say they have hit on an optimal method: making it voluntary and giving it free to girls ages 11 to 18. In many of the more than 20 states that are considering bills to require girls to be vaccinated, a backlash has developed. In , a lawmakers’ revolt overwhelmingly overturned Gov. ’s effort to mandate recently became the sole state with a law requiring the vaccine for girls entering the sixth grade but allowing parents to refuse shots for their children. In New Hampshire, where people wear their independent streaks with pride, “I suspect that we’re not seeing a significant controversy because there was a never a discussion about whether to make this mandatory,” said Greg Moore, a spokesman for the Health and Human Services Department “This is a different type of vaccine rollout than we have ever seen,” Mr. Moore said. “We usually have to bust our hump every September to convince people to get their Sanders Family Medicine in Concord has a four-month waiting list for the vaccine, which guards against four strains of the . Exeter Pediatric Associates, one of the state’s largest practices, has given out all 380 doses it was supplied by the state since January and has a long waiting list for the next month’s supply, Dr. Wendy Gladstone said. Penacook Family Physicians has devised an elaborate triage system. Ardell Currier, a nurse practitioner, said Penacook first vaccinated 18-year-olds and then younger girls who have been sexually active, take birth control and “have had an or have had health issues, particularly psychiatric conditions” that may make them more likely to have sex. “The ethical dilemma is whom do we give that vaccine to,” Ms. Currier said. New Hampshire is spending $4.9 million on Gardasil this year, said Dr. Jose Montero, the state epidemiologist. That is 28 percent of the state immunization budget, which obtains half its financing from federal money and half from private insurers, Dr. Montero said. The legislature does not have to vote on the program or appropriate money, he added. Money for other immunization programs was not reduced, he said. Since January, the state has distributed more than 14,000 doses and is trying to obtain more doses for physicians with waiting lists. Dr. Montero said he would evaluate whether to ask for more money to buy more vaccine. At least two other states, South Dakota and Washington, are echoing the program here. South Dakota began providing Gardasil free to the same age group in late January with $1.7 million approved by the Legislature and $7.5 million in federal money, Health Secretary Doneen Hollingsworth said. South Dakota is a relatively conservative state that tried last year to ban most abortions only to have the ban repealed in a referendum. Even so, when it came to the HPV vaccine, Ms. Hollingsworth said, “the naysayers, there weren’t a lot of them, and they weren’t terribly loud.” Ms. Hollingsworth said the state had provided almost 20,000 doses. “There’s been a tremendous amount of interest,” she added. “But I haven’t heard anything about anybody running out” of vaccine. In Washington, the Llegislature just approved $10 million for voluntary vaccination for 94,000 girls over the next two years. “We basically want to see as many people get this as possible,” said Tim Church, a spokesman for the Health Department who said Washington would primarily focus on 11- and 12-year-olds on the theory that it is best to be vaccinated before being sexually active. The cost of Gardasil, which is administered in three doses over six months, is normally $360. The federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommend it for ages 9 to 26. In New Hampshire, girls outside the 11-to-18 range of the free pool have to pay out of pocket or through insurance. Some families of 11- to 18-year-olds have been doing that, rather than wait for the free vaccine. Physicians say the supply of vaccine for patients who are paying for it themselves or through insurance, produced by Merck, has been adequate. Exeter Pediatric Associates has given 480 doses of privately ordered vaccine since December, Dr. Gladstone said. Even women older than 26 are requesting it. Starting in July, the biggest insurer in the state, Anthem Blue Cross and Blue Shield, will not cover vaccines for HPV and other illnesses for 11- to 18-year-olds because they are eligible for the free pool, which receives money from Anthem, said a spokesman, Chris Dugan. Other insurers are expected to do the same, Mr. Dugan said. Doctors said that could increase the backlog for the free vaccine. Melissa Whitney of Hampstead has put her 13- and 11-year-olds on the waiting list at Exeter. “They said there were many people ahead of me, and, ‘As soon as we get some more vaccine in, we’ll give you a call,’ ” Ms. Whitney said. On Wednesday, Sophia Wheat, 16, received her second injection at Sanders Family Medicine, a few weeks later than the optimal time because of the limited supply, said Dr. Elizabeth Sanders, who is careful to inform patients that Gardasil is not effective against all strains of HPV or other “It sounded really important, so I thought it would be a good idea,” Sophia said as a medical assistant placed a yellow crayon-shaped bandage on her arm. To sort through waiting lists, some doctors give priority to older girls, some to younger ones and some to girls who have already received a dose. Yet, not everyone is rushing for the vaccine. Ms. Currier at Penacook Family Physicians said her practice had called all its 18-year-olds first, especially to recruit “the folks most at risk for HPV, because they are going to be not those most engaged in health care.” About half the 18-year-olds or their parents refused it, “most because they feel it’s too new,” Ms. Currier said. “Some parents of younger girls feel that they’re not sexually active, so they don’t need it,” she added. Maggie Theriault, a nurse from Merrimack, declined Gardasil for her 14-year-old, Samantha, because “I haven’t really investigated it all that much.” “When I did hear about it originally,” Ms. Theriault said, “I wanted her to have it. But I don’t want to be ignorant and I don’t want to rush. “She’s not sexually active yet . We have an agreement that she’s not going to be until, hopefully, she’s at least 18. I’m not saying that we won’t ever get it. It’s just that we’re going to wait a bit.” When Kimberly Barlow arranged for three of her daughters, ages 18, 15, and 13, to receive the inoculation, “my mom was actually against me getting it for them,” Ms. Barlow said. “She was saying it would lead to their promiscuity and stuff,” Ms. Barlow said. “I just thought that it was an option to do something that will likely prevent cervical cancer in my children.” Pauline Doucette put her daughter Olivia, 13, a volleyball player and karate fan, on her pediatrician’s list in October, three months before it was available. Olivia’s grandmother had cervical cancer, which is not hereditary, and Ms. Doucette had a precancerous condition, making Olivia aware of the illness. Ms. Doucette said she discussed the sexual transmission of the virus with Olivia, who has received two doses. “Most everybody in school,” Olivia said, “is getting the shot.” Next Article in Health (1 of 16) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. National Briefing | New England: New Hampshire: Cancer Vaccine To Be Free For Girls Human Papilloma Virus (HPV) Next Article in Health (1 of 16) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Bush in Accord With Democrats on Trade Deals President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds Role of F.B.I. Informer Draws Praise and Questions On Carrier in Gulf, Cheney Issues Warning to Iran Romney Works to Put Skeptics' Doubts to Rest Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » Everything you need to know about heart disease Hip resurfacing: is it right for you? The changing attitudes towards "chemo brain" Treating the awkward years N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/us/11milk.html	Dairy Council to End Ad Campaign That Linked Drinking Milk With Weight Loss - New York Times Dairy Council to End Ad Campaign That Linked Drinking Milk With Weight Loss Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 A national advertising campaign that associates dairy products with weight loss will be curtailed because research does not support the claim, according to the Federal Trade Commission. The advertisements, conceived by the promotional arm of the dairy industry and overseen by the Agriculture Department, feature slogans like &#8220;Milk your . Lose weight!&#8221; and suggest that three servings of dairy products a day can help people be slim. The effort includes a campaign called &#8220;Body by Milk&#8221; that is aimed at teenagers. It features Alex Rodriguez, the third baseman for the New York Yankees, and Carrie Underwood, an &#8220;American Idol&#8221; winner. The assertion that there is a link between weight loss and dairy consumption has long been contested by the Physicians Committee for Responsible Medicine, an advocacy and research group that promotes a diet free of animal products. The group petitioned the F.T.C. in 2005 to argue that the advertisements were misleading. In a May 3 letter to the group, Lydia Parnes, director of the agency&#8217;s Bureau of Consumer Protection, said Agriculture Department representatives and milk producers and processors had agreed to change the advertisements and related marketing materials &#8220;until further research provides stronger, more conclusive evidence of an association between dairy consumption and weight loss.&#8221; As of Thursday, the National Dairy Council still had a section of its Web site devoted to the weight-loss claim. But the site, along with some of the advertisements, will be changed, said Greg Miller, who is executive vice president of the council and has a doctorate in nutrition. &#8220;Like any other marketing campaign, after time you want to freshen them up and give the consumers what&#8217;s new,&#8221; Mr. Miller said. &#8220;That&#8217;s what&#8217;s happening here.&#8221; Dr. Neal Barnard, president of the group that brought the matter to the F.T.C., said it would continue to press the dairy industry on other claims, which include the assertion that calcium helps prevent bone fractures in older women. &#8220;I think people will start to recognize that the dairy industry, which used to have a mom-and-pop image, is a huge commercial entity that will exaggerate to sell its products,&#8221; Dr. Barnard said. Mr. Miller said most medical professionals agreed that dairy contributed to overall bone health and could help people maintain a healthy weight. &#8220;I think there&#8217;s a minority of people out there that just have very loud voices,&#8221; he said. &#8220;This is a vegan group that doesn&#8217;t want anyone to eat dairy.&#8221; Dairy products were upgraded in the 2005 revision of federal dietary guidelines, which recommended that people consume more low-fat milk and dairy products. An advisory committee that helped set the guidelines cited a report, partly financed by the dairy industry, which found that low-fat dairy products did not necessarily add to weight gain and that dairy products have certain nutrients that can help consumers meet dietary recommendations. The guidelines increased the amount of low-fat or fat-free dairy products to three cups a day, up from two cups. The dairy council is allowed to continue to use wording from those guidelines that says adults and children should not avoid milk and milk products because of concerns that they may lead to weight gain, the letter from the F.T.C. said. Marion Nestle, a professor of nutrition at , said the agreement to modify the advertisements was groundbreaking. In her book, &#8220;What to Eat,&#8221; she argued that lobbying by the $50 billion dairy industry could sometimes cloud policy on nutrition. Though Ms. Nestle said she ate dairy products regularly and did not dispute their nutritional value, she said people could have a healthy diet without them. &#8220;Those ads were ridiculously misleading,&#8221; she said. More Articles in National &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. THE NATION; Thinning the Milk Does Not Mean Thinning the Child Bodegas Are Asked by Health Officials to Help Push a Better Diet in Poorer Neighborhoods ADVERTISING; Chug Milk, Shed Pounds? Not So Fast PERSONAL HEALTH; Of Mice, Men and 'Magic' Diet Supplements More Articles in National &#x00bb; The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/us/11milk.html	Dairy Council to End Ad Campaign That Linked Drinking Milk With Weight Loss - New York Times Dairy Council to End Ad Campaign That Linked Drinking Milk With Weight Loss Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 A national advertising campaign that associates dairy products with weight loss will be curtailed because research does not support the claim, according to the Federal Trade Commission. The advertisements, conceived by the promotional arm of the dairy industry and overseen by the Agriculture Department, feature slogans like &#8220;Milk your . Lose weight!&#8221; and suggest that three servings of dairy products a day can help people be slim. The effort includes a campaign called &#8220;Body by Milk&#8221; that is aimed at teenagers. It features Alex Rodriguez, the third baseman for the New York Yankees, and Carrie Underwood, an &#8220;American Idol&#8221; winner. The assertion that there is a link between weight loss and dairy consumption has long been contested by the Physicians Committee for Responsible Medicine, an advocacy and research group that promotes a diet free of animal products. The group petitioned the F.T.C. in 2005 to argue that the advertisements were misleading. In a May 3 letter to the group, Lydia Parnes, director of the agency&#8217;s Bureau of Consumer Protection, said Agriculture Department representatives and milk producers and processors had agreed to change the advertisements and related marketing materials &#8220;until further research provides stronger, more conclusive evidence of an association between dairy consumption and weight loss.&#8221; As of Thursday, the National Dairy Council still had a section of its Web site devoted to the weight-loss claim. But the site, along with some of the advertisements, will be changed, said Greg Miller, who is executive vice president of the council and has a doctorate in nutrition. &#8220;Like any other marketing campaign, after time you want to freshen them up and give the consumers what&#8217;s new,&#8221; Mr. Miller said. &#8220;That&#8217;s what&#8217;s happening here.&#8221; Dr. Neal Barnard, president of the group that brought the matter to the F.T.C., said it would continue to press the dairy industry on other claims, which include the assertion that calcium helps prevent bone fractures in older women. &#8220;I think people will start to recognize that the dairy industry, which used to have a mom-and-pop image, is a huge commercial entity that will exaggerate to sell its products,&#8221; Dr. Barnard said. Mr. Miller said most medical professionals agreed that dairy contributed to overall bone health and could help people maintain a healthy weight. &#8220;I think there&#8217;s a minority of people out there that just have very loud voices,&#8221; he said. &#8220;This is a vegan group that doesn&#8217;t want anyone to eat dairy.&#8221; Dairy products were upgraded in the 2005 revision of federal dietary guidelines, which recommended that people consume more low-fat milk and dairy products. An advisory committee that helped set the guidelines cited a report, partly financed by the dairy industry, which found that low-fat dairy products did not necessarily add to weight gain and that dairy products have certain nutrients that can help consumers meet dietary recommendations. The guidelines increased the amount of low-fat or fat-free dairy products to three cups a day, up from two cups. The dairy council is allowed to continue to use wording from those guidelines that says adults and children should not avoid milk and milk products because of concerns that they may lead to weight gain, the letter from the F.T.C. said. Marion Nestle, a professor of nutrition at , said the agreement to modify the advertisements was groundbreaking. In her book, &#8220;What to Eat,&#8221; she argued that lobbying by the $50 billion dairy industry could sometimes cloud policy on nutrition. Though Ms. Nestle said she ate dairy products regularly and did not dispute their nutritional value, she said people could have a healthy diet without them. &#8220;Those ads were ridiculously misleading,&#8221; she said. More Articles in National &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. THE NATION; Thinning the Milk Does Not Mean Thinning the Child Bodegas Are Asked by Health Officials to Help Push a Better Diet in Poorer Neighborhoods ADVERTISING; Chug Milk, Shed Pounds? Not So Fast PERSONAL HEALTH; Of Mice, Men and 'Magic' Diet Supplements More Articles in National &#x00bb; The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/health/11anemia.html?ex=1336536000&en=64815775ee883add&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	F.D.A. Panel Seeks Limits on Cancer Patient Drugs - New York Times Mental Health & Behavior F.D.A. Panel Seeks Limits on Cancer Patient Drugs Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 SILVER SPRING, Md., May 10 &#151; Bowing to safety concerns, government medical advisers urged on Thursday that additional restrictions be put on the use of drugs that treat The recommendations by an advisory committee to the Food and Drug Administration followed a flurry of studies suggesting that the drugs, meant to help patients cope with , might actually be making their cancer worse or hastening their deaths. The drugs &#151; Aranesp from Amgen and Procrit from Johnson &#38; Johnson &#151; are used by about a half-million American cancer patients a year and have billions of dollars in annual sales. Some members of the committee expressed shock that even though Procrit was first approved 14 years ago, it was still not clear if the drugs were safe at the doses typically used. &#8220;Yes, we have a burning question,&#8221; one panel member, Dr. Silvana Martino, an oncologist in Santa Monica, Calif., said at the meeting here. &#8220;Do these things kill people?&#8221; Most of the studies showing a risk involved use of the drugs at doses higher than doctors typically give them. That left the committee with the question of what to do about use of the drugs at the usual doses until more data become available. The F.D.A. has already clamped down on the drugs. In March it put strict new warnings on the labels, saying the products should be used at the smallest dosage that lets anemic patients avoid blood transfusions. But the panel&#8217;s votes Thursday portend even further restrictions. The committee voted 12 to 5, for instance, that the drugs should be barred from use by patients with certain types of cancer until more is known about their safety. While the committee did not specify which types, several members mentioned , non-small cell lung cancer and head and neck cancer. The committee voted 15 to 2 that there should be more restrictions in general if the drugs remain on the market, and 17 to 0 that more studies were needed. And it voted 16 to 1 that anemia therapy should be stopped when chemotherapy is finished. But in one victory for the drug makers, the committee voted 11 to 6 against lowering the ceiling on how much the anemia should be corrected. The labels now say that a patient&#8217;s hemoglobin, the oxygen-carrying component of red blood cells, should not be raised to more than 12 grams per deciliter of blood. The F.D.A. usually follows the recommendations of such panels. Dr. Richard Pazdur, director of the agency&#8217;s cancer drug division, said Thursday he could not say yet when or how the agency would act. The two drugs, along with another Amgen drug, Epogen, are also used to treat anemia caused by kidney disease, but yesterday&#8217;s meeting concerned only cancer treatment. Another hearing dealing with kidney disease will be held early in the fall. The panel&#8217;s recommendations were a particular blow to Amgen, which last year took in nearly half its $14.3 billion in revenue from the anemia drugs. Johnson &#38; Johnson is far larger and more diversified than Amgen, and so is less dependent on Procrit sales. &#8220;I think it&#8217;s worse than what investors expected,&#8221; Michael Aberman, an analyst who follows Amgen for Credit Suisse, said after the meeting. Amgen&#8217;s stock fell $5.77, or more than 9 percent, to close at $57.33. Trish Hawkins, an Amgen spokeswoman, said in a statement, &#8220;We will be working with the F.D.A. as they consider the committee&#8217;s recommendations.&#8221; The drugs, known generically as darbepoetin and epoetin, were approved to reduce the need for blood transfusions in patients with anemia from chemotherapy. Many doctors and patients believe the drugs fight fatigue and improve patients&#8217; daily lives, although the F.D.A. said it did not find studies with persuasive evidence of such benefits. A panel member from , Dr. Otis Brawley, said some doctors overprescribed the drugs because they made money from doing so. Doctors can sometimes receive more from insurers than they pay for the drugs, especially if they receive rebates from the manufacturers. Dr. Brawley said the drug companies had not done proper studies, and at one point asked them, &#8220;What data do you have to assure me that this is not Miracle-Gro for cancer?&#8221; The staff of the F.D.A. was also critical of the companies, saying they had not provided data they had promised when a similar advisory panel meeting was held in 2004. The companies and their advocates argued that ample data showed the drugs were safe when used properly, except for a long-known risk of increased blood clots. They also argued that the drugs had significant benefits. Forcing cancer patients to go back to transfusions, they said, would expose the patients to risks and inconvenience and further strain the nation&#8217;s already taxed blood supply. That sentiment was also voiced by some committee members. &#8220;I think the idea of going back to the dark ages in regards to supportive care is a step backward,&#8221; said Dr. S. Gail Eckhardt of the , the panel&#8217;s chairman. Advisory panel meetings often feature eloquent pleas from patients that a drug be approved or kept on the market. But there was not a big outpouring of support for the anemia drugs. In fact, some patients expressed dismay at how the drugs were used. &#8220;How is it possible that what was meant to help me might actually have made things worse?&#8221; said Lilla Romeo, who has had breast cancer since 1995. Next Article in Health (3 of 16) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. MARKET PLACE; Amgen Seeks To Reverse Its Bad News ImClone's Drug Fails in Pancreatic Cancer Study F.D.A. Approves Glaxo Cancer Drug Studies Show Anemia Drugs May Harm Cancer Patients Food and Drug Administration Next Article in Health (3 of 16) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Bush in Accord With Democrats on Trade Deals President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds Role of F.B.I. Informer Draws Praise and Questions On Carrier in Gulf, Cheney Issues Warning to Iran Romney Works to Put Skeptics' Doubts to Rest Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » Everything you need to know about heart disease Hip resurfacing: is it right for you? The changing attitudes towards "chemo brain" Treating the awkward years N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/health/11anemia.html?ex=1336536000&en=64815775ee883add&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	F.D.A. Panel Seeks Limits on Cancer Patient Drugs - New York Times Mental Health & Behavior F.D.A. Panel Seeks Limits on Cancer Patient Drugs Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 SILVER SPRING, Md., May 10 &#151; Bowing to safety concerns, government medical advisers urged on Thursday that additional restrictions be put on the use of drugs that treat The recommendations by an advisory committee to the Food and Drug Administration followed a flurry of studies suggesting that the drugs, meant to help patients cope with , might actually be making their cancer worse or hastening their deaths. The drugs &#151; Aranesp from Amgen and Procrit from Johnson &#38; Johnson &#151; are used by about a half-million American cancer patients a year and have billions of dollars in annual sales. Some members of the committee expressed shock that even though Procrit was first approved 14 years ago, it was still not clear if the drugs were safe at the doses typically used. &#8220;Yes, we have a burning question,&#8221; one panel member, Dr. Silvana Martino, an oncologist in Santa Monica, Calif., said at the meeting here. &#8220;Do these things kill people?&#8221; Most of the studies showing a risk involved use of the drugs at doses higher than doctors typically give them. That left the committee with the question of what to do about use of the drugs at the usual doses until more data become available. The F.D.A. has already clamped down on the drugs. In March it put strict new warnings on the labels, saying the products should be used at the smallest dosage that lets anemic patients avoid blood transfusions. But the panel&#8217;s votes Thursday portend even further restrictions. The committee voted 12 to 5, for instance, that the drugs should be barred from use by patients with certain types of cancer until more is known about their safety. While the committee did not specify which types, several members mentioned , non-small cell lung cancer and head and neck cancer. The committee voted 15 to 2 that there should be more restrictions in general if the drugs remain on the market, and 17 to 0 that more studies were needed. And it voted 16 to 1 that anemia therapy should be stopped when chemotherapy is finished. But in one victory for the drug makers, the committee voted 11 to 6 against lowering the ceiling on how much the anemia should be corrected. The labels now say that a patient&#8217;s hemoglobin, the oxygen-carrying component of red blood cells, should not be raised to more than 12 grams per deciliter of blood. The F.D.A. usually follows the recommendations of such panels. Dr. Richard Pazdur, director of the agency&#8217;s cancer drug division, said Thursday he could not say yet when or how the agency would act. The two drugs, along with another Amgen drug, Epogen, are also used to treat anemia caused by kidney disease, but yesterday&#8217;s meeting concerned only cancer treatment. Another hearing dealing with kidney disease will be held early in the fall. The panel&#8217;s recommendations were a particular blow to Amgen, which last year took in nearly half its $14.3 billion in revenue from the anemia drugs. Johnson &#38; Johnson is far larger and more diversified than Amgen, and so is less dependent on Procrit sales. &#8220;I think it&#8217;s worse than what investors expected,&#8221; Michael Aberman, an analyst who follows Amgen for Credit Suisse, said after the meeting. Amgen&#8217;s stock fell $5.77, or more than 9 percent, to close at $57.33. Trish Hawkins, an Amgen spokeswoman, said in a statement, &#8220;We will be working with the F.D.A. as they consider the committee&#8217;s recommendations.&#8221; The drugs, known generically as darbepoetin and epoetin, were approved to reduce the need for blood transfusions in patients with anemia from chemotherapy. Many doctors and patients believe the drugs fight fatigue and improve patients&#8217; daily lives, although the F.D.A. said it did not find studies with persuasive evidence of such benefits. A panel member from , Dr. Otis Brawley, said some doctors overprescribed the drugs because they made money from doing so. Doctors can sometimes receive more from insurers than they pay for the drugs, especially if they receive rebates from the manufacturers. Dr. Brawley said the drug companies had not done proper studies, and at one point asked them, &#8220;What data do you have to assure me that this is not Miracle-Gro for cancer?&#8221; The staff of the F.D.A. was also critical of the companies, saying they had not provided data they had promised when a similar advisory panel meeting was held in 2004. The companies and their advocates argued that ample data showed the drugs were safe when used properly, except for a long-known risk of increased blood clots. They also argued that the drugs had significant benefits. Forcing cancer patients to go back to transfusions, they said, would expose the patients to risks and inconvenience and further strain the nation&#8217;s already taxed blood supply. That sentiment was also voiced by some committee members. &#8220;I think the idea of going back to the dark ages in regards to supportive care is a step backward,&#8221; said Dr. S. Gail Eckhardt of the , the panel&#8217;s chairman. Advisory panel meetings often feature eloquent pleas from patients that a drug be approved or kept on the market. But there was not a big outpouring of support for the anemia drugs. In fact, some patients expressed dismay at how the drugs were used. &#8220;How is it possible that what was meant to help me might actually have made things worse?&#8221; said Lilla Romeo, who has had breast cancer since 1995. Next Article in Health (3 of 16) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. MARKET PLACE; Amgen Seeks To Reverse Its Bad News ImClone's Drug Fails in Pancreatic Cancer Study F.D.A. Approves Glaxo Cancer Drug Studies Show Anemia Drugs May Harm Cancer Patients Food and Drug Administration Next Article in Health (3 of 16) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Bush in Accord With Democrats on Trade Deals President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds Role of F.B.I. Informer Draws Praise and Questions On Carrier in Gulf, Cheney Issues Warning to Iran Romney Works to Put Skeptics' Doubts to Rest Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » Everything you need to know about heart disease Hip resurfacing: is it right for you? The changing attitudes towards "chemo brain" Treating the awkward years N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/pages/health/index.html?partner=rssnyt	Health News - New York Times Mental Health & Behavior In New Hampshire, Soft Sell Eases Vaccine Fears Cheryl Senter/The New York Times Sophia Wheat, 16, of Hooksett, N.H., being given an HPV vaccination this month at Sanders Family Medicine in Concord, N.H. The demand for a free vaccine against cervical cancer has been so high that physicians can’t satisfy all the requests. Doctor Grafted Skin to Aid Drug Dealers, U.S. Authorities Say By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS A Mexican doctor removed drug traffickers’ fingerprints, substituting skin from their feet, to help the traffickers avoid arrest, authorities said. Electric Pulses, Instead of Shocks, Can Help Heart Patients Many heart patients who believe that their lives have been saved by shocks from implanted defibrillators could have survived without the jolt, new research shows. Passage of Drug Safety Bill Was Common Goal for Two Very Different Senators By ROBERT PEAR and GARDINER HARRIS Senators Edward M. Kennedy and Michael B. Enzi worked together in an unusual display of bipartisanship to make the bill passable. F.D.A. Panel Seeks Limits on Cancer Patient Drugs Bowing to safety concerns, government medical advisers urged on Thursday that additional restrictions be put on the use of drugs that treat anemia in cancer patients. Dairy Council to End Ad Campaign That Linked Drinking Milk With Weight Loss A national advertising campaign that associates dairy products with weight loss will be curtailed because research does not support the claim. Contaminated Water in Queens Is a Repeat Performance The area where city officials found an industrial chemical in the drinking water last week has had problems with contamination by the same chemical for several years. Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry’s Role By GARDINER HARRIS, BENEDICT CAREY and JANET ROBERTS The intersection of money and medicine has become one of the most contentious issues in psychiatry. Senate Approves Tighter Policing of Drug Makers The bill would give the F.D.A. new power to police drug safety, order changes in labels and regulate ads. Legislators Ask to Revise Plan for Hospitals Leaders of the State Legislature said that they wanted Gov. Eliot Spitzer to reconsider a plan approved last year to close, merge or shrink dozens of hospitals across the state. Doctors Reap Millions for Anemia Drugs The DNA Age: Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Massachusetts Proposes Stem Cell Research Grants Chinese Company Linked to Deaths Wasn’t Licensed Clinton Foundation Announces a Bargain on Generic AIDS Drugs Advertising: Telling Dieters a Pill Works Only if They Work, Too Jury Is Still Out on Gluten, the Latest Dietary Villain Study Links Rescuers’ Lung Ailment to Trade Center Collapse Personal Health: Deciphering the Results of a Prostate Test Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Cases: The Struggle to Move Beyond ‘Why Me?’ Really? : The Claim: Aspirin Can Reduce the Risk of Alzheimer’s Disease Essay: A Moment of Revelation, Preserved in a Test Stick Study Suggests Meditation Can Help Train Attention China Tells Little About Illness That Kills Pigs, Officials Say Vital Signs: Adolescence: No Link to Promiscuity Found in Youths Using Condoms Vital Signs: Patterns: Early Menarche Linked to Heavier Children Vital Signs: Child Care: Regular Television Time Starts for Many at 3 Months Vital Signs: At Risk: Study Shows Flu Season Increases Heart Ailments Report on Child Deaths Finds Some Hope in Poorest Nations Johnson & Johnson Won’t Seek Approval for a Heart Stent Energy Drink Is Withdrawn Over Concerns About Name : Going Against the Flow A birth control pill designed to eliminate the monthly period may hit the market soon. : Choosing Hip Resurfacing Keith McDonald underwent hip resurfacing surgery, a newer alternative to total hip replacement. : A Persistent Problem Keith Orr's story illustrates the reasons that heart disease still kills more Americans than any other disease. The Yoga Therapist Will See You Now A Healthy Mix of Rest and Motion Methods Used by Insurers Are Questioned Small Businesses’ Premiums Soar After Illness MENTAL HEALTH & BEHAVIOR» Stress on Troops Adds to U.S. Hurdles in Iraq Depression Raises Risk of Diabetes, Study Finds Some parents of children with Down syndrome want prospective parents to know the positive side of raising a child with the genetic condition. The Yoga Therapist Will See You Now Are one-on-one yoga classes effective physical therapy? Blogging for Truth and Beauty Dr. Robert Oliver Jr., a plastic surgeon in Birmingham, Ala., started his blog plasticsurgery101.blogspot, and has used it to question everything from so-called fat-melting injections to implants. Jane Brody, "Personal Health" columnist, discusses the latest health news. Sports of The Times Stealth Killer Puts Doctor on Mission With N.F.L. For the past four years, Dr. Arthur Roberts, a record-setting pass-slinger at Columbia, has been studying football’s struggle against cardiovascular disease. A user's guide to diagnostic tests. What you need to know about procedures and diagnoses for six major diseases. Go to Special Section » News from AP &#x00bb; Minnesota Lawmakers Pass Smoking Ban New Plan Would Mandate HIV Tests in N.J. N.J. Plan Would Mandate HIV Tests Groups Work With Researchers, Drug Cos. DIET: Thin People May Be Fat Inside FDA Panel Wants More Anemia Drug Studies Browse All Health Topics Select a Health Topic Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS) Dietary Supplements and Herbal Remedies Food Contamination and Poisoning Human Papilloma Virus (HPV) Mental Health and Disorders Post Traumatic Stress Disorder SARS (Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome) Seasonal Affective Disorder (SAD) Sexually Transmitted Diseases (STDs) Sudden Infant Death Syndrome Suicides and Suicide Attempts Health & Fitness Tools What's your score? » Calorie Calculator for Goal Weight What's your limit? » MOST POPULAR - HEALTH Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside In New Hampshire, Soft Sell Eases Vaccine Fears Electric Pulses, Instead of Shocks, Can Help Heart Patients F.D.A. Panel Seeks Limits on Cancer Patient Drugs Jury Is Still Out on Gluten, the Latest Dietary Villain Study Suggests Meditation Can Help Train Attention Cases: The Struggle to Move Beyond &#8216;Why Me?&#8217; Personal Health: Deciphering the Results of a Prostate Test Chemotherapy Fog Is No Longer Ignored as Illusion Go to Complete List » Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Psychiatrists, Troubled Children and Drug Industry's Role The Struggle to Move Beyond â€˜Why Me?' Adolescence: No Link to Promiscuity Found in Youths Using Condoms Child Care: Regular Television Time Starts for Many at 3 Months Go to Complete List » Everything you need to know about heart disease Hip resurfacing: is it right for you? The changing attitudes towards "chemo brain" Treating the awkward years Looking to buy a new car? Buy, sell or rent a home. Photos, fine art, books and more. Tell us your nursing story. Inspiration & lessons. Which gadget is getting all the buzz? Be Prepared. For Your Major Purchase. The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/pages/health/index.html?partner=rssnyt	Health News - New York Times Mental Health & Behavior In New Hampshire, Soft Sell Eases Vaccine Fears Cheryl Senter/The New York Times Sophia Wheat, 16, of Hooksett, N.H., being given an HPV vaccination this month at Sanders Family Medicine in Concord, N.H. The demand for a free vaccine against cervical cancer has been so high that physicians can’t satisfy all the requests. Doctor Grafted Skin to Aid Drug Dealers, U.S. Authorities Say By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS A Mexican doctor removed drug traffickers’ fingerprints, substituting skin from their feet, to help the traffickers avoid arrest, authorities said. Electric Pulses, Instead of Shocks, Can Help Heart Patients Many heart patients who believe that their lives have been saved by shocks from implanted defibrillators could have survived without the jolt, new research shows. Passage of Drug Safety Bill Was Common Goal for Two Very Different Senators By ROBERT PEAR and GARDINER HARRIS Senators Edward M. Kennedy and Michael B. Enzi worked together in an unusual display of bipartisanship to make the bill passable. F.D.A. Panel Seeks Limits on Cancer Patient Drugs Bowing to safety concerns, government medical advisers urged on Thursday that additional restrictions be put on the use of drugs that treat anemia in cancer patients. Dairy Council to End Ad Campaign That Linked Drinking Milk With Weight Loss A national advertising campaign that associates dairy products with weight loss will be curtailed because research does not support the claim. Contaminated Water in Queens Is a Repeat Performance The area where city officials found an industrial chemical in the drinking water last week has had problems with contamination by the same chemical for several years. Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry’s Role By GARDINER HARRIS, BENEDICT CAREY and JANET ROBERTS The intersection of money and medicine has become one of the most contentious issues in psychiatry. Senate Approves Tighter Policing of Drug Makers The bill would give the F.D.A. new power to police drug safety, order changes in labels and regulate ads. Legislators Ask to Revise Plan for Hospitals Leaders of the State Legislature said that they wanted Gov. Eliot Spitzer to reconsider a plan approved last year to close, merge or shrink dozens of hospitals across the state. Doctors Reap Millions for Anemia Drugs The DNA Age: Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Massachusetts Proposes Stem Cell Research Grants Chinese Company Linked to Deaths Wasn’t Licensed Clinton Foundation Announces a Bargain on Generic AIDS Drugs Advertising: Telling Dieters a Pill Works Only if They Work, Too Jury Is Still Out on Gluten, the Latest Dietary Villain Study Links Rescuers’ Lung Ailment to Trade Center Collapse Personal Health: Deciphering the Results of a Prostate Test Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Cases: The Struggle to Move Beyond ‘Why Me?’ Really? : The Claim: Aspirin Can Reduce the Risk of Alzheimer’s Disease Essay: A Moment of Revelation, Preserved in a Test Stick Study Suggests Meditation Can Help Train Attention China Tells Little About Illness That Kills Pigs, Officials Say Vital Signs: Adolescence: No Link to Promiscuity Found in Youths Using Condoms Vital Signs: Patterns: Early Menarche Linked to Heavier Children Vital Signs: Child Care: Regular Television Time Starts for Many at 3 Months Vital Signs: At Risk: Study Shows Flu Season Increases Heart Ailments Report on Child Deaths Finds Some Hope in Poorest Nations Johnson & Johnson Won’t Seek Approval for a Heart Stent Energy Drink Is Withdrawn Over Concerns About Name : Going Against the Flow A birth control pill designed to eliminate the monthly period may hit the market soon. : Choosing Hip Resurfacing Keith McDonald underwent hip resurfacing surgery, a newer alternative to total hip replacement. : A Persistent Problem Keith Orr's story illustrates the reasons that heart disease still kills more Americans than any other disease. The Yoga Therapist Will See You Now A Healthy Mix of Rest and Motion Methods Used by Insurers Are Questioned Small Businesses’ Premiums Soar After Illness MENTAL HEALTH & BEHAVIOR» Stress on Troops Adds to U.S. Hurdles in Iraq Depression Raises Risk of Diabetes, Study Finds Some parents of children with Down syndrome want prospective parents to know the positive side of raising a child with the genetic condition. The Yoga Therapist Will See You Now Are one-on-one yoga classes effective physical therapy? Blogging for Truth and Beauty Dr. Robert Oliver Jr., a plastic surgeon in Birmingham, Ala., started his blog plasticsurgery101.blogspot, and has used it to question everything from so-called fat-melting injections to implants. Jane Brody, "Personal Health" columnist, discusses the latest health news. Sports of The Times Stealth Killer Puts Doctor on Mission With N.F.L. For the past four years, Dr. Arthur Roberts, a record-setting pass-slinger at Columbia, has been studying football’s struggle against cardiovascular disease. A user's guide to diagnostic tests. What you need to know about procedures and diagnoses for six major diseases. Go to Special Section » News from AP &#x00bb; Minnesota Lawmakers Pass Smoking Ban New Plan Would Mandate HIV Tests in N.J. N.J. Plan Would Mandate HIV Tests Groups Work With Researchers, Drug Cos. DIET: Thin People May Be Fat Inside FDA Panel Wants More Anemia Drug Studies Browse All Health Topics Select a Health Topic Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS) Dietary Supplements and Herbal Remedies Food Contamination and Poisoning Human Papilloma Virus (HPV) Mental Health and Disorders Post Traumatic Stress Disorder SARS (Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome) Seasonal Affective Disorder (SAD) Sexually Transmitted Diseases (STDs) Sudden Infant Death Syndrome Suicides and Suicide Attempts Health & Fitness Tools What's your score? » Calorie Calculator for Goal Weight What's your limit? » MOST POPULAR - HEALTH Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside In New Hampshire, Soft Sell Eases Vaccine Fears Electric Pulses, Instead of Shocks, Can Help Heart Patients F.D.A. Panel Seeks Limits on Cancer Patient Drugs Jury Is Still Out on Gluten, the Latest Dietary Villain Study Suggests Meditation Can Help Train Attention Cases: The Struggle to Move Beyond &#8216;Why Me?&#8217; Personal Health: Deciphering the Results of a Prostate Test Chemotherapy Fog Is No Longer Ignored as Illusion Go to Complete List » Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Psychiatrists, Troubled Children and Drug Industry's Role The Struggle to Move Beyond â€˜Why Me?' Adolescence: No Link to Promiscuity Found in Youths Using Condoms Child Care: Regular Television Time Starts for Many at 3 Months Go to Complete List » Everything you need to know about heart disease Hip resurfacing: is it right for you? The changing attitudes towards "chemo brain" Treating the awkward years Looking to buy a new car? Buy, sell or rent a home. Photos, fine art, books and more. Tell us your nursing story. Inspiration & lessons. Which gadget is getting all the buzz? Be Prepared. For Your Major Purchase. The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/health/11anemia.html	F.D.A. Panel Seeks Limits on Cancer Patient Drugs - New York Times Mental Health & Behavior F.D.A. Panel Seeks Limits on Cancer Patient Drugs Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 SILVER SPRING, Md., May 10 &#151; Bowing to safety concerns, government medical advisers urged on Thursday that additional restrictions be put on the use of drugs that treat The recommendations by an advisory committee to the Food and Drug Administration followed a flurry of studies suggesting that the drugs, meant to help patients cope with , might actually be making their cancer worse or hastening their deaths. The drugs &#151; Aranesp from Amgen and Procrit from Johnson &#38; Johnson &#151; are used by about a half-million American cancer patients a year and have billions of dollars in annual sales. Some members of the committee expressed shock that even though Procrit was first approved 14 years ago, it was still not clear if the drugs were safe at the doses typically used. &#8220;Yes, we have a burning question,&#8221; one panel member, Dr. Silvana Martino, an oncologist in Santa Monica, Calif., said at the meeting here. &#8220;Do these things kill people?&#8221; Most of the studies showing a risk involved use of the drugs at doses higher than doctors typically give them. That left the committee with the question of what to do about use of the drugs at the usual doses until more data become available. The F.D.A. has already clamped down on the drugs. In March it put strict new warnings on the labels, saying the products should be used at the smallest dosage that lets anemic patients avoid blood transfusions. But the panel&#8217;s votes Thursday portend even further restrictions. The committee voted 12 to 5, for instance, that the drugs should be barred from use by patients with certain types of cancer until more is known about their safety. While the committee did not specify which types, several members mentioned , non-small cell lung cancer and head and neck cancer. The committee voted 15 to 2 that there should be more restrictions in general if the drugs remain on the market, and 17 to 0 that more studies were needed. And it voted 16 to 1 that anemia therapy should be stopped when chemotherapy is finished. But in one victory for the drug makers, the committee voted 11 to 6 against lowering the ceiling on how much the anemia should be corrected. The labels now say that a patient&#8217;s hemoglobin, the oxygen-carrying component of red blood cells, should not be raised to more than 12 grams per deciliter of blood. The F.D.A. usually follows the recommendations of such panels. Dr. Richard Pazdur, director of the agency&#8217;s cancer drug division, said Thursday he could not say yet when or how the agency would act. The two drugs, along with another Amgen drug, Epogen, are also used to treat anemia caused by kidney disease, but yesterday&#8217;s meeting concerned only cancer treatment. Another hearing dealing with kidney disease will be held early in the fall. The panel&#8217;s recommendations were a particular blow to Amgen, which last year took in nearly half its $14.3 billion in revenue from the anemia drugs. Johnson &#38; Johnson is far larger and more diversified than Amgen, and so is less dependent on Procrit sales. &#8220;I think it&#8217;s worse than what investors expected,&#8221; Michael Aberman, an analyst who follows Amgen for Credit Suisse, said after the meeting. Amgen&#8217;s stock fell $5.77, or more than 9 percent, to close at $57.33. Trish Hawkins, an Amgen spokeswoman, said in a statement, &#8220;We will be working with the F.D.A. as they consider the committee&#8217;s recommendations.&#8221; The drugs, known generically as darbepoetin and epoetin, were approved to reduce the need for blood transfusions in patients with anemia from chemotherapy. Many doctors and patients believe the drugs fight fatigue and improve patients&#8217; daily lives, although the F.D.A. said it did not find studies with persuasive evidence of such benefits. A panel member from , Dr. Otis Brawley, said some doctors overprescribed the drugs because they made money from doing so. Doctors can sometimes receive more from insurers than they pay for the drugs, especially if they receive rebates from the manufacturers. Dr. Brawley said the drug companies had not done proper studies, and at one point asked them, &#8220;What data do you have to assure me that this is not Miracle-Gro for cancer?&#8221; The staff of the F.D.A. was also critical of the companies, saying they had not provided data they had promised when a similar advisory panel meeting was held in 2004. The companies and their advocates argued that ample data showed the drugs were safe when used properly, except for a long-known risk of increased blood clots. They also argued that the drugs had significant benefits. Forcing cancer patients to go back to transfusions, they said, would expose the patients to risks and inconvenience and further strain the nation&#8217;s already taxed blood supply. That sentiment was also voiced by some committee members. &#8220;I think the idea of going back to the dark ages in regards to supportive care is a step backward,&#8221; said Dr. S. Gail Eckhardt of the , the panel&#8217;s chairman. Advisory panel meetings often feature eloquent pleas from patients that a drug be approved or kept on the market. But there was not a big outpouring of support for the anemia drugs. In fact, some patients expressed dismay at how the drugs were used. &#8220;How is it possible that what was meant to help me might actually have made things worse?&#8221; said Lilla Romeo, who has had breast cancer since 1995. Next Article in Health (3 of 16) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. MARKET PLACE; Amgen Seeks To Reverse Its Bad News ImClone's Drug Fails in Pancreatic Cancer Study F.D.A. Approves Glaxo Cancer Drug Studies Show Anemia Drugs May Harm Cancer Patients Food and Drug Administration Next Article in Health (3 of 16) &#x00bb; Everything you need to know about heart disease Hip resurfacing: is it right for you? The changing attitudes towards "chemo brain" Treating the awkward years N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/health/11anemia.html	F.D.A. Panel Seeks Limits on Cancer Patient Drugs - New York Times Mental Health & Behavior F.D.A. Panel Seeks Limits on Cancer Patient Drugs Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 SILVER SPRING, Md., May 10 &#151; Bowing to safety concerns, government medical advisers urged on Thursday that additional restrictions be put on the use of drugs that treat The recommendations by an advisory committee to the Food and Drug Administration followed a flurry of studies suggesting that the drugs, meant to help patients cope with , might actually be making their cancer worse or hastening their deaths. The drugs &#151; Aranesp from Amgen and Procrit from Johnson &#38; Johnson &#151; are used by about a half-million American cancer patients a year and have billions of dollars in annual sales. Some members of the committee expressed shock that even though Procrit was first approved 14 years ago, it was still not clear if the drugs were safe at the doses typically used. &#8220;Yes, we have a burning question,&#8221; one panel member, Dr. Silvana Martino, an oncologist in Santa Monica, Calif., said at the meeting here. &#8220;Do these things kill people?&#8221; Most of the studies showing a risk involved use of the drugs at doses higher than doctors typically give them. That left the committee with the question of what to do about use of the drugs at the usual doses until more data become available. The F.D.A. has already clamped down on the drugs. In March it put strict new warnings on the labels, saying the products should be used at the smallest dosage that lets anemic patients avoid blood transfusions. But the panel&#8217;s votes Thursday portend even further restrictions. The committee voted 12 to 5, for instance, that the drugs should be barred from use by patients with certain types of cancer until more is known about their safety. While the committee did not specify which types, several members mentioned , non-small cell lung cancer and head and neck cancer. The committee voted 15 to 2 that there should be more restrictions in general if the drugs remain on the market, and 17 to 0 that more studies were needed. And it voted 16 to 1 that anemia therapy should be stopped when chemotherapy is finished. But in one victory for the drug makers, the committee voted 11 to 6 against lowering the ceiling on how much the anemia should be corrected. The labels now say that a patient&#8217;s hemoglobin, the oxygen-carrying component of red blood cells, should not be raised to more than 12 grams per deciliter of blood. The F.D.A. usually follows the recommendations of such panels. Dr. Richard Pazdur, director of the agency&#8217;s cancer drug division, said Thursday he could not say yet when or how the agency would act. The two drugs, along with another Amgen drug, Epogen, are also used to treat anemia caused by kidney disease, but yesterday&#8217;s meeting concerned only cancer treatment. Another hearing dealing with kidney disease will be held early in the fall. The panel&#8217;s recommendations were a particular blow to Amgen, which last year took in nearly half its $14.3 billion in revenue from the anemia drugs. Johnson &#38; Johnson is far larger and more diversified than Amgen, and so is less dependent on Procrit sales. &#8220;I think it&#8217;s worse than what investors expected,&#8221; Michael Aberman, an analyst who follows Amgen for Credit Suisse, said after the meeting. Amgen&#8217;s stock fell $5.77, or more than 9 percent, to close at $57.33. Trish Hawkins, an Amgen spokeswoman, said in a statement, &#8220;We will be working with the F.D.A. as they consider the committee&#8217;s recommendations.&#8221; The drugs, known generically as darbepoetin and epoetin, were approved to reduce the need for blood transfusions in patients with anemia from chemotherapy. Many doctors and patients believe the drugs fight fatigue and improve patients&#8217; daily lives, although the F.D.A. said it did not find studies with persuasive evidence of such benefits. A panel member from , Dr. Otis Brawley, said some doctors overprescribed the drugs because they made money from doing so. Doctors can sometimes receive more from insurers than they pay for the drugs, especially if they receive rebates from the manufacturers. Dr. Brawley said the drug companies had not done proper studies, and at one point asked them, &#8220;What data do you have to assure me that this is not Miracle-Gro for cancer?&#8221; The staff of the F.D.A. was also critical of the companies, saying they had not provided data they had promised when a similar advisory panel meeting was held in 2004. The companies and their advocates argued that ample data showed the drugs were safe when used properly, except for a long-known risk of increased blood clots. They also argued that the drugs had significant benefits. Forcing cancer patients to go back to transfusions, they said, would expose the patients to risks and inconvenience and further strain the nation&#8217;s already taxed blood supply. That sentiment was also voiced by some committee members. &#8220;I think the idea of going back to the dark ages in regards to supportive care is a step backward,&#8221; said Dr. S. Gail Eckhardt of the , the panel&#8217;s chairman. Advisory panel meetings often feature eloquent pleas from patients that a drug be approved or kept on the market. But there was not a big outpouring of support for the anemia drugs. In fact, some patients expressed dismay at how the drugs were used. &#8220;How is it possible that what was meant to help me might actually have made things worse?&#8221; said Lilla Romeo, who has had breast cancer since 1995. Next Article in Health (3 of 16) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. MARKET PLACE; Amgen Seeks To Reverse Its Bad News ImClone's Drug Fails in Pancreatic Cancer Study F.D.A. Approves Glaxo Cancer Drug Studies Show Anemia Drugs May Harm Cancer Patients Food and Drug Administration Next Article in Health (3 of 16) &#x00bb; Everything you need to know about heart disease Hip resurfacing: is it right for you? The changing attitudes towards "chemo brain" Treating the awkward years N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/washington/11fda.html	Passage of Drug Safety Bill Was Common Goal for Two Very Different Senators - New York Times Passage of Drug Safety Bill Was Common Goal for Two Very Different Senators Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 WASHINGTON, May 10 &#151; Legislation to beef up drug safety, passed by the Senate this week with only one dissenting vote, grew out of an extraordinary pact between two senators and a frantic effort by the pharmaceutical industry to avoid any disruption in the approval of new drugs. The bill would increase the fees paid by drug makers to help finance the work of the Food and Drug Administration and would give the agency new power to police company conduct. Industry lobbyists and executives said they supported the bill for one overriding reason: pink slips. Sometime this summer, if a bill has not passed, medical officers at the F.D.A. will start getting notices that they are in danger of being laid off by the end of the fiscal year on Sept. 30. Some of those officers are likely to be in the midst of reviewing new drug applications crucial to the future of drug makers. If those medical officers leave, drug approvals may be delayed &#151; a terrifying prospect for many companies. &#8220;The last thing we want is for F.D.A. employees to start thinking they may not have a job and start leaving,&#8221; said Alan R. Goldhammer, deputy vice president of Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America, a trade group for brand-name drug companies. In addition, many in the drug industry said they supported the bill because they believed that it would help restore public confidence in the nation&#8217;s drug supply. &#8220;There has been a loss of confidence in the F.D.A., and we can&#8217;t afford to have that,&#8221; said Dr. Joseph M. Feczko, Pfizer&#8217;s chief medical officer. &#8220;When our medicines come out, we want people to understand they have gone through a rigorous review process.&#8221; Under the bill, the F.D.A. could impose civil fines on companies that violated a drug safety plan or ran false or misleading advertisements. But major drug makers said they would comply with federal requirements, so the agency would not have reason to impose penalties on them. , Democrat of Massachusetts, was chief sponsor of the legislation, but Senator Michael B. Enzi, Republican of Wyoming, was equally responsible for its contents. In an unusual display of bipartisanship, they worked together to fend off amendments that would have made the bill unacceptable to the White House, raised the ire of the pharmaceutical industry or jeopardized chances for passage. &#8220;Kennedy and I have developed a trust,&#8221; Mr. Enzi said in an interview. &#8220;We don&#8217;t try to run over each other. We have a history of passing bills &#151; 27 signed by the president in the last two years.&#8221; An earlier version of the legislation was introduced by Mr. Enzi last August, when controlled Congress and he was chairman of the Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor and Pensions. When Democrats took control this year and Mr. Kennedy became chairman of the committee, he kept his compact with Mr. Enzi. Working together, they steered the legislation through the committee and the full Senate. Along the way, they accepted dozens of changes proposed by lawmakers of both parties. Mr. Enzi, an accountant and former owner of a shoe store, was mayor of Gillette, Wyo., and served 10 years in the State Legislature. His quiet manner could hardly differ more from that of Mr. Kennedy. Mr. Enzi is as conservative as Mr. Kennedy is liberal. But both are pragmatic legislative craftsmen. Mr. Enzi was recruited into politics by former Senator Alan K. Simpson, another Wyoming Republican who collaborated with Mr. Kennedy on many issues, including In an interview, Mr. Simpson said: &#8220;Mike is a legislator. He&#8217;s calm. He&#8217;s steady. He&#8217;s not a partisan kook or anything of that nature.&#8221; Mr. Simpson said Mr. Enzi and Mr. Kennedy had &#8220;a mutual admiration society, built on trust, respect and friendship, with none of the savage partisanship&#8221; found elsewhere in American politics. Mr. Enzi holds the Senate seat once held by Mr. Simpson and his father, Milward L. Simpson, who entered the Senate on the same day as Mr. Kennedy, Nov. 7, 1962. &#8220;Teddy loved my dad,&#8221; said Mr. Simpson, who nurtured the relationship between Mr. Enzi and Mr. Kennedy. , Republican of New Hampshire, voted against the drug safety bill in the committee, but worked with Mr. Kennedy and Mr. Enzi to make changes that won his support for the legislation on the floor. &#8220;There&#8217;s a Ted Kennedy who is quite flamboyant and partisan in the theater of the Senate,&#8221; Mr. Gregg said in an interview. &#8220;And there is a Ted Kennedy who is extremely bipartisan and willing to work with people in the back rooms of the Senate.&#8221; Industry officials breathed a huge sigh of relief when the Senate approved an amendment offered by Senator Thad Cochran, Republican of Mississippi, that would effectively maintain the current ban on imported drugs. Drug makers fiercely oppose efforts to legalize imports of lower-cost medicines from Canada and other countries. Having won that fight, drug company executives said, they decided not to fight other provisions that they saw as less threatening. &#8220;They need to pick their battles,&#8221; said Barbara Ryan, a pharmaceutical industry analyst at Deutsche Bank Securities. &#8220;Anything that doesn&#8217;t interfere with pricing and approvals is not going to hurt them seriously.&#8221; Still, many advocates, including some who support the bill&#8217;s passage, said the legislation was not the answer to the nation&#8217;s drug safety problems. &#8220;We have horrible leadership at the F.D.A., and they don&#8217;t even use the authorities they already have,&#8221; said Dr. Steven Nissen, chairman of the department of cardiovascular medicine at the Cleveland Clinic. More Articles in Washington &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Senate Vote Upholds Drug Import Limits Court Strikes Law Barring Sale of Drug Data Break Seen In Logjam Over Trade A State's Files Put Doctors' Ties To Drug Makers on Close View More Articles in Washington &#x00bb; The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/washington/11fda.html	Passage of Drug Safety Bill Was Common Goal for Two Very Different Senators - New York Times Passage of Drug Safety Bill Was Common Goal for Two Very Different Senators Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 WASHINGTON, May 10 &#151; Legislation to beef up drug safety, passed by the Senate this week with only one dissenting vote, grew out of an extraordinary pact between two senators and a frantic effort by the pharmaceutical industry to avoid any disruption in the approval of new drugs. The bill would increase the fees paid by drug makers to help finance the work of the Food and Drug Administration and would give the agency new power to police company conduct. Industry lobbyists and executives said they supported the bill for one overriding reason: pink slips. Sometime this summer, if a bill has not passed, medical officers at the F.D.A. will start getting notices that they are in danger of being laid off by the end of the fiscal year on Sept. 30. Some of those officers are likely to be in the midst of reviewing new drug applications crucial to the future of drug makers. If those medical officers leave, drug approvals may be delayed &#151; a terrifying prospect for many companies. &#8220;The last thing we want is for F.D.A. employees to start thinking they may not have a job and start leaving,&#8221; said Alan R. Goldhammer, deputy vice president of Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America, a trade group for brand-name drug companies. In addition, many in the drug industry said they supported the bill because they believed that it would help restore public confidence in the nation&#8217;s drug supply. &#8220;There has been a loss of confidence in the F.D.A., and we can&#8217;t afford to have that,&#8221; said Dr. Joseph M. Feczko, Pfizer&#8217;s chief medical officer. &#8220;When our medicines come out, we want people to understand they have gone through a rigorous review process.&#8221; Under the bill, the F.D.A. could impose civil fines on companies that violated a drug safety plan or ran false or misleading advertisements. But major drug makers said they would comply with federal requirements, so the agency would not have reason to impose penalties on them. , Democrat of Massachusetts, was chief sponsor of the legislation, but Senator Michael B. Enzi, Republican of Wyoming, was equally responsible for its contents. In an unusual display of bipartisanship, they worked together to fend off amendments that would have made the bill unacceptable to the White House, raised the ire of the pharmaceutical industry or jeopardized chances for passage. &#8220;Kennedy and I have developed a trust,&#8221; Mr. Enzi said in an interview. &#8220;We don&#8217;t try to run over each other. We have a history of passing bills &#151; 27 signed by the president in the last two years.&#8221; An earlier version of the legislation was introduced by Mr. Enzi last August, when controlled Congress and he was chairman of the Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor and Pensions. When Democrats took control this year and Mr. Kennedy became chairman of the committee, he kept his compact with Mr. Enzi. Working together, they steered the legislation through the committee and the full Senate. Along the way, they accepted dozens of changes proposed by lawmakers of both parties. Mr. Enzi, an accountant and former owner of a shoe store, was mayor of Gillette, Wyo., and served 10 years in the State Legislature. His quiet manner could hardly differ more from that of Mr. Kennedy. Mr. Enzi is as conservative as Mr. Kennedy is liberal. But both are pragmatic legislative craftsmen. Mr. Enzi was recruited into politics by former Senator Alan K. Simpson, another Wyoming Republican who collaborated with Mr. Kennedy on many issues, including In an interview, Mr. Simpson said: &#8220;Mike is a legislator. He&#8217;s calm. He&#8217;s steady. He&#8217;s not a partisan kook or anything of that nature.&#8221; Mr. Simpson said Mr. Enzi and Mr. Kennedy had &#8220;a mutual admiration society, built on trust, respect and friendship, with none of the savage partisanship&#8221; found elsewhere in American politics. Mr. Enzi holds the Senate seat once held by Mr. Simpson and his father, Milward L. Simpson, who entered the Senate on the same day as Mr. Kennedy, Nov. 7, 1962. &#8220;Teddy loved my dad,&#8221; said Mr. Simpson, who nurtured the relationship between Mr. Enzi and Mr. Kennedy. , Republican of New Hampshire, voted against the drug safety bill in the committee, but worked with Mr. Kennedy and Mr. Enzi to make changes that won his support for the legislation on the floor. &#8220;There&#8217;s a Ted Kennedy who is quite flamboyant and partisan in the theater of the Senate,&#8221; Mr. Gregg said in an interview. &#8220;And there is a Ted Kennedy who is extremely bipartisan and willing to work with people in the back rooms of the Senate.&#8221; Industry officials breathed a huge sigh of relief when the Senate approved an amendment offered by Senator Thad Cochran, Republican of Mississippi, that would effectively maintain the current ban on imported drugs. Drug makers fiercely oppose efforts to legalize imports of lower-cost medicines from Canada and other countries. Having won that fight, drug company executives said, they decided not to fight other provisions that they saw as less threatening. &#8220;They need to pick their battles,&#8221; said Barbara Ryan, a pharmaceutical industry analyst at Deutsche Bank Securities. &#8220;Anything that doesn&#8217;t interfere with pricing and approvals is not going to hurt them seriously.&#8221; Still, many advocates, including some who support the bill&#8217;s passage, said the legislation was not the answer to the nation&#8217;s drug safety problems. &#8220;We have horrible leadership at the F.D.A., and they don&#8217;t even use the authorities they already have,&#8221; said Dr. Steven Nissen, chairman of the department of cardiovascular medicine at the Cleveland Clinic. More Articles in Washington &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Senate Vote Upholds Drug Import Limits Court Strikes Law Barring Sale of Drug Data Break Seen In Logjam Over Trade A State's Files Put Doctors' Ties To Drug Makers on Close View More Articles in Washington &#x00bb; The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/health/15real.html	The Claim: Darker Skin Protects Against Skin Cancer - New York Times Mental Health & Behavior The Claim: Darker Skin Protects Against Skin Cancer Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 15, 2007 Skip to next paragraph It is well known that people with darker skin get deeper tans and burn less quickly than other people. But does that mean better protection against skin The answer is not clear-cut. Although darker-skinned people face a lower risk of skin cancer, they are more likely to develop more aggressive forms of the disease and more likely to die from it. A large part of the problem is a false sense of security. Dark skin has higher amounts of melanin that can filter as much as twice the amount of ultraviolet as paler skin. But that protection still falls short of what doctors recommend when using sunscreen: a skin protection factor, or SPF, of 15 or more. And because many people with dark skin believe that it provides complete immunity, experts say, they often overlook early warning signs. A 2006 study in The Archives of Internal Medicine looked at more than 1,500 people with melanoma. It found that whites were far less likely to have late-stage melanoma than blacks, Hispanics, American Indians and Asians. On average, whites also had a greater five-year survival rate (90 percent) than the others (less than 80 percent). Another study last year in The Archives of Dermatology looked at 1,700 cases of melanoma reported in Florida over a five-year period and had similar results. People with darker skin tones have a lower risk of skin cancer, but are more likely to die from it. Next Article in Health (4 of 8) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Next Article in Health (4 of 8) &#x00bb; Everything you need to know about heart disease Hip resurfacing: is it right for you? The changing attitudes towards "chemo brain" Treating the awkward years N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/health/15real.html	The Claim: Darker Skin Protects Against Skin Cancer - New York Times Mental Health & Behavior The Claim: Darker Skin Protects Against Skin Cancer Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 15, 2007 Skip to next paragraph It is well known that people with darker skin get deeper tans and burn less quickly than other people. But does that mean better protection against skin The answer is not clear-cut. Although darker-skinned people face a lower risk of skin cancer, they are more likely to develop more aggressive forms of the disease and more likely to die from it. A large part of the problem is a false sense of security. Dark skin has higher amounts of melanin that can filter as much as twice the amount of ultraviolet as paler skin. But that protection still falls short of what doctors recommend when using sunscreen: a skin protection factor, or SPF, of 15 or more. And because many people with dark skin believe that it provides complete immunity, experts say, they often overlook early warning signs. A 2006 study in The Archives of Internal Medicine looked at more than 1,500 people with melanoma. It found that whites were far less likely to have late-stage melanoma than blacks, Hispanics, American Indians and Asians. On average, whites also had a greater five-year survival rate (90 percent) than the others (less than 80 percent). Another study last year in The Archives of Dermatology looked at 1,700 cases of melanoma reported in Florida over a five-year period and had similar results. People with darker skin tones have a lower risk of skin cancer, but are more likely to die from it. Next Article in Health (4 of 8) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Next Article in Health (4 of 8) &#x00bb; Everything you need to know about heart disease Hip resurfacing: is it right for you? The changing attitudes towards "chemo brain" Treating the awkward years N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/washington/15medicare.html?ex=1336881600&en=f4e60b004c0abe1f&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Oklahoma Chides Insurer in Medicare Marketing Case - New York Times Oklahoma Chides Insurer in Medicare Marketing Case Kim Holland, Oklahoma insurance commissioner, said Humana &#147;did not adequately supervise its agents.&#148; Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 15, 2007 WASHINGTON, May 14 — In the first major investigation of Medicare marketing, the insurance commissioner has documented widespread misconduct by agents working for Humana and has ordered the company to take corrective action to protect consumers against high-pressure sales tactics. The commissioner, Kim Holland, said some agents had enrolled Medicare recipients in Humana products that “they did not understand and did not want.” At least 68 agents did not have the licenses needed to sell insurance in Oklahoma, Ms. Holland said Monday in an interview. “Humana took advantage of a new market, but did not adequately supervise its agents,” said Ms. Holland, who was an insurance agent for 25 years before becoming the state’s top insurance regulator in 2005. Humana has made a big push to expand its Medicare business and is now the second-largest participant in the Medicare market, after the UnitedHealth Group. Thomas T. Noland Jr., a senior vice president of Humana, said that people who chose its products were overwhelmingly satisfied. “As the guardian of the company’s reputation, I would know if there were any problems,” Mr. Noland said. In its latest financial report, Humana said its “increased sales and marketing efforts” had been effective. Enrollment in its Medicare Advantage plans totaled 1.1 million on March 31, up 50 percent from a year earlier, and the number of people in its free-standing drug plans shot up 77 percent, to 3.5 million. The drug plans provide pharmacy benefits, but do not pay for doctors or hospitals. Of the 41 states responding to a recent survey by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners, 39 said they had received complaints about misrepresentations by insurance agents or companies in marketing Medicare-related products. Twenty-two states reported complaints of fraudulent activity like falsifying signatures on applications. Many state insurance commissioners say some insurers have used improper hard-sell tactics to persuade Medicare recipients to sign up for private health plans. Oklahoma is the first state to conduct a formal “market conduct examination,” visiting a company’s offices and reviewing its files to assess sales practices. Karen M. Ignagni, president of America’s Health Insurance Plans, a trade group, said her organization would adopt stricter standards to ensure that agents provided “clear, complete and accurate information.” After being reprimanded by federal auditors, WellCare Health Plans announced new compliance measures last week. Janet S. Trautwein, executive vice president of the National Association of Health Underwriters, which represents insurance agents and brokers, said: “A few bad apples have been behaving unethically. I make no excuses for them. They do not reflect the behavior of the majority of agents who work with seniors.” The Oklahoma Insurance Department said it had found many cases in which agents enrolled Medicare beneficiaries in Humana plans that were not in their best interests. In some cases, the regulators said, consumers were confused because they had dementia or other mental impairments. Oklahoma investigators found that some people who wanted to buy just drug coverage from Humana were instead enrolled in “an unwanted plan,” a comprehensive Medicare Advantage plan. The investigators’ report said it appeared that some agents had used “bait-and-switch tactics to secure the initial invitation” into the homes of Medicare beneficiaries. In one case in the report, a man was switched to a Humana plan from traditional Medicare. As a result, he lost the extra benefits that he had under a Medicare supplement policy from Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Oklahoma, and he incurred additional costs when he became ill. The Oklahoma Insurance Department said: “The member had to borrow against his house to pay for these uninsured hospital and medical expenses. This was solely due to the failure of the agent to properly explain his existing coverage and the impact of purchasing a Medicare Advantage plan.” Humana investigated numerous complaints. But, the report said, in many cases “the investigation was conducted more to mitigate, justify and defend the actions of the agent and the company” than to help consumers. In its report, the Oklahoma Insurance Department also made these findings: ¶Humana gave agents a strong incentive to sell Medicare Advantage plans, typically paying a commission of $250 for each sale, five times as much as the commission for selling a prescription drug plan. ¶Humana did not maintain a complete record of complaints from Medicare beneficiaries, as required under Oklahoma law. ¶Independent agents had to complete a 16-hour training course that included three hours of “self-study” and four hours of telephone conference calls. “This training program,” the report said, “did not appear to be sufficiently comprehensive to fully cover a topic as complex as Medicare and the products which these agents would be selling.” More Articles in Washington &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Humana Profit More Than Doubles, Aided by Medicare Gains In Scramble for New Medicare Business, a Few Insurers Grab the Most COMPANY NEWS; HUMANA PROFIT UP SHARPLY AS MEDICARE ROLLS EXPAND COMPANY NEWS; HUMANA RAISES PROFIT ESTIMATE FOR FIRST QUARTER More Articles in Washington &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/washington/15medicare.html?ex=1336881600&en=f4e60b004c0abe1f&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Oklahoma Chides Insurer in Medicare Marketing Case - New York Times Oklahoma Chides Insurer in Medicare Marketing Case Kim Holland, Oklahoma insurance commissioner, said Humana &#147;did not adequately supervise its agents.&#148; Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 15, 2007 WASHINGTON, May 14 — In the first major investigation of Medicare marketing, the insurance commissioner has documented widespread misconduct by agents working for Humana and has ordered the company to take corrective action to protect consumers against high-pressure sales tactics. The commissioner, Kim Holland, said some agents had enrolled Medicare recipients in Humana products that “they did not understand and did not want.” At least 68 agents did not have the licenses needed to sell insurance in Oklahoma, Ms. Holland said Monday in an interview. “Humana took advantage of a new market, but did not adequately supervise its agents,” said Ms. Holland, who was an insurance agent for 25 years before becoming the state’s top insurance regulator in 2005. Humana has made a big push to expand its Medicare business and is now the second-largest participant in the Medicare market, after the UnitedHealth Group. Thomas T. Noland Jr., a senior vice president of Humana, said that people who chose its products were overwhelmingly satisfied. “As the guardian of the company’s reputation, I would know if there were any problems,” Mr. Noland said. In its latest financial report, Humana said its “increased sales and marketing efforts” had been effective. Enrollment in its Medicare Advantage plans totaled 1.1 million on March 31, up 50 percent from a year earlier, and the number of people in its free-standing drug plans shot up 77 percent, to 3.5 million. The drug plans provide pharmacy benefits, but do not pay for doctors or hospitals. Of the 41 states responding to a recent survey by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners, 39 said they had received complaints about misrepresentations by insurance agents or companies in marketing Medicare-related products. Twenty-two states reported complaints of fraudulent activity like falsifying signatures on applications. Many state insurance commissioners say some insurers have used improper hard-sell tactics to persuade Medicare recipients to sign up for private health plans. Oklahoma is the first state to conduct a formal “market conduct examination,” visiting a company’s offices and reviewing its files to assess sales practices. Karen M. Ignagni, president of America’s Health Insurance Plans, a trade group, said her organization would adopt stricter standards to ensure that agents provided “clear, complete and accurate information.” After being reprimanded by federal auditors, WellCare Health Plans announced new compliance measures last week. Janet S. Trautwein, executive vice president of the National Association of Health Underwriters, which represents insurance agents and brokers, said: “A few bad apples have been behaving unethically. I make no excuses for them. They do not reflect the behavior of the majority of agents who work with seniors.” The Oklahoma Insurance Department said it had found many cases in which agents enrolled Medicare beneficiaries in Humana plans that were not in their best interests. In some cases, the regulators said, consumers were confused because they had dementia or other mental impairments. Oklahoma investigators found that some people who wanted to buy just drug coverage from Humana were instead enrolled in “an unwanted plan,” a comprehensive Medicare Advantage plan. The investigators’ report said it appeared that some agents had used “bait-and-switch tactics to secure the initial invitation” into the homes of Medicare beneficiaries. In one case in the report, a man was switched to a Humana plan from traditional Medicare. As a result, he lost the extra benefits that he had under a Medicare supplement policy from Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Oklahoma, and he incurred additional costs when he became ill. The Oklahoma Insurance Department said: “The member had to borrow against his house to pay for these uninsured hospital and medical expenses. This was solely due to the failure of the agent to properly explain his existing coverage and the impact of purchasing a Medicare Advantage plan.” Humana investigated numerous complaints. But, the report said, in many cases “the investigation was conducted more to mitigate, justify and defend the actions of the agent and the company” than to help consumers. In its report, the Oklahoma Insurance Department also made these findings: ¶Humana gave agents a strong incentive to sell Medicare Advantage plans, typically paying a commission of $250 for each sale, five times as much as the commission for selling a prescription drug plan. ¶Humana did not maintain a complete record of complaints from Medicare beneficiaries, as required under Oklahoma law. ¶Independent agents had to complete a 16-hour training course that included three hours of “self-study” and four hours of telephone conference calls. “This training program,” the report said, “did not appear to be sufficiently comprehensive to fully cover a topic as complex as Medicare and the products which these agents would be selling.” More Articles in Washington &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Humana Profit More Than Doubles, Aided by Medicare Gains In Scramble for New Medicare Business, a Few Insurers Grab the Most COMPANY NEWS; HUMANA PROFIT UP SHARPLY AS MEDICARE ROLLS EXPAND COMPANY NEWS; HUMANA RAISES PROFIT ESTIMATE FOR FIRST QUARTER More Articles in Washington &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/pages/health/index.html	Health News - New York Times Mental Health & Behavior Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession By ABIGAIL ZUGER, M.D. Some doctors turned writers want to dispel the notion of medical magic, some offer social critique and some should keep their day jobs. As Demand for Donor Eggs Soars, High Prices Stir Ethical Concerns By RONI CARYN RABIN Many egg donors derive great satisfaction from knowing that they helped someone start a family, but sizable payments are raising controversy. More The Consumer Columns » Oklahoma Chides Insurer in Medicare Marketing Case Some agents for Humana have enrolled Medicare recipients in products that “they did not understand and did not want,” an official said. An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Some are questioning whether Oscar Pistorius’s prosthetic legs give him an unfair advantage over other sprinters. Q & A : Two Kinds of Oxygen Vital Signs: Patterns: Moderate Drinking May Ease Effects of ‘Bad’ Cholesterol Vital Signs: Nutrition: A Cardiovascular Argument for Eating Whole Grains Obama Says He’d Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest In Corzine’s Recovery, Doctors Cite Grit and Luck Westchester to Pay Woman in False TB Scare John K. Lattimer, Urologist of Varied Expertise, Dies at 92 In New Hampshire, Soft Sell Eases Vaccine Fears Doctor Grafted Skin to Aid Drug Dealers, U.S. Authorities Say Electric Pulses, Instead of Shocks, Can Help Heart Patients Some parents of children with Down syndrome want prospective parents to know the positive side of raising a child with the genetic condition. : Going Against the Flow A birth control pill designed to eliminate the monthly period may hit the market soon. : Choosing Hip Resurfacing Keith McDonald underwent hip resurfacing surgery, a newer alternative to total hip replacement. Dairy Council to End Ad Campaign That Linked Drinking Milk With Weight Loss The Yoga Therapist Will See You Now Passage of Drug Safety Bill Was Common Goal for Two Very Different Senators Senate Approves Tighter Policing of Drug Makers MENTAL HEALTH & BEHAVIOR» Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry’s Role Study Suggests Meditation Can Help Train Attention HPV Vaccine: Few Risks, Many Benefits By JANE E. BRODY Many parents remain wary about using the HPV vaccine for the girls and young women it was meant to protect. The Claim: Darker Skin Protects Against Skin Cancer People with darker skin get deeper tans and burn less quickly than other people, but does that mean better protection against skin cancer? Jane Brody, "Personal Health" columnist, discusses the latest health news. Genetic Testing + Abortion = ??? The right to choose, and the right to screen for sex, cancer genes or smarts. A user's guide to diagnostic tests. What you need to know about procedures and diagnoses for six major diseases. Go to Special Section » News from AP &#x00bb; Study: Vitamins Tied to Prostate Cancer Blood Pressure Rising Around the Globe Boy Receives New Heart at Ark. Hospital Researchers Examine Crystal Meth Effects Blood Pressure Rising Around the Globe FDA: FluMist Effective for Kids Under 5 Browse All Health Topics Select a Health Topic Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS) Dietary Supplements and Herbal Remedies Food Contamination and Poisoning Human Papilloma Virus (HPV) Mental Health and Disorders Post Traumatic Stress Disorder SARS (Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome) Seasonal Affective Disorder (SAD) Sexually Transmitted Diseases (STDs) Sudden Infant Death Syndrome Suicides and Suicide Attempts Health & Fitness Tools What's your score? » Calorie Calculator for Goal Weight What's your limit? » MOST POPULAR - HEALTH Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Vital Signs: Nutrition: A Cardiovascular Argument for Eating Whole Grains The Consumer: As Demand for Donor Eggs Soars, High Prices Stir Ethical Concerns Personal Health: HPV Vaccine: Few Risks, Many Benefits Vital Signs: Patterns: Moderate Drinking May Ease Effects of &#8216;Bad&#8217; Cholesterol Really?: The Claim: Darker Skin Protects Against Skin Cancer Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role Study Suggests Meditation Can Help Train Attention Jury Is Still Out on Gluten, the Latest Dietary Villain Go to Complete List » Psychiatrists, Troubled Children and Drug Industry's Role In New Hampshire, Soft Sell Eases Vaccine Fears Patterns: Moderate Drinking May Ease Effects of â€˜Bad' Cholesterol Electric Pulses, Instead of Shocks, Can Help Heart Patients Go to Complete List » Everything you need to know about heart disease Hip resurfacing: is it right for you? The changing attitudes towards "chemo brain" Treating the awkward years Miracle On Ice - 1980 What’s new on Broadway? Buy, sell or research a car. Which gadget is getting all the buzz? Be Prepared. For Your Major Purchase. What movie should you see? Photos, fine art, books and more. The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/pages/health/index.html	Health News - New York Times Mental Health & Behavior Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession By ABIGAIL ZUGER, M.D. Some doctors turned writers want to dispel the notion of medical magic, some offer social critique and some should keep their day jobs. As Demand for Donor Eggs Soars, High Prices Stir Ethical Concerns By RONI CARYN RABIN Many egg donors derive great satisfaction from knowing that they helped someone start a family, but sizable payments are raising controversy. More The Consumer Columns » Oklahoma Chides Insurer in Medicare Marketing Case Some agents for Humana have enrolled Medicare recipients in products that “they did not understand and did not want,” an official said. An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Some are questioning whether Oscar Pistorius’s prosthetic legs give him an unfair advantage over other sprinters. Q & A : Two Kinds of Oxygen Vital Signs: Patterns: Moderate Drinking May Ease Effects of ‘Bad’ Cholesterol Vital Signs: Nutrition: A Cardiovascular Argument for Eating Whole Grains Obama Says He’d Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest In Corzine’s Recovery, Doctors Cite Grit and Luck Westchester to Pay Woman in False TB Scare John K. Lattimer, Urologist of Varied Expertise, Dies at 92 In New Hampshire, Soft Sell Eases Vaccine Fears Doctor Grafted Skin to Aid Drug Dealers, U.S. Authorities Say Electric Pulses, Instead of Shocks, Can Help Heart Patients Some parents of children with Down syndrome want prospective parents to know the positive side of raising a child with the genetic condition. : Going Against the Flow A birth control pill designed to eliminate the monthly period may hit the market soon. : Choosing Hip Resurfacing Keith McDonald underwent hip resurfacing surgery, a newer alternative to total hip replacement. Dairy Council to End Ad Campaign That Linked Drinking Milk With Weight Loss The Yoga Therapist Will See You Now Passage of Drug Safety Bill Was Common Goal for Two Very Different Senators Senate Approves Tighter Policing of Drug Makers MENTAL HEALTH & BEHAVIOR» Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry’s Role Study Suggests Meditation Can Help Train Attention HPV Vaccine: Few Risks, Many Benefits By JANE E. BRODY Many parents remain wary about using the HPV vaccine for the girls and young women it was meant to protect. The Claim: Darker Skin Protects Against Skin Cancer People with darker skin get deeper tans and burn less quickly than other people, but does that mean better protection against skin cancer? Jane Brody, "Personal Health" columnist, discusses the latest health news. Genetic Testing + Abortion = ??? The right to choose, and the right to screen for sex, cancer genes or smarts. A user's guide to diagnostic tests. What you need to know about procedures and diagnoses for six major diseases. Go to Special Section » News from AP &#x00bb; Study: Vitamins Tied to Prostate Cancer Blood Pressure Rising Around the Globe Boy Receives New Heart at Ark. Hospital Researchers Examine Crystal Meth Effects Blood Pressure Rising Around the Globe FDA: FluMist Effective for Kids Under 5 Browse All Health Topics Select a Health Topic Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS) Dietary Supplements and Herbal Remedies Food Contamination and Poisoning Human Papilloma Virus (HPV) Mental Health and Disorders Post Traumatic Stress Disorder SARS (Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome) Seasonal Affective Disorder (SAD) Sexually Transmitted Diseases (STDs) Sudden Infant Death Syndrome Suicides and Suicide Attempts Health & Fitness Tools What's your score? » Calorie Calculator for Goal Weight What's your limit? » MOST POPULAR - HEALTH Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Vital Signs: Nutrition: A Cardiovascular Argument for Eating Whole Grains The Consumer: As Demand for Donor Eggs Soars, High Prices Stir Ethical Concerns Personal Health: HPV Vaccine: Few Risks, Many Benefits Vital Signs: Patterns: Moderate Drinking May Ease Effects of &#8216;Bad&#8217; Cholesterol Really?: The Claim: Darker Skin Protects Against Skin Cancer Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role Study Suggests Meditation Can Help Train Attention Jury Is Still Out on Gluten, the Latest Dietary Villain Go to Complete List » Psychiatrists, Troubled Children and Drug Industry's Role In New Hampshire, Soft Sell Eases Vaccine Fears Patterns: Moderate Drinking May Ease Effects of â€˜Bad' Cholesterol Electric Pulses, Instead of Shocks, Can Help Heart Patients Go to Complete List » Everything you need to know about heart disease Hip resurfacing: is it right for you? The changing attitudes towards "chemo brain" Treating the awkward years Miracle On Ice - 1980 What’s new on Broadway? Buy, sell or research a car. Which gadget is getting all the buzz? Be Prepared. For Your Major Purchase. What movie should you see? Photos, fine art, books and more. The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/health/15cons.html	Egg Donation - Infertility - Invitro Fertilization - As Demand for Donor Eggs Soars, High Prices Stir Ethical Concerns - New York Times Mental Health & Behavior As Demand for Donor Eggs Soars, High Prices Stir Ethical Concerns Sign In to E-Mail or Save This By RONI CARYN RABIN Published: May 15, 2007 Samantha Carolan was 23 and fresh out of graduate school when she decided to donate eggs to an infertile couple. Ms. Carolan concedes that she would never have done it if not for the money, $7,000 that she used to pay off some Skip to next paragraph More The Consumer Columns » She has since had a second egg extraction, for which she was paid $8,000, and she is planning a third before taking a break. “The first time, it’s frightening,” said Ms. Carolan, now 24, of Winfield Park, N.J. “It is surgery, and I don’t think I would have done it without compensation. But I had very limited pain, and it was a great experience for me. I would have done it the second time for less money or even no compensation.” Though many egg donors derive great satisfaction from knowing that they helped someone start a family, the price of eggs has soared in recent years as demand has increased, and the sizable payments raise controversy. A survey published this month in the journal Fertility and Sterility, “What Is Happening to the Price of Eggs?” found that the national average compensation for donors was $4,217. At least one center told the authors of the paper that it paid $15,000. Many centers did not respond. Though laws prohibit the sale of transplant organs, sperm donors have always received small payments, and prospective parents in the United States are allowed to compensate women for their far greater expenditure of time and energy. (Many countries, including Canada and Britain, do prohibit payments to egg donors.) The American Society for Reproductive Medicine considers compensation of $5,000 or more to “require justification” and sums exceeding $10,000 “beyond what is appropriate.” Meanwhile, advertisements recruiting students from elite universities to donate promise tens of thousands of dollars, and donor agencies have sprung up, appealing to would-be parents with online videos and photo galleries of donors. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention , 5,767 babies were born in 2003 from donor eggs; the number of actual egg donations is probably much higher, however, because the success rate is fairly low. Ethicists and some women’s health advocates worry that lucrative payments are enticing young women with credit-card debt and steep tuition bills to sell eggs without seriously evaluating the risks. “The real issue is whether the money can cloud someone’s judgment,” said Josephine Johnston, an associate for law and bioethics at the Hastings Center, a research group in Garrison, N.Y., that specializes in medical ethics. She does not oppose compensation, but she does worry about high prices. “We hear about egg donors being paid enormous amounts of money, $50,000 or $60,000,” Ms. Johnston said. “How much is that person actually giving informed consent about the medical procedure and really listening and thinking as it’s being described and its risks are explained?” Adding to the debate was a proposal by lawmakers in Maryland to ban payments for eggs. Proponents of compensation say if payments are lowered or eliminated, the supply of eggs will dwindle or dry up. “Women aren’t exactly lining up to be donors,” said Dr. Mark Sauer, director of the Center for Women’s Reproductive Care at the Columbia University Medical Center . “There are a lot more recipients than donors.” Part of the problem is that the risks of donation have not been thoroughly studied. Although the consensus among most reproductive endocrinologists is that extraction is safe, five deaths have been reported in Britain. There are enough unanswered questions that researchers have promised not to pay for eggs. “One of the most striking facts about in vitro fertilization is just how little is known with certainty about the long-term health outcomes for the women who undergo the procedure,” a recent report by the The 2005 guidelines of the National Academy of Sciences for human embryonic stem cell research discourage paying for eggs for research. The California Institute for Regenerative Medicine reimburses women only for out-of-pocket expenses like lost wages or cab fare. “As a public agency, we felt we shouldn’t be putting money on the table that might induce someone to take a risk,” said Geoffrey Lomax, senior officer for medical and ethical standards at the institute. So far, women have not come forward to give away eggs for research. “I just completed an outreach initiative to 21 institutions across the state that we’ve funded,” Dr. Lomax said. “No one has had an egg donated specifically for research.” The reluctance is understandable. The process of egg extraction is time consuming, and it is not comfortable. For some women, it can be painful. A woman first has to take medications to stop her menstrual cycle and then daily hormone injections for several weeks to stimulate her ovaries to produce a crop of mature eggs at once. The drugs may cause bloating, weight gain, moodiness and irritability, and there is a risk of a rare condition called ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome that can cause life-threatening complications, blood clots and kidney failure. The egg extraction itself is a surgical procedure in which a thin needle is inserted through the vagina into the ovary to retrieve the eggs and liquid from the follicles. Risks include adverse responses to , infection, bleeding or the inadvertent puncture of an organ. It is the long-term risks, both physical and psychological, that are harder to assess. Questions have been raised about whether extraction may jeopardize the donor’s fertility, and critics worry about the potential psychological harm to a donor of eggs as a young woman who later finds that she is unable to have children. And since egg donors go through much the same process as women trying to conceive in vitro, there are concerns that they may be prone to the higher rates of certain cancers that some studies have found among infertility patients. Still, said Dr. James A. Grifo, director of the division of reproductive endocrinology at the New York University School of Medicine, “There is no credible evidence of long-lasting effects or health consequences down the line.” That does not necessarily mean that the procedures are safe. “There’s no health-outcome data collected by anybody other than some voluntary reporting, and there’s no postmarket testing on how these drugs are being used,” said Susan Berke Fogel, co-founder of the Pro-Choice Alliance for Responsible Research, a project of the Public Health Institute in Oakland, Calif. In a recent article in The New England Journal of Medicine, a Harvard Business School professor said the controversy over the price of eggs was obscuring questions of women’s health. The author, Debora L. Spar, an economist who wrote “The Baby Business” last year, calls for more studies of the drugs being used, more long-term follow-up of donors and federal regulations to ensure proper informed consent. When Ms. Carolan went to donate, the short-term risks were described to her in detail, but she said she did not recall any mention of possible long-term risks. Her family opposed her decision because they worried about her health, she said, and her friends did not understand. “They all think I’m crazy,” she said. “If the topic comes up, and I tell friends I’ve done it, they’re like: ‘Why? Oh my God, aren’t you afraid you have a baby out there?’ They’re so stunned and shocked.” Then she tells them how much she was paid. “And then they go, ‘O.K., I understand now, that’s cool,’ ” she said. “People understand the money.” Next Article in Health (2 of 8) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Study of Mice Reproduction Discovers Egg Regeneration Thawed Ovary Tissue Yields Healthy Embryo Studies Aim to Preserve Fertility of Women in Chemotherapy Ballerina's Ovarian Tissue Transplant Gives Hope to Other Young Women Facing Infertility Next Article in Health (2 of 8) &#x00bb; Everything you need to know about heart disease Hip resurfacing: is it right for you? The changing attitudes towards "chemo brain" Treating the awkward years N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/health/15cons.html	Egg Donation - Infertility - Invitro Fertilization - As Demand for Donor Eggs Soars, High Prices Stir Ethical Concerns - New York Times Mental Health & Behavior As Demand for Donor Eggs Soars, High Prices Stir Ethical Concerns Sign In to E-Mail or Save This By RONI CARYN RABIN Published: May 15, 2007 Samantha Carolan was 23 and fresh out of graduate school when she decided to donate eggs to an infertile couple. Ms. Carolan concedes that she would never have done it if not for the money, $7,000 that she used to pay off some Skip to next paragraph More The Consumer Columns » She has since had a second egg extraction, for which she was paid $8,000, and she is planning a third before taking a break. “The first time, it’s frightening,” said Ms. Carolan, now 24, of Winfield Park, N.J. “It is surgery, and I don’t think I would have done it without compensation. But I had very limited pain, and it was a great experience for me. I would have done it the second time for less money or even no compensation.” Though many egg donors derive great satisfaction from knowing that they helped someone start a family, the price of eggs has soared in recent years as demand has increased, and the sizable payments raise controversy. A survey published this month in the journal Fertility and Sterility, “What Is Happening to the Price of Eggs?” found that the national average compensation for donors was $4,217. At least one center told the authors of the paper that it paid $15,000. Many centers did not respond. Though laws prohibit the sale of transplant organs, sperm donors have always received small payments, and prospective parents in the United States are allowed to compensate women for their far greater expenditure of time and energy. (Many countries, including Canada and Britain, do prohibit payments to egg donors.) The American Society for Reproductive Medicine considers compensation of $5,000 or more to “require justification” and sums exceeding $10,000 “beyond what is appropriate.” Meanwhile, advertisements recruiting students from elite universities to donate promise tens of thousands of dollars, and donor agencies have sprung up, appealing to would-be parents with online videos and photo galleries of donors. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention , 5,767 babies were born in 2003 from donor eggs; the number of actual egg donations is probably much higher, however, because the success rate is fairly low. Ethicists and some women’s health advocates worry that lucrative payments are enticing young women with credit-card debt and steep tuition bills to sell eggs without seriously evaluating the risks. “The real issue is whether the money can cloud someone’s judgment,” said Josephine Johnston, an associate for law and bioethics at the Hastings Center, a research group in Garrison, N.Y., that specializes in medical ethics. She does not oppose compensation, but she does worry about high prices. “We hear about egg donors being paid enormous amounts of money, $50,000 or $60,000,” Ms. Johnston said. “How much is that person actually giving informed consent about the medical procedure and really listening and thinking as it’s being described and its risks are explained?” Adding to the debate was a proposal by lawmakers in Maryland to ban payments for eggs. Proponents of compensation say if payments are lowered or eliminated, the supply of eggs will dwindle or dry up. “Women aren’t exactly lining up to be donors,” said Dr. Mark Sauer, director of the Center for Women’s Reproductive Care at the Columbia University Medical Center . “There are a lot more recipients than donors.” Part of the problem is that the risks of donation have not been thoroughly studied. Although the consensus among most reproductive endocrinologists is that extraction is safe, five deaths have been reported in Britain. There are enough unanswered questions that researchers have promised not to pay for eggs. “One of the most striking facts about in vitro fertilization is just how little is known with certainty about the long-term health outcomes for the women who undergo the procedure,” a recent report by the The 2005 guidelines of the National Academy of Sciences for human embryonic stem cell research discourage paying for eggs for research. The California Institute for Regenerative Medicine reimburses women only for out-of-pocket expenses like lost wages or cab fare. “As a public agency, we felt we shouldn’t be putting money on the table that might induce someone to take a risk,” said Geoffrey Lomax, senior officer for medical and ethical standards at the institute. So far, women have not come forward to give away eggs for research. “I just completed an outreach initiative to 21 institutions across the state that we’ve funded,” Dr. Lomax said. “No one has had an egg donated specifically for research.” The reluctance is understandable. The process of egg extraction is time consuming, and it is not comfortable. For some women, it can be painful. A woman first has to take medications to stop her menstrual cycle and then daily hormone injections for several weeks to stimulate her ovaries to produce a crop of mature eggs at once. The drugs may cause bloating, weight gain, moodiness and irritability, and there is a risk of a rare condition called ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome that can cause life-threatening complications, blood clots and kidney failure. The egg extraction itself is a surgical procedure in which a thin needle is inserted through the vagina into the ovary to retrieve the eggs and liquid from the follicles. Risks include adverse responses to , infection, bleeding or the inadvertent puncture of an organ. It is the long-term risks, both physical and psychological, that are harder to assess. Questions have been raised about whether extraction may jeopardize the donor’s fertility, and critics worry about the potential psychological harm to a donor of eggs as a young woman who later finds that she is unable to have children. And since egg donors go through much the same process as women trying to conceive in vitro, there are concerns that they may be prone to the higher rates of certain cancers that some studies have found among infertility patients. Still, said Dr. James A. Grifo, director of the division of reproductive endocrinology at the New York University School of Medicine, “There is no credible evidence of long-lasting effects or health consequences down the line.” That does not necessarily mean that the procedures are safe. “There’s no health-outcome data collected by anybody other than some voluntary reporting, and there’s no postmarket testing on how these drugs are being used,” said Susan Berke Fogel, co-founder of the Pro-Choice Alliance for Responsible Research, a project of the Public Health Institute in Oakland, Calif. In a recent article in The New England Journal of Medicine, a Harvard Business School professor said the controversy over the price of eggs was obscuring questions of women’s health. The author, Debora L. Spar, an economist who wrote “The Baby Business” last year, calls for more studies of the drugs being used, more long-term follow-up of donors and federal regulations to ensure proper informed consent. When Ms. Carolan went to donate, the short-term risks were described to her in detail, but she said she did not recall any mention of possible long-term risks. Her family opposed her decision because they worried about her health, she said, and her friends did not understand. “They all think I’m crazy,” she said. “If the topic comes up, and I tell friends I’ve done it, they’re like: ‘Why? Oh my God, aren’t you afraid you have a baby out there?’ They’re so stunned and shocked.” Then she tells them how much she was paid. “And then they go, ‘O.K., I understand now, that’s cool,’ ” she said. “People understand the money.” Next Article in Health (2 of 8) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Study of Mice Reproduction Discovers Egg Regeneration Thawed Ovary Tissue Yields Healthy Embryo Studies Aim to Preserve Fertility of Women in Chemotherapy Ballerina's Ovarian Tissue Transplant Gives Hope to Other Young Women Facing Infertility Next Article in Health (2 of 8) &#x00bb; Everything you need to know about heart disease Hip resurfacing: is it right for you? The changing attitudes towards "chemo brain" Treating the awkward years N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/health/15brod.html	Cervical Cancer Vaccine - HPV - Jane Brody - New York Times Mental Health & Behavior HPV Vaccine: Few Risks, Many Benefits Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 15, 2007 What is it that some parents don’t understand about the HPV vaccine, licensed last summer in hopes of preventing most cases of genital warts and cervical Skip to next paragraph , or HPV, are the most common ¶That there is no treatment for HPV infections? ¶That cervical cancer is the most serious sexually transmitted disease caused by this virus? ¶That 70 percent of cases of cervical cancer arise because of two variants of the virus that the new vaccine protects against? ¶ That 90 percent of genital warts cases are caused by two other variants of the virus that are countered by the vaccine? ¶That most people infected with HPV do not know it, yet can transmit the virus to an unsuspecting sexual partner? ¶That 20 percent of American girls 14 to 19 are infected, and the vaccine works only if administered before women contract the viral variants it is intended to prevent? Despite these facts, the vaccine, sold by Merck as Gardasil, has been mired in controversy, and many parents remain wary about using it for the girls and young women it was meant to protect. Are the Objections Valid? One commonly voiced thought is that immunizing young girls against HPV will encourage promiscuity and that the message to these youngsters should be abstinence before marriage and monogamy after. But the abstinence message is rarely effective. Half of all girls become sexually active before graduating from high school. For some girls and women, sexual behavior occurs against their will, through rape, incest and date rape. Why would this vaccine give girls license to be sexually indulgent? It protects against only one sexually transmitted problem, and there are so many others, including and, of course, unwanted Another concern involves long-term safety. How do we know this vaccine will not eventually cause other problems like autoimmune or neurological disorders or lose its protective powers or foster the dominance of other HPV variants? Actually, we don’t. But we do have at least five years of safety data that include no hints of long-term risks or waning effectiveness. But if the vaccine should begin to lose potency over time, that could easily be remedied by a booster shot. In response to suggestions of mandatory HPV for all girls entering high school, opponents have objected to “forcing” therapy on healthy girls under the presumption that future behavior might result in a disease. This is exactly the principle on which every form of immunization is based. Not everyone contracted before the advent of mandatory vaccines to protect every child. We vaccinate the masses, causing herd immunity, to protect the relatively few who would otherwise become ill and suffer devastating consequences. Finally, objections have been raised about costs. This vaccine is not cheap. Each dose costs $120, or $360 for the three doses needed for full protection, far more than any other commonly used vaccine. If a booster shot is needed later, that could mean another $120. If the vaccine is made mandatory, states might have to pay for immunizing girls not covered by insurance. Still, HPV infections are far more costly. As noted in the March issue of The American Journal of Obstetrics and Gynecology: “The annual burden of cervical HPV-related disease ranges from $2.25 billion to $4.6 billion in the United States. The annual burden of cervical cancer ranges from $181.5 million to $363 million.” This is not to mention the physical and emotional costs of cervical cancer to affected women, most of whom can no longer have children and some of whom die of the disease. An estimated 20 million Americans are infected with HPV, and 6.2 percent of girls 15 to 19 become infected each year. All told, more than six million new HPV infections occur annually, 74 percent of them in people 15 to 24. Human papillomaviruses are ubiquitous, and HPV infections are more the norm than the exception. At least half of sexually active men and women acquire genital HPV infections at some point in their lives. A recent estimate suggests that by age 50, 80 percent of women will have acquired genital HPV. Not all HPV infections would be prevented by the new vaccine. There are about 30 variants of the virus that commonly infect men and women. Although the vaccine prevents only four, these four are critically important, because they account for vast majorities of cases of both genital warts and cervical cancer. Still, because 30 percent of cervical cancers are because of HPV variants not included in the vaccine, even if a woman is fully immunized, she still needs regular Pap smears. Next Article in Health (3 of 8) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. In New Hampshire, Soft Sell Eases Vaccine Fears SECOND OPINION; A Vital Discussion, Clouded Texas Is First To Require Cancer Shots For Schoolgirls Human Papilloma Virus (HPV) Next Article in Health (3 of 8) &#x00bb; Everything you need to know about heart disease Hip resurfacing: is it right for you? The changing attitudes towards "chemo brain" Treating the awkward years N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/health/15brod.html	Cervical Cancer Vaccine - HPV - Jane Brody - New York Times Mental Health & Behavior HPV Vaccine: Few Risks, Many Benefits Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 15, 2007 What is it that some parents don’t understand about the HPV vaccine, licensed last summer in hopes of preventing most cases of genital warts and cervical Skip to next paragraph , or HPV, are the most common ¶That there is no treatment for HPV infections? ¶That cervical cancer is the most serious sexually transmitted disease caused by this virus? ¶That 70 percent of cases of cervical cancer arise because of two variants of the virus that the new vaccine protects against? ¶ That 90 percent of genital warts cases are caused by two other variants of the virus that are countered by the vaccine? ¶That most people infected with HPV do not know it, yet can transmit the virus to an unsuspecting sexual partner? ¶That 20 percent of American girls 14 to 19 are infected, and the vaccine works only if administered before women contract the viral variants it is intended to prevent? Despite these facts, the vaccine, sold by Merck as Gardasil, has been mired in controversy, and many parents remain wary about using it for the girls and young women it was meant to protect. Are the Objections Valid? One commonly voiced thought is that immunizing young girls against HPV will encourage promiscuity and that the message to these youngsters should be abstinence before marriage and monogamy after. But the abstinence message is rarely effective. Half of all girls become sexually active before graduating from high school. For some girls and women, sexual behavior occurs against their will, through rape, incest and date rape. Why would this vaccine give girls license to be sexually indulgent? It protects against only one sexually transmitted problem, and there are so many others, including and, of course, unwanted Another concern involves long-term safety. How do we know this vaccine will not eventually cause other problems like autoimmune or neurological disorders or lose its protective powers or foster the dominance of other HPV variants? Actually, we don’t. But we do have at least five years of safety data that include no hints of long-term risks or waning effectiveness. But if the vaccine should begin to lose potency over time, that could easily be remedied by a booster shot. In response to suggestions of mandatory HPV for all girls entering high school, opponents have objected to “forcing” therapy on healthy girls under the presumption that future behavior might result in a disease. This is exactly the principle on which every form of immunization is based. Not everyone contracted before the advent of mandatory vaccines to protect every child. We vaccinate the masses, causing herd immunity, to protect the relatively few who would otherwise become ill and suffer devastating consequences. Finally, objections have been raised about costs. This vaccine is not cheap. Each dose costs $120, or $360 for the three doses needed for full protection, far more than any other commonly used vaccine. If a booster shot is needed later, that could mean another $120. If the vaccine is made mandatory, states might have to pay for immunizing girls not covered by insurance. Still, HPV infections are far more costly. As noted in the March issue of The American Journal of Obstetrics and Gynecology: “The annual burden of cervical HPV-related disease ranges from $2.25 billion to $4.6 billion in the United States. The annual burden of cervical cancer ranges from $181.5 million to $363 million.” This is not to mention the physical and emotional costs of cervical cancer to affected women, most of whom can no longer have children and some of whom die of the disease. An estimated 20 million Americans are infected with HPV, and 6.2 percent of girls 15 to 19 become infected each year. All told, more than six million new HPV infections occur annually, 74 percent of them in people 15 to 24. Human papillomaviruses are ubiquitous, and HPV infections are more the norm than the exception. At least half of sexually active men and women acquire genital HPV infections at some point in their lives. A recent estimate suggests that by age 50, 80 percent of women will have acquired genital HPV. Not all HPV infections would be prevented by the new vaccine. There are about 30 variants of the virus that commonly infect men and women. Although the vaccine prevents only four, these four are critically important, because they account for vast majorities of cases of both genital warts and cervical cancer. Still, because 30 percent of cervical cancers are because of HPV variants not included in the vaccine, even if a woman is fully immunized, she still needs regular Pap smears. Next Article in Health (3 of 8) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. In New Hampshire, Soft Sell Eases Vaccine Fears SECOND OPINION; A Vital Discussion, Clouded Texas Is First To Require Cancer Shots For Schoolgirls Human Papilloma Virus (HPV) Next Article in Health (3 of 8) &#x00bb; Everything you need to know about heart disease Hip resurfacing: is it right for you? The changing attitudes towards "chemo brain" Treating the awkward years N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/health/15real.html?ex=1336881600&en=307c0e4aea4db173&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	The Claim: Darker Skin Protects Against Skin Cancer - New York Times Mental Health & Behavior The Claim: Darker Skin Protects Against Skin Cancer Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 15, 2007 Skip to next paragraph It is well known that people with darker skin get deeper tans and burn less quickly than other people. But does that mean better protection against skin The answer is not clear-cut. Although darker-skinned people face a lower risk of skin cancer, they are more likely to develop more aggressive forms of the disease and more likely to die from it. A large part of the problem is a false sense of security. Dark skin has higher amounts of melanin that can filter as much as twice the amount of ultraviolet as paler skin. But that protection still falls short of what doctors recommend when using sunscreen: a skin protection factor, or SPF, of 15 or more. And because many people with dark skin believe that it provides complete immunity, experts say, they often overlook early warning signs. A 2006 study in The Archives of Internal Medicine looked at more than 1,500 people with melanoma. It found that whites were far less likely to have late-stage melanoma than blacks, Hispanics, American Indians and Asians. On average, whites also had a greater five-year survival rate (90 percent) than the others (less than 80 percent). Another study last year in The Archives of Dermatology looked at 1,700 cases of melanoma reported in Florida over a five-year period and had similar results. People with darker skin tones have a lower risk of skin cancer, but are more likely to die from it. Next Article in Health (4 of 8) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Next Article in Health (4 of 8) &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » Everything you need to know about heart disease Hip resurfacing: is it right for you? The changing attitudes towards "chemo brain" Treating the awkward years N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/health/15real.html?ex=1336881600&en=307c0e4aea4db173&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	The Claim: Darker Skin Protects Against Skin Cancer - New York Times Mental Health & Behavior The Claim: Darker Skin Protects Against Skin Cancer Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 15, 2007 Skip to next paragraph It is well known that people with darker skin get deeper tans and burn less quickly than other people. But does that mean better protection against skin The answer is not clear-cut. Although darker-skinned people face a lower risk of skin cancer, they are more likely to develop more aggressive forms of the disease and more likely to die from it. A large part of the problem is a false sense of security. Dark skin has higher amounts of melanin that can filter as much as twice the amount of ultraviolet as paler skin. But that protection still falls short of what doctors recommend when using sunscreen: a skin protection factor, or SPF, of 15 or more. And because many people with dark skin believe that it provides complete immunity, experts say, they often overlook early warning signs. A 2006 study in The Archives of Internal Medicine looked at more than 1,500 people with melanoma. It found that whites were far less likely to have late-stage melanoma than blacks, Hispanics, American Indians and Asians. On average, whites also had a greater five-year survival rate (90 percent) than the others (less than 80 percent). Another study last year in The Archives of Dermatology looked at 1,700 cases of melanoma reported in Florida over a five-year period and had similar results. People with darker skin tones have a lower risk of skin cancer, but are more likely to die from it. Next Article in Health (4 of 8) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Next Article in Health (4 of 8) &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » Everything you need to know about heart disease Hip resurfacing: is it right for you? The changing attitudes towards "chemo brain" Treating the awkward years N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/sports/othersports/15runner.html?ex=1336881600&en=a526b1706f63d1d6&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? - New York Times An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? &#147;I don&#146;t see myself as disabled,&#148; said Oscar Pistorius, a former rugby and water polo player. &#147;There&#146;s nothing I can&#146;t do that able-bodied athletes can do.&#148; Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 15, 2007 MANCHESTER, England, May 14 — As Oscar Pistorius of South Africa crouched in the starting blocks for the 200 meters on Sunday, the small crowd turned its attention to the sprinter who calls himself the fastest man on no legs. Skip to next paragraph Do you think athletes with prosthetics should be allowed to compete with able-bodied athletes? Video: Oscar Pistorius's Victory in the T44 Men's 200 Meters Christopher Furlong/Getty Images, for The New York Times Pistorius, left, won the 200-meter race at the Paralympic World Cup. He wants to compete in the 2008 Olympics. Pistorius wants to be the first amputee runner to compete in the Olympics. But despite his ascendance, he is facing resistance from track and field’s world governing body, which is seeking to bar him on the grounds that the technology of his prosthetics may give him an unfair advantage over sprinters using their natural legs. His first strides were choppy Sunday, a necessary accommodation to sprinting on a pair of j-shaped blades made of carbon fiber and known as Cheetahs. Pistorius was born without the fibula in his lower legs and with other defects in his feet. He had both legs amputated below the knee when he was 11 months old. At 20, his coach says, he is like a five-speed engine with no second gear. Yet Pistorius is also a searing talent who has begun erasing the lines between abled and disabled, raising philosophical questions: What should an athlete look like? Where should limits be placed on technology to balance fair play with the right to compete? Would the nature of sport be altered if athletes using artificial limbs could run faster or jump higher than the best athletes using their natural limbs? Once at full speed Sunday, Pistorius handily won the 100 and 200 meters here at the Paralympic World Cup, an international competition for disabled athletes. A cold, rainy afternoon tempered his performances, but his victories came decisively and kept him aimed toward his goal of the 2008 Summer Olympics in Beijing, even though international track officials seek to block his entrance. Since March, Pistorius has delivered startling record performances for disabled athletes at 100 meters (10.91 seconds), 200 meters (21.58 seconds) and 400 meters (46.34 seconds). Those times do not meet Olympic qualifying standards for men, but the Beijing Games are still 15 months away. Already, Pistorius is fast enough that his marks would have won gold medals in equivalent women’s races at the 2004 Athens Olympics. Pistorius’s time of 46.56 in the 400 earned him a second-place finish in March against able-bodied runners at the South African national championships. This seemingly makes him a candidate for the Olympic 4x400-meter relay should South Africa qualify as one of the world’s 16 fastest teams. “I don’t see myself as disabled,” said the blond, spiky-haired Pistorius, a former rugby and water polo player who declines to park in spaces reserved for the disabled. “There’s nothing I can’t do that able-bodied athletes can do.” An Equalizer or an Edge? Still, the question persists: Do prosthetic legs simply level the playing field for Pistorius, compensating for his disability, or do they give him an inequitable edge via what some call techno-doping? Experts say there have been limited scientific studies on the biomechanics of amputee runners, especially those missing both legs. And because Pistorius lost his legs as an infant, his speed on carbon-fiber legs cannot be compared with his speed on natural legs. Track and field’s world governing body, based in Monaco and known by the initials I.A.A.F., has recently prohibited the use of technological aids like springs and wheels, disqualifying Pistorius from events that it sanctions. A final ruling is expected in August. allows governing bodies to make their own eligibility rules, though it can intervene. Since 2004, for example, transgender athletes have been allowed to compete in the Olympics. “With all due respect, we cannot accept something that provides advantages,” said Elio Locatelli of Italy, the director of development for the I.A.A.F., urging Pistorius to concentrate on the Paralympics that will follow the Olympics in Beijing. “It affects the purity of sport. Next will be another device where people can fly with something on their back.” Others have questioned the governing body’s motivation. Next Article in Sports (3 of 27) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Where Beating the Odds Is Nothing New TRACK AND FIELD; It's All in the Timing SIDELINES: A PERSONAL VICTORY; Although Disabled He's Not Unable Student Wins the Right To Race in Wheelchair Next Article in Sports (3 of 27) &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Miracle On Ice - 1980 N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/sports/othersports/15runner.html?ex=1336881600&en=a526b1706f63d1d6&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? - New York Times An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? &#147;I don&#146;t see myself as disabled,&#148; said Oscar Pistorius, a former rugby and water polo player. &#147;There&#146;s nothing I can&#146;t do that able-bodied athletes can do.&#148; Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 15, 2007 MANCHESTER, England, May 14 — As Oscar Pistorius of South Africa crouched in the starting blocks for the 200 meters on Sunday, the small crowd turned its attention to the sprinter who calls himself the fastest man on no legs. Skip to next paragraph Do you think athletes with prosthetics should be allowed to compete with able-bodied athletes? Video: Oscar Pistorius's Victory in the T44 Men's 200 Meters Christopher Furlong/Getty Images, for The New York Times Pistorius, left, won the 200-meter race at the Paralympic World Cup. He wants to compete in the 2008 Olympics. Pistorius wants to be the first amputee runner to compete in the Olympics. But despite his ascendance, he is facing resistance from track and field’s world governing body, which is seeking to bar him on the grounds that the technology of his prosthetics may give him an unfair advantage over sprinters using their natural legs. His first strides were choppy Sunday, a necessary accommodation to sprinting on a pair of j-shaped blades made of carbon fiber and known as Cheetahs. Pistorius was born without the fibula in his lower legs and with other defects in his feet. He had both legs amputated below the knee when he was 11 months old. At 20, his coach says, he is like a five-speed engine with no second gear. Yet Pistorius is also a searing talent who has begun erasing the lines between abled and disabled, raising philosophical questions: What should an athlete look like? Where should limits be placed on technology to balance fair play with the right to compete? Would the nature of sport be altered if athletes using artificial limbs could run faster or jump higher than the best athletes using their natural limbs? Once at full speed Sunday, Pistorius handily won the 100 and 200 meters here at the Paralympic World Cup, an international competition for disabled athletes. A cold, rainy afternoon tempered his performances, but his victories came decisively and kept him aimed toward his goal of the 2008 Summer Olympics in Beijing, even though international track officials seek to block his entrance. Since March, Pistorius has delivered startling record performances for disabled athletes at 100 meters (10.91 seconds), 200 meters (21.58 seconds) and 400 meters (46.34 seconds). Those times do not meet Olympic qualifying standards for men, but the Beijing Games are still 15 months away. Already, Pistorius is fast enough that his marks would have won gold medals in equivalent women’s races at the 2004 Athens Olympics. Pistorius’s time of 46.56 in the 400 earned him a second-place finish in March against able-bodied runners at the South African national championships. This seemingly makes him a candidate for the Olympic 4x400-meter relay should South Africa qualify as one of the world’s 16 fastest teams. “I don’t see myself as disabled,” said the blond, spiky-haired Pistorius, a former rugby and water polo player who declines to park in spaces reserved for the disabled. “There’s nothing I can’t do that able-bodied athletes can do.” An Equalizer or an Edge? Still, the question persists: Do prosthetic legs simply level the playing field for Pistorius, compensating for his disability, or do they give him an inequitable edge via what some call techno-doping? Experts say there have been limited scientific studies on the biomechanics of amputee runners, especially those missing both legs. And because Pistorius lost his legs as an infant, his speed on carbon-fiber legs cannot be compared with his speed on natural legs. Track and field’s world governing body, based in Monaco and known by the initials I.A.A.F., has recently prohibited the use of technological aids like springs and wheels, disqualifying Pistorius from events that it sanctions. A final ruling is expected in August. allows governing bodies to make their own eligibility rules, though it can intervene. Since 2004, for example, transgender athletes have been allowed to compete in the Olympics. “With all due respect, we cannot accept something that provides advantages,” said Elio Locatelli of Italy, the director of development for the I.A.A.F., urging Pistorius to concentrate on the Paralympics that will follow the Olympics in Beijing. “It affects the purity of sport. Next will be another device where people can fly with something on their back.” Others have questioned the governing body’s motivation. Next Article in Sports (3 of 27) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Where Beating the Odds Is Nothing New TRACK AND FIELD; It's All in the Timing SIDELINES: A PERSONAL VICTORY; Although Disabled He's Not Unable Student Wins the Right To Race in Wheelchair Next Article in Sports (3 of 27) &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Miracle On Ice - 1980 N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/health/15cons.html?ex=1336881600&en=e28865075dcd9ed6&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Egg Donation - Infertility - Invitro Fertilization - As Demand for Donor Eggs Soars, High Prices Stir Ethical Concerns - New York Times Mental Health & Behavior As Demand for Donor Eggs Soars, High Prices Stir Ethical Concerns Sign In to E-Mail or Save This By RONI CARYN RABIN Published: May 15, 2007 Samantha Carolan was 23 and fresh out of graduate school when she decided to donate eggs to an infertile couple. Ms. Carolan concedes that she would never have done it if not for the money, $7,000 that she used to pay off some Skip to next paragraph More The Consumer Columns » She has since had a second egg extraction, for which she was paid $8,000, and she is planning a third before taking a break. “The first time, it’s frightening,” said Ms. Carolan, now 24, of Winfield Park, N.J. “It is surgery, and I don’t think I would have done it without compensation. But I had very limited pain, and it was a great experience for me. I would have done it the second time for less money or even no compensation.” Though many egg donors derive great satisfaction from knowing that they helped someone start a family, the price of eggs has soared in recent years as demand has increased, and the sizable payments raise controversy. A survey published this month in the journal Fertility and Sterility, “What Is Happening to the Price of Eggs?” found that the national average compensation for donors was $4,217. At least one center told the authors of the paper that it paid $15,000. Many centers did not respond. Though laws prohibit the sale of transplant organs, sperm donors have always received small payments, and prospective parents in the United States are allowed to compensate women for their far greater expenditure of time and energy. (Many countries, including Canada and Britain, do prohibit payments to egg donors.) The American Society for Reproductive Medicine considers compensation of $5,000 or more to “require justification” and sums exceeding $10,000 “beyond what is appropriate.” Meanwhile, advertisements recruiting students from elite universities to donate promise tens of thousands of dollars, and donor agencies have sprung up, appealing to would-be parents with online videos and photo galleries of donors. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention , 5,767 babies were born in 2003 from donor eggs; the number of actual egg donations is probably much higher, however, because the success rate is fairly low. Ethicists and some women’s health advocates worry that lucrative payments are enticing young women with credit-card debt and steep tuition bills to sell eggs without seriously evaluating the risks. “The real issue is whether the money can cloud someone’s judgment,” said Josephine Johnston, an associate for law and bioethics at the Hastings Center, a research group in Garrison, N.Y., that specializes in medical ethics. She does not oppose compensation, but she does worry about high prices. “We hear about egg donors being paid enormous amounts of money, $50,000 or $60,000,” Ms. Johnston said. “How much is that person actually giving informed consent about the medical procedure and really listening and thinking as it’s being described and its risks are explained?” Adding to the debate was a proposal by lawmakers in Maryland to ban payments for eggs. Proponents of compensation say if payments are lowered or eliminated, the supply of eggs will dwindle or dry up. “Women aren’t exactly lining up to be donors,” said Dr. Mark Sauer, director of the Center for Women’s Reproductive Care at the Columbia University Medical Center . “There are a lot more recipients than donors.” Part of the problem is that the risks of donation have not been thoroughly studied. Although the consensus among most reproductive endocrinologists is that extraction is safe, five deaths have been reported in Britain. There are enough unanswered questions that researchers have promised not to pay for eggs. “One of the most striking facts about in vitro fertilization is just how little is known with certainty about the long-term health outcomes for the women who undergo the procedure,” a recent report by the The 2005 guidelines of the National Academy of Sciences for human embryonic stem cell research discourage paying for eggs for research. The California Institute for Regenerative Medicine reimburses women only for out-of-pocket expenses like lost wages or cab fare. “As a public agency, we felt we shouldn’t be putting money on the table that might induce someone to take a risk,” said Geoffrey Lomax, senior officer for medical and ethical standards at the institute. So far, women have not come forward to give away eggs for research. “I just completed an outreach initiative to 21 institutions across the state that we’ve funded,” Dr. Lomax said. “No one has had an egg donated specifically for research.” The reluctance is understandable. The process of egg extraction is time consuming, and it is not comfortable. For some women, it can be painful. A woman first has to take medications to stop her menstrual cycle and then daily hormone injections for several weeks to stimulate her ovaries to produce a crop of mature eggs at once. The drugs may cause bloating, weight gain, moodiness and irritability, and there is a risk of a rare condition called ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome that can cause life-threatening complications, blood clots and kidney failure. The egg extraction itself is a surgical procedure in which a thin needle is inserted through the vagina into the ovary to retrieve the eggs and liquid from the follicles. Risks include adverse responses to , infection, bleeding or the inadvertent puncture of an organ. It is the long-term risks, both physical and psychological, that are harder to assess. Questions have been raised about whether extraction may jeopardize the donor’s fertility, and critics worry about the potential psychological harm to a donor of eggs as a young woman who later finds that she is unable to have children. And since egg donors go through much the same process as women trying to conceive in vitro, there are concerns that they may be prone to the higher rates of certain cancers that some studies have found among infertility patients. Still, said Dr. James A. Grifo, director of the division of reproductive endocrinology at the New York University School of Medicine, “There is no credible evidence of long-lasting effects or health consequences down the line.” That does not necessarily mean that the procedures are safe. “There’s no health-outcome data collected by anybody other than some voluntary reporting, and there’s no postmarket testing on how these drugs are being used,” said Susan Berke Fogel, co-founder of the Pro-Choice Alliance for Responsible Research, a project of the Public Health Institute in Oakland, Calif. In a recent article in The New England Journal of Medicine, a Harvard Business School professor said the controversy over the price of eggs was obscuring questions of women’s health. The author, Debora L. Spar, an economist who wrote “The Baby Business” last year, calls for more studies of the drugs being used, more long-term follow-up of donors and federal regulations to ensure proper informed consent. When Ms. Carolan went to donate, the short-term risks were described to her in detail, but she said she did not recall any mention of possible long-term risks. Her family opposed her decision because they worried about her health, she said, and her friends did not understand. “They all think I’m crazy,” she said. “If the topic comes up, and I tell friends I’ve done it, they’re like: ‘Why? Oh my God, aren’t you afraid you have a baby out there?’ They’re so stunned and shocked.” Then she tells them how much she was paid. “And then they go, ‘O.K., I understand now, that’s cool,’ ” she said. “People understand the money.” Next Article in Health (2 of 8) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Study of Mice Reproduction Discovers Egg Regeneration Thawed Ovary Tissue Yields Healthy Embryo Studies Aim to Preserve Fertility of Women in Chemotherapy Ballerina's Ovarian Tissue Transplant Gives Hope to Other Young Women Facing Infertility Next Article in Health (2 of 8) &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » Everything you need to know about heart disease Hip resurfacing: is it right for you? The changing attitudes towards "chemo brain" Treating the awkward years N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/health/15cons.html?ex=1336881600&en=e28865075dcd9ed6&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Egg Donation - Infertility - Invitro Fertilization - As Demand for Donor Eggs Soars, High Prices Stir Ethical Concerns - New York Times Mental Health & Behavior As Demand for Donor Eggs Soars, High Prices Stir Ethical Concerns Sign In to E-Mail or Save This By RONI CARYN RABIN Published: May 15, 2007 Samantha Carolan was 23 and fresh out of graduate school when she decided to donate eggs to an infertile couple. Ms. Carolan concedes that she would never have done it if not for the money, $7,000 that she used to pay off some Skip to next paragraph More The Consumer Columns » She has since had a second egg extraction, for which she was paid $8,000, and she is planning a third before taking a break. “The first time, it’s frightening,” said Ms. Carolan, now 24, of Winfield Park, N.J. “It is surgery, and I don’t think I would have done it without compensation. But I had very limited pain, and it was a great experience for me. I would have done it the second time for less money or even no compensation.” Though many egg donors derive great satisfaction from knowing that they helped someone start a family, the price of eggs has soared in recent years as demand has increased, and the sizable payments raise controversy. A survey published this month in the journal Fertility and Sterility, “What Is Happening to the Price of Eggs?” found that the national average compensation for donors was $4,217. At least one center told the authors of the paper that it paid $15,000. Many centers did not respond. Though laws prohibit the sale of transplant organs, sperm donors have always received small payments, and prospective parents in the United States are allowed to compensate women for their far greater expenditure of time and energy. (Many countries, including Canada and Britain, do prohibit payments to egg donors.) The American Society for Reproductive Medicine considers compensation of $5,000 or more to “require justification” and sums exceeding $10,000 “beyond what is appropriate.” Meanwhile, advertisements recruiting students from elite universities to donate promise tens of thousands of dollars, and donor agencies have sprung up, appealing to would-be parents with online videos and photo galleries of donors. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention , 5,767 babies were born in 2003 from donor eggs; the number of actual egg donations is probably much higher, however, because the success rate is fairly low. Ethicists and some women’s health advocates worry that lucrative payments are enticing young women with credit-card debt and steep tuition bills to sell eggs without seriously evaluating the risks. “The real issue is whether the money can cloud someone’s judgment,” said Josephine Johnston, an associate for law and bioethics at the Hastings Center, a research group in Garrison, N.Y., that specializes in medical ethics. She does not oppose compensation, but she does worry about high prices. “We hear about egg donors being paid enormous amounts of money, $50,000 or $60,000,” Ms. Johnston said. “How much is that person actually giving informed consent about the medical procedure and really listening and thinking as it’s being described and its risks are explained?” Adding to the debate was a proposal by lawmakers in Maryland to ban payments for eggs. Proponents of compensation say if payments are lowered or eliminated, the supply of eggs will dwindle or dry up. “Women aren’t exactly lining up to be donors,” said Dr. Mark Sauer, director of the Center for Women’s Reproductive Care at the Columbia University Medical Center . “There are a lot more recipients than donors.” Part of the problem is that the risks of donation have not been thoroughly studied. Although the consensus among most reproductive endocrinologists is that extraction is safe, five deaths have been reported in Britain. There are enough unanswered questions that researchers have promised not to pay for eggs. “One of the most striking facts about in vitro fertilization is just how little is known with certainty about the long-term health outcomes for the women who undergo the procedure,” a recent report by the The 2005 guidelines of the National Academy of Sciences for human embryonic stem cell research discourage paying for eggs for research. The California Institute for Regenerative Medicine reimburses women only for out-of-pocket expenses like lost wages or cab fare. “As a public agency, we felt we shouldn’t be putting money on the table that might induce someone to take a risk,” said Geoffrey Lomax, senior officer for medical and ethical standards at the institute. So far, women have not come forward to give away eggs for research. “I just completed an outreach initiative to 21 institutions across the state that we’ve funded,” Dr. Lomax said. “No one has had an egg donated specifically for research.” The reluctance is understandable. The process of egg extraction is time consuming, and it is not comfortable. For some women, it can be painful. A woman first has to take medications to stop her menstrual cycle and then daily hormone injections for several weeks to stimulate her ovaries to produce a crop of mature eggs at once. The drugs may cause bloating, weight gain, moodiness and irritability, and there is a risk of a rare condition called ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome that can cause life-threatening complications, blood clots and kidney failure. The egg extraction itself is a surgical procedure in which a thin needle is inserted through the vagina into the ovary to retrieve the eggs and liquid from the follicles. Risks include adverse responses to , infection, bleeding or the inadvertent puncture of an organ. It is the long-term risks, both physical and psychological, that are harder to assess. Questions have been raised about whether extraction may jeopardize the donor’s fertility, and critics worry about the potential psychological harm to a donor of eggs as a young woman who later finds that she is unable to have children. And since egg donors go through much the same process as women trying to conceive in vitro, there are concerns that they may be prone to the higher rates of certain cancers that some studies have found among infertility patients. Still, said Dr. James A. Grifo, director of the division of reproductive endocrinology at the New York University School of Medicine, “There is no credible evidence of long-lasting effects or health consequences down the line.” That does not necessarily mean that the procedures are safe. “There’s no health-outcome data collected by anybody other than some voluntary reporting, and there’s no postmarket testing on how these drugs are being used,” said Susan Berke Fogel, co-founder of the Pro-Choice Alliance for Responsible Research, a project of the Public Health Institute in Oakland, Calif. In a recent article in The New England Journal of Medicine, a Harvard Business School professor said the controversy over the price of eggs was obscuring questions of women’s health. The author, Debora L. Spar, an economist who wrote “The Baby Business” last year, calls for more studies of the drugs being used, more long-term follow-up of donors and federal regulations to ensure proper informed consent. When Ms. Carolan went to donate, the short-term risks were described to her in detail, but she said she did not recall any mention of possible long-term risks. Her family opposed her decision because they worried about her health, she said, and her friends did not understand. “They all think I’m crazy,” she said. “If the topic comes up, and I tell friends I’ve done it, they’re like: ‘Why? Oh my God, aren’t you afraid you have a baby out there?’ They’re so stunned and shocked.” Then she tells them how much she was paid. “And then they go, ‘O.K., I understand now, that’s cool,’ ” she said. “People understand the money.” Next Article in Health (2 of 8) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Study of Mice Reproduction Discovers Egg Regeneration Thawed Ovary Tissue Yields Healthy Embryo Studies Aim to Preserve Fertility of Women in Chemotherapy Ballerina's Ovarian Tissue Transplant Gives Hope to Other Young Women Facing Infertility Next Article in Health (2 of 8) &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » Everything you need to know about heart disease Hip resurfacing: is it right for you? The changing attitudes towards "chemo brain" Treating the awkward years N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/sports/othersports/15runner.html	An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? - New York Times An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? &#147;I don&#146;t see myself as disabled,&#148; said Oscar Pistorius, a former rugby and water polo player. &#147;There&#146;s nothing I can&#146;t do that able-bodied athletes can do.&#148; Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 15, 2007 MANCHESTER, England, May 14 — As Oscar Pistorius of South Africa crouched in the starting blocks for the 200 meters on Sunday, the small crowd turned its attention to the sprinter who calls himself the fastest man on no legs. Skip to next paragraph Do you think athletes with prosthetics should be allowed to compete with able-bodied athletes? Video: Oscar Pistorius's Victory in the T44 Men's 200 Meters Christopher Furlong/Getty Images, for The New York Times Pistorius, left, won the 200-meter race at the Paralympic World Cup. He wants to compete in the 2008 Olympics. Pistorius wants to be the first amputee runner to compete in the Olympics. But despite his ascendance, he is facing resistance from track and field’s world governing body, which is seeking to bar him on the grounds that the technology of his prosthetics may give him an unfair advantage over sprinters using their natural legs. His first strides were choppy Sunday, a necessary accommodation to sprinting on a pair of j-shaped blades made of carbon fiber and known as Cheetahs. Pistorius was born without the fibula in his lower legs and with other defects in his feet. He had both legs amputated below the knee when he was 11 months old. At 20, his coach says, he is like a five-speed engine with no second gear. Yet Pistorius is also a searing talent who has begun erasing the lines between abled and disabled, raising philosophical questions: What should an athlete look like? Where should limits be placed on technology to balance fair play with the right to compete? Would the nature of sport be altered if athletes using artificial limbs could run faster or jump higher than the best athletes using their natural limbs? Once at full speed Sunday, Pistorius handily won the 100 and 200 meters here at the Paralympic World Cup, an international competition for disabled athletes. A cold, rainy afternoon tempered his performances, but his victories came decisively and kept him aimed toward his goal of the 2008 Summer Olympics in Beijing, even though international track officials seek to block his entrance. Since March, Pistorius has delivered startling record performances for disabled athletes at 100 meters (10.91 seconds), 200 meters (21.58 seconds) and 400 meters (46.34 seconds). Those times do not meet Olympic qualifying standards for men, but the Beijing Games are still 15 months away. Already, Pistorius is fast enough that his marks would have won gold medals in equivalent women’s races at the 2004 Athens Olympics. Pistorius’s time of 46.56 in the 400 earned him a second-place finish in March against able-bodied runners at the South African national championships. This seemingly makes him a candidate for the Olympic 4x400-meter relay should South Africa qualify as one of the world’s 16 fastest teams. “I don’t see myself as disabled,” said the blond, spiky-haired Pistorius, a former rugby and water polo player who declines to park in spaces reserved for the disabled. “There’s nothing I can’t do that able-bodied athletes can do.” An Equalizer or an Edge? Still, the question persists: Do prosthetic legs simply level the playing field for Pistorius, compensating for his disability, or do they give him an inequitable edge via what some call techno-doping? Experts say there have been limited scientific studies on the biomechanics of amputee runners, especially those missing both legs. And because Pistorius lost his legs as an infant, his speed on carbon-fiber legs cannot be compared with his speed on natural legs. Track and field’s world governing body, based in Monaco and known by the initials I.A.A.F., has recently prohibited the use of technological aids like springs and wheels, disqualifying Pistorius from events that it sanctions. A final ruling is expected in August. allows governing bodies to make their own eligibility rules, though it can intervene. Since 2004, for example, transgender athletes have been allowed to compete in the Olympics. “With all due respect, we cannot accept something that provides advantages,” said Elio Locatelli of Italy, the director of development for the I.A.A.F., urging Pistorius to concentrate on the Paralympics that will follow the Olympics in Beijing. “It affects the purity of sport. Next will be another device where people can fly with something on their back.” Others have questioned the governing body’s motivation. Next Article in Sports (3 of 27) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Where Beating the Odds Is Nothing New TRACK AND FIELD; It's All in the Timing SIDELINES: A PERSONAL VICTORY; Although Disabled He's Not Unable Student Wins the Right To Race in Wheelchair Next Article in Sports (3 of 27) &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Miracle On Ice - 1980 N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/sports/othersports/15runner.html	An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? - New York Times An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? &#147;I don&#146;t see myself as disabled,&#148; said Oscar Pistorius, a former rugby and water polo player. &#147;There&#146;s nothing I can&#146;t do that able-bodied athletes can do.&#148; Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 15, 2007 MANCHESTER, England, May 14 — As Oscar Pistorius of South Africa crouched in the starting blocks for the 200 meters on Sunday, the small crowd turned its attention to the sprinter who calls himself the fastest man on no legs. Skip to next paragraph Do you think athletes with prosthetics should be allowed to compete with able-bodied athletes? Video: Oscar Pistorius's Victory in the T44 Men's 200 Meters Christopher Furlong/Getty Images, for The New York Times Pistorius, left, won the 200-meter race at the Paralympic World Cup. He wants to compete in the 2008 Olympics. Pistorius wants to be the first amputee runner to compete in the Olympics. But despite his ascendance, he is facing resistance from track and field’s world governing body, which is seeking to bar him on the grounds that the technology of his prosthetics may give him an unfair advantage over sprinters using their natural legs. His first strides were choppy Sunday, a necessary accommodation to sprinting on a pair of j-shaped blades made of carbon fiber and known as Cheetahs. Pistorius was born without the fibula in his lower legs and with other defects in his feet. He had both legs amputated below the knee when he was 11 months old. At 20, his coach says, he is like a five-speed engine with no second gear. Yet Pistorius is also a searing talent who has begun erasing the lines between abled and disabled, raising philosophical questions: What should an athlete look like? Where should limits be placed on technology to balance fair play with the right to compete? Would the nature of sport be altered if athletes using artificial limbs could run faster or jump higher than the best athletes using their natural limbs? Once at full speed Sunday, Pistorius handily won the 100 and 200 meters here at the Paralympic World Cup, an international competition for disabled athletes. A cold, rainy afternoon tempered his performances, but his victories came decisively and kept him aimed toward his goal of the 2008 Summer Olympics in Beijing, even though international track officials seek to block his entrance. Since March, Pistorius has delivered startling record performances for disabled athletes at 100 meters (10.91 seconds), 200 meters (21.58 seconds) and 400 meters (46.34 seconds). Those times do not meet Olympic qualifying standards for men, but the Beijing Games are still 15 months away. Already, Pistorius is fast enough that his marks would have won gold medals in equivalent women’s races at the 2004 Athens Olympics. Pistorius’s time of 46.56 in the 400 earned him a second-place finish in March against able-bodied runners at the South African national championships. This seemingly makes him a candidate for the Olympic 4x400-meter relay should South Africa qualify as one of the world’s 16 fastest teams. “I don’t see myself as disabled,” said the blond, spiky-haired Pistorius, a former rugby and water polo player who declines to park in spaces reserved for the disabled. “There’s nothing I can’t do that able-bodied athletes can do.” An Equalizer or an Edge? Still, the question persists: Do prosthetic legs simply level the playing field for Pistorius, compensating for his disability, or do they give him an inequitable edge via what some call techno-doping? Experts say there have been limited scientific studies on the biomechanics of amputee runners, especially those missing both legs. And because Pistorius lost his legs as an infant, his speed on carbon-fiber legs cannot be compared with his speed on natural legs. Track and field’s world governing body, based in Monaco and known by the initials I.A.A.F., has recently prohibited the use of technological aids like springs and wheels, disqualifying Pistorius from events that it sanctions. A final ruling is expected in August. allows governing bodies to make their own eligibility rules, though it can intervene. Since 2004, for example, transgender athletes have been allowed to compete in the Olympics. “With all due respect, we cannot accept something that provides advantages,” said Elio Locatelli of Italy, the director of development for the I.A.A.F., urging Pistorius to concentrate on the Paralympics that will follow the Olympics in Beijing. “It affects the purity of sport. Next will be another device where people can fly with something on their back.” Others have questioned the governing body’s motivation. Next Article in Sports (3 of 27) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Where Beating the Odds Is Nothing New TRACK AND FIELD; It's All in the Timing SIDELINES: A PERSONAL VICTORY; Although Disabled He's Not Unable Student Wins the Right To Race in Wheelchair Next Article in Sports (3 of 27) &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Miracle On Ice - 1980 N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/health/15brod.html?ex=1336881600&en=a245fcdd23d0d5ae&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Cervical Cancer Vaccine - HPV - Jane Brody - New York Times Mental Health & Behavior HPV Vaccine: Few Risks, Many Benefits Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 15, 2007 What is it that some parents don’t understand about the HPV vaccine, licensed last summer in hopes of preventing most cases of genital warts and cervical Skip to next paragraph , or HPV, are the most common ¶That there is no treatment for HPV infections? ¶That cervical cancer is the most serious sexually transmitted disease caused by this virus? ¶That 70 percent of cases of cervical cancer arise because of two variants of the virus that the new vaccine protects against? ¶ That 90 percent of genital warts cases are caused by two other variants of the virus that are countered by the vaccine? ¶That most people infected with HPV do not know it, yet can transmit the virus to an unsuspecting sexual partner? ¶That 20 percent of American girls 14 to 19 are infected, and the vaccine works only if administered before women contract the viral variants it is intended to prevent? Despite these facts, the vaccine, sold by Merck as Gardasil, has been mired in controversy, and many parents remain wary about using it for the girls and young women it was meant to protect. Are the Objections Valid? One commonly voiced thought is that immunizing young girls against HPV will encourage promiscuity and that the message to these youngsters should be abstinence before marriage and monogamy after. But the abstinence message is rarely effective. Half of all girls become sexually active before graduating from high school. For some girls and women, sexual behavior occurs against their will, through rape, incest and date rape. Why would this vaccine give girls license to be sexually indulgent? It protects against only one sexually transmitted problem, and there are so many others, including and, of course, unwanted Another concern involves long-term safety. How do we know this vaccine will not eventually cause other problems like autoimmune or neurological disorders or lose its protective powers or foster the dominance of other HPV variants? Actually, we don’t. But we do have at least five years of safety data that include no hints of long-term risks or waning effectiveness. But if the vaccine should begin to lose potency over time, that could easily be remedied by a booster shot. In response to suggestions of mandatory HPV for all girls entering high school, opponents have objected to “forcing” therapy on healthy girls under the presumption that future behavior might result in a disease. This is exactly the principle on which every form of immunization is based. Not everyone contracted before the advent of mandatory vaccines to protect every child. We vaccinate the masses, causing herd immunity, to protect the relatively few who would otherwise become ill and suffer devastating consequences. Finally, objections have been raised about costs. This vaccine is not cheap. Each dose costs $120, or $360 for the three doses needed for full protection, far more than any other commonly used vaccine. If a booster shot is needed later, that could mean another $120. If the vaccine is made mandatory, states might have to pay for immunizing girls not covered by insurance. Still, HPV infections are far more costly. As noted in the March issue of The American Journal of Obstetrics and Gynecology: “The annual burden of cervical HPV-related disease ranges from $2.25 billion to $4.6 billion in the United States. The annual burden of cervical cancer ranges from $181.5 million to $363 million.” This is not to mention the physical and emotional costs of cervical cancer to affected women, most of whom can no longer have children and some of whom die of the disease. An estimated 20 million Americans are infected with HPV, and 6.2 percent of girls 15 to 19 become infected each year. All told, more than six million new HPV infections occur annually, 74 percent of them in people 15 to 24. Human papillomaviruses are ubiquitous, and HPV infections are more the norm than the exception. At least half of sexually active men and women acquire genital HPV infections at some point in their lives. A recent estimate suggests that by age 50, 80 percent of women will have acquired genital HPV. Not all HPV infections would be prevented by the new vaccine. There are about 30 variants of the virus that commonly infect men and women. Although the vaccine prevents only four, these four are critically important, because they account for vast majorities of cases of both genital warts and cervical cancer. Still, because 30 percent of cervical cancers are because of HPV variants not included in the vaccine, even if a woman is fully immunized, she still needs regular Pap smears. Next Article in Health (3 of 8) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. In New Hampshire, Soft Sell Eases Vaccine Fears SECOND OPINION; A Vital Discussion, Clouded Texas Is First To Require Cancer Shots For Schoolgirls Human Papilloma Virus (HPV) Next Article in Health (3 of 8) &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » Everything you need to know about heart disease Hip resurfacing: is it right for you? The changing attitudes towards "chemo brain" Treating the awkward years N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/health/15brod.html?ex=1336881600&en=a245fcdd23d0d5ae&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Cervical Cancer Vaccine - HPV - Jane Brody - New York Times Mental Health & Behavior HPV Vaccine: Few Risks, Many Benefits Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 15, 2007 What is it that some parents don’t understand about the HPV vaccine, licensed last summer in hopes of preventing most cases of genital warts and cervical Skip to next paragraph , or HPV, are the most common ¶That there is no treatment for HPV infections? ¶That cervical cancer is the most serious sexually transmitted disease caused by this virus? ¶That 70 percent of cases of cervical cancer arise because of two variants of the virus that the new vaccine protects against? ¶ That 90 percent of genital warts cases are caused by two other variants of the virus that are countered by the vaccine? ¶That most people infected with HPV do not know it, yet can transmit the virus to an unsuspecting sexual partner? ¶That 20 percent of American girls 14 to 19 are infected, and the vaccine works only if administered before women contract the viral variants it is intended to prevent? Despite these facts, the vaccine, sold by Merck as Gardasil, has been mired in controversy, and many parents remain wary about using it for the girls and young women it was meant to protect. Are the Objections Valid? One commonly voiced thought is that immunizing young girls against HPV will encourage promiscuity and that the message to these youngsters should be abstinence before marriage and monogamy after. But the abstinence message is rarely effective. Half of all girls become sexually active before graduating from high school. For some girls and women, sexual behavior occurs against their will, through rape, incest and date rape. Why would this vaccine give girls license to be sexually indulgent? It protects against only one sexually transmitted problem, and there are so many others, including and, of course, unwanted Another concern involves long-term safety. How do we know this vaccine will not eventually cause other problems like autoimmune or neurological disorders or lose its protective powers or foster the dominance of other HPV variants? Actually, we don’t. But we do have at least five years of safety data that include no hints of long-term risks or waning effectiveness. But if the vaccine should begin to lose potency over time, that could easily be remedied by a booster shot. In response to suggestions of mandatory HPV for all girls entering high school, opponents have objected to “forcing” therapy on healthy girls under the presumption that future behavior might result in a disease. This is exactly the principle on which every form of immunization is based. Not everyone contracted before the advent of mandatory vaccines to protect every child. We vaccinate the masses, causing herd immunity, to protect the relatively few who would otherwise become ill and suffer devastating consequences. Finally, objections have been raised about costs. This vaccine is not cheap. Each dose costs $120, or $360 for the three doses needed for full protection, far more than any other commonly used vaccine. If a booster shot is needed later, that could mean another $120. If the vaccine is made mandatory, states might have to pay for immunizing girls not covered by insurance. Still, HPV infections are far more costly. As noted in the March issue of The American Journal of Obstetrics and Gynecology: “The annual burden of cervical HPV-related disease ranges from $2.25 billion to $4.6 billion in the United States. The annual burden of cervical cancer ranges from $181.5 million to $363 million.” This is not to mention the physical and emotional costs of cervical cancer to affected women, most of whom can no longer have children and some of whom die of the disease. An estimated 20 million Americans are infected with HPV, and 6.2 percent of girls 15 to 19 become infected each year. All told, more than six million new HPV infections occur annually, 74 percent of them in people 15 to 24. Human papillomaviruses are ubiquitous, and HPV infections are more the norm than the exception. At least half of sexually active men and women acquire genital HPV infections at some point in their lives. A recent estimate suggests that by age 50, 80 percent of women will have acquired genital HPV. Not all HPV infections would be prevented by the new vaccine. There are about 30 variants of the virus that commonly infect men and women. Although the vaccine prevents only four, these four are critically important, because they account for vast majorities of cases of both genital warts and cervical cancer. Still, because 30 percent of cervical cancers are because of HPV variants not included in the vaccine, even if a woman is fully immunized, she still needs regular Pap smears. Next Article in Health (3 of 8) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. In New Hampshire, Soft Sell Eases Vaccine Fears SECOND OPINION; A Vital Discussion, Clouded Texas Is First To Require Cancer Shots For Schoolgirls Human Papilloma Virus (HPV) Next Article in Health (3 of 8) &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » Everything you need to know about heart disease Hip resurfacing: is it right for you? The changing attitudes towards "chemo brain" Treating the awkward years N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/pages/health/index.html?partner=rssnyt	Health News - New York Times Mental Health & Behavior Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession By ABIGAIL ZUGER, M.D. Some doctors turned writers want to dispel the notion of medical magic, some offer social critique and some should keep their day jobs. As Demand for Donor Eggs Soars, High Prices Stir Ethical Concerns By RONI CARYN RABIN Many egg donors derive great satisfaction from knowing that they helped someone start a family, but sizable payments are raising controversy. More The Consumer Columns » Oklahoma Chides Insurer in Medicare Marketing Case Some agents for Humana have enrolled Medicare recipients in products that “they did not understand and did not want,” an official said. An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Some are questioning whether Oscar Pistorius’s prosthetic legs give him an unfair advantage over other sprinters. Q & A : Two Kinds of Oxygen Vital Signs: Patterns: Moderate Drinking May Ease Effects of ‘Bad’ Cholesterol Vital Signs: Nutrition: A Cardiovascular Argument for Eating Whole Grains Obama Says He’d Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest In Corzine’s Recovery, Doctors Cite Grit and Luck Westchester to Pay Woman in False TB Scare John K. Lattimer, Urologist of Varied Expertise, Dies at 92 In New Hampshire, Soft Sell Eases Vaccine Fears Doctor Grafted Skin to Aid Drug Dealers, U.S. Authorities Say Electric Pulses, Instead of Shocks, Can Help Heart Patients Some parents of children with Down syndrome want prospective parents to know the positive side of raising a child with the genetic condition. : Going Against the Flow A birth control pill designed to eliminate the monthly period may hit the market soon. : Choosing Hip Resurfacing Keith McDonald underwent hip resurfacing surgery, a newer alternative to total hip replacement. Dairy Council to End Ad Campaign That Linked Drinking Milk With Weight Loss The Yoga Therapist Will See You Now Passage of Drug Safety Bill Was Common Goal for Two Very Different Senators Senate Approves Tighter Policing of Drug Makers MENTAL HEALTH & BEHAVIOR» Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry’s Role Study Suggests Meditation Can Help Train Attention HPV Vaccine: Few Risks, Many Benefits By JANE E. BRODY Many parents remain wary about using the HPV vaccine for the girls and young women it was meant to protect. The Claim: Darker Skin Protects Against Skin Cancer People with darker skin get deeper tans and burn less quickly than other people, but does that mean better protection against skin cancer? Jane Brody, "Personal Health" columnist, discusses the latest health news. Genetic Testing + Abortion = ??? The right to choose, and the right to screen for sex, cancer genes or smarts. A user's guide to diagnostic tests. What you need to know about procedures and diagnoses for six major diseases. Go to Special Section » News from AP &#x00bb; Study: Vitamins Tied to Prostate Cancer Blood Pressure Rising Around the Globe Boy Receives New Heart at Ark. Hospital Researchers Examine Crystal Meth Effects Blood Pressure Rising Around the Globe FDA: FluMist Effective for Kids Under 5 Browse All Health Topics Select a Health Topic Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS) Dietary Supplements and Herbal Remedies Food Contamination and Poisoning Human Papilloma Virus (HPV) Mental Health and Disorders Post Traumatic Stress Disorder SARS (Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome) Seasonal Affective Disorder (SAD) Sexually Transmitted Diseases (STDs) Sudden Infant Death Syndrome Suicides and Suicide Attempts Health & Fitness Tools What's your score? » Calorie Calculator for Goal Weight What's your limit? » MOST POPULAR - HEALTH Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Vital Signs: Nutrition: A Cardiovascular Argument for Eating Whole Grains The Consumer: As Demand for Donor Eggs Soars, High Prices Stir Ethical Concerns Personal Health: HPV Vaccine: Few Risks, Many Benefits Vital Signs: Patterns: Moderate Drinking May Ease Effects of &#8216;Bad&#8217; Cholesterol Really?: The Claim: Darker Skin Protects Against Skin Cancer Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role Study Suggests Meditation Can Help Train Attention Jury Is Still Out on Gluten, the Latest Dietary Villain Go to Complete List » Psychiatrists, Troubled Children and Drug Industry's Role In New Hampshire, Soft Sell Eases Vaccine Fears Patterns: Moderate Drinking May Ease Effects of â€˜Bad' Cholesterol Electric Pulses, Instead of Shocks, Can Help Heart Patients Go to Complete List » Everything you need to know about heart disease Hip resurfacing: is it right for you? The changing attitudes towards "chemo brain" Treating the awkward years Miracle On Ice - 1980 What’s new on Broadway? Start your 30-day free trial of Times Reader today. Browse movie reviews from 1913. Photos, fine art, books and more. Be Prepared. For Your Major Purchase. Buy, sell or rent a home. The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/pages/health/index.html?partner=rssnyt	Health News - New York Times Mental Health & Behavior Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession By ABIGAIL ZUGER, M.D. Some doctors turned writers want to dispel the notion of medical magic, some offer social critique and some should keep their day jobs. As Demand for Donor Eggs Soars, High Prices Stir Ethical Concerns By RONI CARYN RABIN Many egg donors derive great satisfaction from knowing that they helped someone start a family, but sizable payments are raising controversy. More The Consumer Columns » Oklahoma Chides Insurer in Medicare Marketing Case Some agents for Humana have enrolled Medicare recipients in products that “they did not understand and did not want,” an official said. An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Some are questioning whether Oscar Pistorius’s prosthetic legs give him an unfair advantage over other sprinters. Q & A : Two Kinds of Oxygen Vital Signs: Patterns: Moderate Drinking May Ease Effects of ‘Bad’ Cholesterol Vital Signs: Nutrition: A Cardiovascular Argument for Eating Whole Grains Obama Says He’d Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest In Corzine’s Recovery, Doctors Cite Grit and Luck Westchester to Pay Woman in False TB Scare John K. Lattimer, Urologist of Varied Expertise, Dies at 92 In New Hampshire, Soft Sell Eases Vaccine Fears Doctor Grafted Skin to Aid Drug Dealers, U.S. Authorities Say Electric Pulses, Instead of Shocks, Can Help Heart Patients Some parents of children with Down syndrome want prospective parents to know the positive side of raising a child with the genetic condition. : Going Against the Flow A birth control pill designed to eliminate the monthly period may hit the market soon. : Choosing Hip Resurfacing Keith McDonald underwent hip resurfacing surgery, a newer alternative to total hip replacement. Dairy Council to End Ad Campaign That Linked Drinking Milk With Weight Loss The Yoga Therapist Will See You Now Passage of Drug Safety Bill Was Common Goal for Two Very Different Senators Senate Approves Tighter Policing of Drug Makers MENTAL HEALTH & BEHAVIOR» Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry’s Role Study Suggests Meditation Can Help Train Attention HPV Vaccine: Few Risks, Many Benefits By JANE E. BRODY Many parents remain wary about using the HPV vaccine for the girls and young women it was meant to protect. The Claim: Darker Skin Protects Against Skin Cancer People with darker skin get deeper tans and burn less quickly than other people, but does that mean better protection against skin cancer? Jane Brody, "Personal Health" columnist, discusses the latest health news. Genetic Testing + Abortion = ??? The right to choose, and the right to screen for sex, cancer genes or smarts. A user's guide to diagnostic tests. What you need to know about procedures and diagnoses for six major diseases. Go to Special Section » News from AP &#x00bb; Study: Vitamins Tied to Prostate Cancer Blood Pressure Rising Around the Globe Boy Receives New Heart at Ark. Hospital Researchers Examine Crystal Meth Effects Blood Pressure Rising Around the Globe FDA: FluMist Effective for Kids Under 5 Browse All Health Topics Select a Health Topic Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS) Dietary Supplements and Herbal Remedies Food Contamination and Poisoning Human Papilloma Virus (HPV) Mental Health and Disorders Post Traumatic Stress Disorder SARS (Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome) Seasonal Affective Disorder (SAD) Sexually Transmitted Diseases (STDs) Sudden Infant Death Syndrome Suicides and Suicide Attempts Health & Fitness Tools What's your score? » Calorie Calculator for Goal Weight What's your limit? » MOST POPULAR - HEALTH Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Vital Signs: Nutrition: A Cardiovascular Argument for Eating Whole Grains The Consumer: As Demand for Donor Eggs Soars, High Prices Stir Ethical Concerns Personal Health: HPV Vaccine: Few Risks, Many Benefits Vital Signs: Patterns: Moderate Drinking May Ease Effects of &#8216;Bad&#8217; Cholesterol Really?: The Claim: Darker Skin Protects Against Skin Cancer Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role Study Suggests Meditation Can Help Train Attention Jury Is Still Out on Gluten, the Latest Dietary Villain Go to Complete List » Psychiatrists, Troubled Children and Drug Industry's Role In New Hampshire, Soft Sell Eases Vaccine Fears Patterns: Moderate Drinking May Ease Effects of â€˜Bad' Cholesterol Electric Pulses, Instead of Shocks, Can Help Heart Patients Go to Complete List » Everything you need to know about heart disease Hip resurfacing: is it right for you? The changing attitudes towards "chemo brain" Treating the awkward years Miracle On Ice - 1980 What’s new on Broadway? Start your 30-day free trial of Times Reader today. Browse movie reviews from 1913. Photos, fine art, books and more. Be Prepared. For Your Major Purchase. Buy, sell or rent a home. The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/health/15book.html	Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession - New York Times Mental Health & Behavior Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Sign In to E-Mail or Save This By ABIGAIL ZUGER, M.D. Published: May 15, 2007 Like the racket of dozens of birds on a clothesline, the sound of doctors is filling the air. Skip to next paragraph Top, Erik Jacobs for The New York Times; above, C.J. Gunther for The New York Times; Dr. Jerome Groopman, above, and Dr. Atul Gawande, top, are both clinicians at Harvard and write for The New Yorker. Some of the books discussed in this article: JOHN E. CASTALDO AND LAWRENCE P. LEVITT "The Man With the Iron Tattoo and Other True Tales of Uncommon Wisdom: What Our Patients Have Taught Us About Love, Faith and Healing" (Benbella Books, $20). "Better: A Surgeon's Notes on Performance" (Metropolitan, $24). "The Corrosion of Medicine: Can the Profession Reclaim Its Moral Legacy?" (Common Courage Press, $17.95). "How Doctors Think" (Houghton Mifflin, $26). "The Medical Detectives" (Plume, $16) and "The Man Who Grew Two Breasts" (Plume, $10.95). "M.D.: A Four-Year Journey Through Medical School" (iUniverse Inc., $13.95). "Galileo's Gout: Science in an Age of Endarkenment" (Bellevue Literary Press, $25). The strongest voices at the moment belong to Dr. Jerome Groopman and Dr. Atul Gawande, both clinicians at Harvard and writers for The New Yorker, both with articulate new books garnering impressive reviews and climbing in parallel to best-sellerdom. But they are only two of many doctors holding forth these days, in escalating volume. The last six months alone have seen the publication of a half-dozen volumes of memoir and opinion by doctors at every stage of professional life, from newbie (“M.D.: A Four-Year Journey Through Medical School” by Shani Stein-Ratzker) to emeritus (“Galileo’s Gout: Science in an Age of Endarkenment” by Gerald Weissmann). Some books promise to educate and inspire (“The Man With the Iron Tattoo and Other True Tales of Uncommon Wisdom: What Our Patients Have Taught Us About Love, Faith and Healing,” by John E. Castaldo and Lawrence P. Levitt). Some books promise social critique instead (“The Corrosion of Medicine: Can the Profession Reclaim Its Moral Legacy?” by John Geyman, due out at the end of the month). Doctors are also filling up newspaper columns (like this one), blogging, submitting work to literary journals and signing up for courses designed to help them break into print. It all prompts the same questions as a sudden swooping, squawking murmuration of starlings: where are they all coming from? And what in the world are they trying to say? Some listeners hear a set of new variations on very old songs. “Doctors are storytellers,” said Kathryn Montgomery, a professor of literature who directs the medical humanities and bioethics program at ’s Feinberg School of Medicine in Chicago. “They spend all day long listening to stories and telling stories.” They tell stories, she went on, even when no one is around to listen — to clarify their own thoughts, to teach and to stimulate research. “It’s not surprising they write,” she said. Reflecting the literary tastes of our age, Ms. Montgomery suggested, the fiction and poetry of doctors like , William Somerset Maugham and William Carlos Williams, among others, are being replaced by memoirs. The current television schedule may also influence the speeding of modern doctors’ work into print. With every second actor now wearing scrubs and saving lives, publishers undoubtedly sense a public appetite for the words of real doctors who are ready to spill all. But any reader anticipating a good, light read is likely to be disappointed. On television, the frenetic energy of the hospital may spell entertainment, but on the page it has become food for the increasingly sober existential thought. A look back at The New Yorker’s articles about medicine during the last few decades reveals the darkening mood of medical writing. For decades, the magazine’s medical beat belonged to Berton Roueché, a journalist who stumbled in the late 1940s onto the great unmined literary lode of medical practice. With no medical background himself, Mr. Roueché (who died in 1994) carefully constructed his dozens of stories about medicine to give the doctors he interviewed the primary narrative voice. Mr. Roueché’s contributions to The New Yorker’s Annals of Medicine were as addictive and as predictable as any detective fiction: a patient developed mysterious symptoms (a man grew breasts, a woman lost all her strength), and an astute doctor figured out why (the man’s wife used an -containing cream; the woman had the paralytic condition myasthenia gravis, but an operation let her dance again). Dr. Groopman and Dr. Gawande have assumed the Roueché mantle, but their cautionary fables could not be more different from his neatly packaged stories of medical success. Dr. Groopman made his New Yorker debut 10 years ago with the story of a patient dying of , who came to him asking for “magic.” The patient had heard that Dr. Groopman was “a medical genius, a wizard,” and liked to address him as “St. Jerome.” On television, this character might have gotten his magic. In reality, Dr. Groopman struggled to get him a few months of remission, only to find the man more miserable in health than he ever was in his fight against disease. Dr. Groopman has made it clear, in his writings since then, that medicine has no magic, wizards or geniuses, and very few saints. Instead, there is only uncertainty in an endless spectrum of grays, with doctors whose skills promote an illusion of magic and others who stumble. In his latest book, “How Doctors Think,” Dr. Groopman looks at when the sleight-of-hand goes wrong. Why should an emergency room doctor misdiagnose a heart attack, or a pediatrician fail to recognize a malnourished infant, or a highly pedigreed surgeon mistake the problem crippling Dr. Groopman’s right wrist? The flawed thinking is broken down, step by step, like the diagrams in a manual of how to palm cards. Next Article in Health (1 of 8) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Next Article in Health (1 of 8) &#x00bb; Everything you need to know about heart disease Hip resurfacing: is it right for you? The changing attitudes towards "chemo brain" Treating the awkward years THE NEW YORK TIMES CHICKEN COOKBOOK N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/health/15book.html	Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession - New York Times Mental Health & Behavior Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Sign In to E-Mail or Save This By ABIGAIL ZUGER, M.D. Published: May 15, 2007 Like the racket of dozens of birds on a clothesline, the sound of doctors is filling the air. Skip to next paragraph Top, Erik Jacobs for The New York Times; above, C.J. Gunther for The New York Times; Dr. Jerome Groopman, above, and Dr. Atul Gawande, top, are both clinicians at Harvard and write for The New Yorker. Some of the books discussed in this article: JOHN E. CASTALDO AND LAWRENCE P. LEVITT "The Man With the Iron Tattoo and Other True Tales of Uncommon Wisdom: What Our Patients Have Taught Us About Love, Faith and Healing" (Benbella Books, $20). "Better: A Surgeon's Notes on Performance" (Metropolitan, $24). "The Corrosion of Medicine: Can the Profession Reclaim Its Moral Legacy?" (Common Courage Press, $17.95). "How Doctors Think" (Houghton Mifflin, $26). "The Medical Detectives" (Plume, $16) and "The Man Who Grew Two Breasts" (Plume, $10.95). "M.D.: A Four-Year Journey Through Medical School" (iUniverse Inc., $13.95). "Galileo's Gout: Science in an Age of Endarkenment" (Bellevue Literary Press, $25). The strongest voices at the moment belong to Dr. Jerome Groopman and Dr. Atul Gawande, both clinicians at Harvard and writers for The New Yorker, both with articulate new books garnering impressive reviews and climbing in parallel to best-sellerdom. But they are only two of many doctors holding forth these days, in escalating volume. The last six months alone have seen the publication of a half-dozen volumes of memoir and opinion by doctors at every stage of professional life, from newbie (“M.D.: A Four-Year Journey Through Medical School” by Shani Stein-Ratzker) to emeritus (“Galileo’s Gout: Science in an Age of Endarkenment” by Gerald Weissmann). Some books promise to educate and inspire (“The Man With the Iron Tattoo and Other True Tales of Uncommon Wisdom: What Our Patients Have Taught Us About Love, Faith and Healing,” by John E. Castaldo and Lawrence P. Levitt). Some books promise social critique instead (“The Corrosion of Medicine: Can the Profession Reclaim Its Moral Legacy?” by John Geyman, due out at the end of the month). Doctors are also filling up newspaper columns (like this one), blogging, submitting work to literary journals and signing up for courses designed to help them break into print. It all prompts the same questions as a sudden swooping, squawking murmuration of starlings: where are they all coming from? And what in the world are they trying to say? Some listeners hear a set of new variations on very old songs. “Doctors are storytellers,” said Kathryn Montgomery, a professor of literature who directs the medical humanities and bioethics program at ’s Feinberg School of Medicine in Chicago. “They spend all day long listening to stories and telling stories.” They tell stories, she went on, even when no one is around to listen — to clarify their own thoughts, to teach and to stimulate research. “It’s not surprising they write,” she said. Reflecting the literary tastes of our age, Ms. Montgomery suggested, the fiction and poetry of doctors like , William Somerset Maugham and William Carlos Williams, among others, are being replaced by memoirs. The current television schedule may also influence the speeding of modern doctors’ work into print. With every second actor now wearing scrubs and saving lives, publishers undoubtedly sense a public appetite for the words of real doctors who are ready to spill all. But any reader anticipating a good, light read is likely to be disappointed. On television, the frenetic energy of the hospital may spell entertainment, but on the page it has become food for the increasingly sober existential thought. A look back at The New Yorker’s articles about medicine during the last few decades reveals the darkening mood of medical writing. For decades, the magazine’s medical beat belonged to Berton Roueché, a journalist who stumbled in the late 1940s onto the great unmined literary lode of medical practice. With no medical background himself, Mr. Roueché (who died in 1994) carefully constructed his dozens of stories about medicine to give the doctors he interviewed the primary narrative voice. Mr. Roueché’s contributions to The New Yorker’s Annals of Medicine were as addictive and as predictable as any detective fiction: a patient developed mysterious symptoms (a man grew breasts, a woman lost all her strength), and an astute doctor figured out why (the man’s wife used an -containing cream; the woman had the paralytic condition myasthenia gravis, but an operation let her dance again). Dr. Groopman and Dr. Gawande have assumed the Roueché mantle, but their cautionary fables could not be more different from his neatly packaged stories of medical success. Dr. Groopman made his New Yorker debut 10 years ago with the story of a patient dying of , who came to him asking for “magic.” The patient had heard that Dr. Groopman was “a medical genius, a wizard,” and liked to address him as “St. Jerome.” On television, this character might have gotten his magic. In reality, Dr. Groopman struggled to get him a few months of remission, only to find the man more miserable in health than he ever was in his fight against disease. Dr. Groopman has made it clear, in his writings since then, that medicine has no magic, wizards or geniuses, and very few saints. Instead, there is only uncertainty in an endless spectrum of grays, with doctors whose skills promote an illusion of magic and others who stumble. In his latest book, “How Doctors Think,” Dr. Groopman looks at when the sleight-of-hand goes wrong. Why should an emergency room doctor misdiagnose a heart attack, or a pediatrician fail to recognize a malnourished infant, or a highly pedigreed surgeon mistake the problem crippling Dr. Groopman’s right wrist? The flawed thinking is broken down, step by step, like the diagrams in a manual of how to palm cards. Next Article in Health (1 of 8) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Next Article in Health (1 of 8) &#x00bb; Everything you need to know about heart disease Hip resurfacing: is it right for you? The changing attitudes towards "chemo brain" Treating the awkward years THE NEW YORK TIMES CHICKEN COOKBOOK N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/washington/15medicare.html	Oklahoma Chides Insurer in Medicare Marketing Case - New York Times Oklahoma Chides Insurer in Medicare Marketing Case Kim Holland, Oklahoma insurance commissioner, said Humana &#147;did not adequately supervise its agents.&#148; Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 15, 2007 WASHINGTON, May 14 — In the first major investigation of Medicare marketing, the insurance commissioner has documented widespread misconduct by agents working for Humana and has ordered the company to take corrective action to protect consumers against high-pressure sales tactics. The commissioner, Kim Holland, said some agents had enrolled Medicare recipients in Humana products that “they did not understand and did not want.” At least 68 agents did not have the licenses needed to sell insurance in Oklahoma, Ms. Holland said Monday in an interview. “Humana took advantage of a new market, but did not adequately supervise its agents,” said Ms. Holland, who was an insurance agent for 25 years before becoming the state’s top insurance regulator in 2005. Humana has made a big push to expand its Medicare business and is now the second-largest participant in the Medicare market, after the UnitedHealth Group. Thomas T. Noland Jr., a senior vice president of Humana, said that people who chose its products were overwhelmingly satisfied. “As the guardian of the company’s reputation, I would know if there were any problems,” Mr. Noland said. In its latest financial report, Humana said its “increased sales and marketing efforts” had been effective. Enrollment in its Medicare Advantage plans totaled 1.1 million on March 31, up 50 percent from a year earlier, and the number of people in its free-standing drug plans shot up 77 percent, to 3.5 million. The drug plans provide pharmacy benefits, but do not pay for doctors or hospitals. Of the 41 states responding to a recent survey by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners, 39 said they had received complaints about misrepresentations by insurance agents or companies in marketing Medicare-related products. Twenty-two states reported complaints of fraudulent activity like falsifying signatures on applications. Many state insurance commissioners say some insurers have used improper hard-sell tactics to persuade Medicare recipients to sign up for private health plans. Oklahoma is the first state to conduct a formal “market conduct examination,” visiting a company’s offices and reviewing its files to assess sales practices. Karen M. Ignagni, president of America’s Health Insurance Plans, a trade group, said her organization would adopt stricter standards to ensure that agents provided “clear, complete and accurate information.” After being reprimanded by federal auditors, WellCare Health Plans announced new compliance measures last week. Janet S. Trautwein, executive vice president of the National Association of Health Underwriters, which represents insurance agents and brokers, said: “A few bad apples have been behaving unethically. I make no excuses for them. They do not reflect the behavior of the majority of agents who work with seniors.” The Oklahoma Insurance Department said it had found many cases in which agents enrolled Medicare beneficiaries in Humana plans that were not in their best interests. In some cases, the regulators said, consumers were confused because they had dementia or other mental impairments. Oklahoma investigators found that some people who wanted to buy just drug coverage from Humana were instead enrolled in “an unwanted plan,” a comprehensive Medicare Advantage plan. The investigators’ report said it appeared that some agents had used “bait-and-switch tactics to secure the initial invitation” into the homes of Medicare beneficiaries. In one case in the report, a man was switched to a Humana plan from traditional Medicare. As a result, he lost the extra benefits that he had under a Medicare supplement policy from Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Oklahoma, and he incurred additional costs when he became ill. The Oklahoma Insurance Department said: “The member had to borrow against his house to pay for these uninsured hospital and medical expenses. This was solely due to the failure of the agent to properly explain his existing coverage and the impact of purchasing a Medicare Advantage plan.” Humana investigated numerous complaints. But, the report said, in many cases “the investigation was conducted more to mitigate, justify and defend the actions of the agent and the company” than to help consumers. In its report, the Oklahoma Insurance Department also made these findings: ¶Humana gave agents a strong incentive to sell Medicare Advantage plans, typically paying a commission of $250 for each sale, five times as much as the commission for selling a prescription drug plan. ¶Humana did not maintain a complete record of complaints from Medicare beneficiaries, as required under Oklahoma law. ¶Independent agents had to complete a 16-hour training course that included three hours of “self-study” and four hours of telephone conference calls. “This training program,” the report said, “did not appear to be sufficiently comprehensive to fully cover a topic as complex as Medicare and the products which these agents would be selling.” More Articles in Washington &#x00bb; Want to save this article?  Download the Times File Toolbar - get it now with TimesSelect. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Humana Profit More Than Doubles, Aided by Medicare Gains In Scramble for New Medicare Business, a Few Insurers Grab the Most COMPANY NEWS; HUMANA PROFIT UP SHARPLY AS MEDICARE ROLLS EXPAND COMPANY NEWS; HUMANA RAISES PROFIT ESTIMATE FOR FIRST QUARTER More Articles in Washington &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Construction Workers Lunching on a Crossbeam - 1932 N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/washington/15medicare.html	Oklahoma Chides Insurer in Medicare Marketing Case - New York Times Oklahoma Chides Insurer in Medicare Marketing Case Kim Holland, Oklahoma insurance commissioner, said Humana &#147;did not adequately supervise its agents.&#148; Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 15, 2007 WASHINGTON, May 14 — In the first major investigation of Medicare marketing, the insurance commissioner has documented widespread misconduct by agents working for Humana and has ordered the company to take corrective action to protect consumers against high-pressure sales tactics. The commissioner, Kim Holland, said some agents had enrolled Medicare recipients in Humana products that “they did not understand and did not want.” At least 68 agents did not have the licenses needed to sell insurance in Oklahoma, Ms. Holland said Monday in an interview. “Humana took advantage of a new market, but did not adequately supervise its agents,” said Ms. Holland, who was an insurance agent for 25 years before becoming the state’s top insurance regulator in 2005. Humana has made a big push to expand its Medicare business and is now the second-largest participant in the Medicare market, after the UnitedHealth Group. Thomas T. Noland Jr., a senior vice president of Humana, said that people who chose its products were overwhelmingly satisfied. “As the guardian of the company’s reputation, I would know if there were any problems,” Mr. Noland said. In its latest financial report, Humana said its “increased sales and marketing efforts” had been effective. Enrollment in its Medicare Advantage plans totaled 1.1 million on March 31, up 50 percent from a year earlier, and the number of people in its free-standing drug plans shot up 77 percent, to 3.5 million. The drug plans provide pharmacy benefits, but do not pay for doctors or hospitals. Of the 41 states responding to a recent survey by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners, 39 said they had received complaints about misrepresentations by insurance agents or companies in marketing Medicare-related products. Twenty-two states reported complaints of fraudulent activity like falsifying signatures on applications. Many state insurance commissioners say some insurers have used improper hard-sell tactics to persuade Medicare recipients to sign up for private health plans. Oklahoma is the first state to conduct a formal “market conduct examination,” visiting a company’s offices and reviewing its files to assess sales practices. Karen M. Ignagni, president of America’s Health Insurance Plans, a trade group, said her organization would adopt stricter standards to ensure that agents provided “clear, complete and accurate information.” After being reprimanded by federal auditors, WellCare Health Plans announced new compliance measures last week. Janet S. Trautwein, executive vice president of the National Association of Health Underwriters, which represents insurance agents and brokers, said: “A few bad apples have been behaving unethically. I make no excuses for them. They do not reflect the behavior of the majority of agents who work with seniors.” The Oklahoma Insurance Department said it had found many cases in which agents enrolled Medicare beneficiaries in Humana plans that were not in their best interests. In some cases, the regulators said, consumers were confused because they had dementia or other mental impairments. Oklahoma investigators found that some people who wanted to buy just drug coverage from Humana were instead enrolled in “an unwanted plan,” a comprehensive Medicare Advantage plan. The investigators’ report said it appeared that some agents had used “bait-and-switch tactics to secure the initial invitation” into the homes of Medicare beneficiaries. In one case in the report, a man was switched to a Humana plan from traditional Medicare. As a result, he lost the extra benefits that he had under a Medicare supplement policy from Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Oklahoma, and he incurred additional costs when he became ill. The Oklahoma Insurance Department said: “The member had to borrow against his house to pay for these uninsured hospital and medical expenses. This was solely due to the failure of the agent to properly explain his existing coverage and the impact of purchasing a Medicare Advantage plan.” Humana investigated numerous complaints. But, the report said, in many cases “the investigation was conducted more to mitigate, justify and defend the actions of the agent and the company” than to help consumers. In its report, the Oklahoma Insurance Department also made these findings: ¶Humana gave agents a strong incentive to sell Medicare Advantage plans, typically paying a commission of $250 for each sale, five times as much as the commission for selling a prescription drug plan. ¶Humana did not maintain a complete record of complaints from Medicare beneficiaries, as required under Oklahoma law. ¶Independent agents had to complete a 16-hour training course that included three hours of “self-study” and four hours of telephone conference calls. “This training program,” the report said, “did not appear to be sufficiently comprehensive to fully cover a topic as complex as Medicare and the products which these agents would be selling.” More Articles in Washington &#x00bb; Want to save this article?  Download the Times File Toolbar - get it now with TimesSelect. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Humana Profit More Than Doubles, Aided by Medicare Gains In Scramble for New Medicare Business, a Few Insurers Grab the Most COMPANY NEWS; HUMANA PROFIT UP SHARPLY AS MEDICARE ROLLS EXPAND COMPANY NEWS; HUMANA RAISES PROFIT ESTIMATE FOR FIRST QUARTER More Articles in Washington &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Construction Workers Lunching on a Crossbeam - 1932 N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/health/15book.html?ex=1336881600&en=cf11862437860347&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession - New York Times Mental Health & Behavior Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Sign In to E-Mail or Save This By ABIGAIL ZUGER, M.D. Published: May 15, 2007 Like the racket of dozens of birds on a clothesline, the sound of doctors is filling the air. Skip to next paragraph Top, Erik Jacobs for The New York Times; above, C.J. Gunther for The New York Times; Dr. Jerome Groopman, above, and Dr. Atul Gawande, top, are both clinicians at Harvard and write for The New Yorker. Some of the books discussed in this article: JOHN E. CASTALDO AND LAWRENCE P. LEVITT "The Man With the Iron Tattoo and Other True Tales of Uncommon Wisdom: What Our Patients Have Taught Us About Love, Faith and Healing" (Benbella Books, $20). "Better: A Surgeon's Notes on Performance" (Metropolitan, $24). "The Corrosion of Medicine: Can the Profession Reclaim Its Moral Legacy?" (Common Courage Press, $17.95). "How Doctors Think" (Houghton Mifflin, $26). "The Medical Detectives" (Plume, $16) and "The Man Who Grew Two Breasts" (Plume, $10.95). "M.D.: A Four-Year Journey Through Medical School" (iUniverse Inc., $13.95). "Galileo's Gout: Science in an Age of Endarkenment" (Bellevue Literary Press, $25). The strongest voices at the moment belong to Dr. Jerome Groopman and Dr. Atul Gawande, both clinicians at Harvard and writers for The New Yorker, both with articulate new books garnering impressive reviews and climbing in parallel to best-sellerdom. But they are only two of many doctors holding forth these days, in escalating volume. The last six months alone have seen the publication of a half-dozen volumes of memoir and opinion by doctors at every stage of professional life, from newbie (“M.D.: A Four-Year Journey Through Medical School” by Shani Stein-Ratzker) to emeritus (“Galileo’s Gout: Science in an Age of Endarkenment” by Gerald Weissmann). Some books promise to educate and inspire (“The Man With the Iron Tattoo and Other True Tales of Uncommon Wisdom: What Our Patients Have Taught Us About Love, Faith and Healing,” by John E. Castaldo and Lawrence P. Levitt). Some books promise social critique instead (“The Corrosion of Medicine: Can the Profession Reclaim Its Moral Legacy?” by John Geyman, due out at the end of the month). Doctors are also filling up newspaper columns (like this one), blogging, submitting work to literary journals and signing up for courses designed to help them break into print. It all prompts the same questions as a sudden swooping, squawking murmuration of starlings: where are they all coming from? And what in the world are they trying to say? Some listeners hear a set of new variations on very old songs. “Doctors are storytellers,” said Kathryn Montgomery, a professor of literature who directs the medical humanities and bioethics program at ’s Feinberg School of Medicine in Chicago. “They spend all day long listening to stories and telling stories.” They tell stories, she went on, even when no one is around to listen — to clarify their own thoughts, to teach and to stimulate research. “It’s not surprising they write,” she said. Reflecting the literary tastes of our age, Ms. Montgomery suggested, the fiction and poetry of doctors like , William Somerset Maugham and William Carlos Williams, among others, are being replaced by memoirs. The current television schedule may also influence the speeding of modern doctors’ work into print. With every second actor now wearing scrubs and saving lives, publishers undoubtedly sense a public appetite for the words of real doctors who are ready to spill all. But any reader anticipating a good, light read is likely to be disappointed. On television, the frenetic energy of the hospital may spell entertainment, but on the page it has become food for the increasingly sober existential thought. A look back at The New Yorker’s articles about medicine during the last few decades reveals the darkening mood of medical writing. For decades, the magazine’s medical beat belonged to Berton Roueché, a journalist who stumbled in the late 1940s onto the great unmined literary lode of medical practice. With no medical background himself, Mr. Roueché (who died in 1994) carefully constructed his dozens of stories about medicine to give the doctors he interviewed the primary narrative voice. Mr. Roueché’s contributions to The New Yorker’s Annals of Medicine were as addictive and as predictable as any detective fiction: a patient developed mysterious symptoms (a man grew breasts, a woman lost all her strength), and an astute doctor figured out why (the man’s wife used an -containing cream; the woman had the paralytic condition myasthenia gravis, but an operation let her dance again). Dr. Groopman and Dr. Gawande have assumed the Roueché mantle, but their cautionary fables could not be more different from his neatly packaged stories of medical success. Dr. Groopman made his New Yorker debut 10 years ago with the story of a patient dying of , who came to him asking for “magic.” The patient had heard that Dr. Groopman was “a medical genius, a wizard,” and liked to address him as “St. Jerome.” On television, this character might have gotten his magic. In reality, Dr. Groopman struggled to get him a few months of remission, only to find the man more miserable in health than he ever was in his fight against disease. Dr. Groopman has made it clear, in his writings since then, that medicine has no magic, wizards or geniuses, and very few saints. Instead, there is only uncertainty in an endless spectrum of grays, with doctors whose skills promote an illusion of magic and others who stumble. In his latest book, “How Doctors Think,” Dr. Groopman looks at when the sleight-of-hand goes wrong. Why should an emergency room doctor misdiagnose a heart attack, or a pediatrician fail to recognize a malnourished infant, or a highly pedigreed surgeon mistake the problem crippling Dr. Groopman’s right wrist? The flawed thinking is broken down, step by step, like the diagrams in a manual of how to palm cards. Next Article in Health (1 of 8) &#x00bb; Want to save this article?  Download the Times File Toolbar - get it now with TimesSelect. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Next Article in Health (1 of 8) &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » Everything you need to know about heart disease Hip resurfacing: is it right for you? The changing attitudes towards "chemo brain" Treating the awkward years THE NEW YORK TIMES CHICKEN COOKBOOK N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/health/15book.html?ex=1336881600&en=cf11862437860347&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession - New York Times Mental Health & Behavior Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Sign In to E-Mail or Save This By ABIGAIL ZUGER, M.D. Published: May 15, 2007 Like the racket of dozens of birds on a clothesline, the sound of doctors is filling the air. Skip to next paragraph Top, Erik Jacobs for The New York Times; above, C.J. Gunther for The New York Times; Dr. Jerome Groopman, above, and Dr. Atul Gawande, top, are both clinicians at Harvard and write for The New Yorker. Some of the books discussed in this article: JOHN E. CASTALDO AND LAWRENCE P. LEVITT "The Man With the Iron Tattoo and Other True Tales of Uncommon Wisdom: What Our Patients Have Taught Us About Love, Faith and Healing" (Benbella Books, $20). "Better: A Surgeon's Notes on Performance" (Metropolitan, $24). "The Corrosion of Medicine: Can the Profession Reclaim Its Moral Legacy?" (Common Courage Press, $17.95). "How Doctors Think" (Houghton Mifflin, $26). "The Medical Detectives" (Plume, $16) and "The Man Who Grew Two Breasts" (Plume, $10.95). "M.D.: A Four-Year Journey Through Medical School" (iUniverse Inc., $13.95). "Galileo's Gout: Science in an Age of Endarkenment" (Bellevue Literary Press, $25). The strongest voices at the moment belong to Dr. Jerome Groopman and Dr. Atul Gawande, both clinicians at Harvard and writers for The New Yorker, both with articulate new books garnering impressive reviews and climbing in parallel to best-sellerdom. But they are only two of many doctors holding forth these days, in escalating volume. The last six months alone have seen the publication of a half-dozen volumes of memoir and opinion by doctors at every stage of professional life, from newbie (“M.D.: A Four-Year Journey Through Medical School” by Shani Stein-Ratzker) to emeritus (“Galileo’s Gout: Science in an Age of Endarkenment” by Gerald Weissmann). Some books promise to educate and inspire (“The Man With the Iron Tattoo and Other True Tales of Uncommon Wisdom: What Our Patients Have Taught Us About Love, Faith and Healing,” by John E. Castaldo and Lawrence P. Levitt). Some books promise social critique instead (“The Corrosion of Medicine: Can the Profession Reclaim Its Moral Legacy?” by John Geyman, due out at the end of the month). Doctors are also filling up newspaper columns (like this one), blogging, submitting work to literary journals and signing up for courses designed to help them break into print. It all prompts the same questions as a sudden swooping, squawking murmuration of starlings: where are they all coming from? And what in the world are they trying to say? Some listeners hear a set of new variations on very old songs. “Doctors are storytellers,” said Kathryn Montgomery, a professor of literature who directs the medical humanities and bioethics program at ’s Feinberg School of Medicine in Chicago. “They spend all day long listening to stories and telling stories.” They tell stories, she went on, even when no one is around to listen — to clarify their own thoughts, to teach and to stimulate research. “It’s not surprising they write,” she said. Reflecting the literary tastes of our age, Ms. Montgomery suggested, the fiction and poetry of doctors like , William Somerset Maugham and William Carlos Williams, among others, are being replaced by memoirs. The current television schedule may also influence the speeding of modern doctors’ work into print. With every second actor now wearing scrubs and saving lives, publishers undoubtedly sense a public appetite for the words of real doctors who are ready to spill all. But any reader anticipating a good, light read is likely to be disappointed. On television, the frenetic energy of the hospital may spell entertainment, but on the page it has become food for the increasingly sober existential thought. A look back at The New Yorker’s articles about medicine during the last few decades reveals the darkening mood of medical writing. For decades, the magazine’s medical beat belonged to Berton Roueché, a journalist who stumbled in the late 1940s onto the great unmined literary lode of medical practice. With no medical background himself, Mr. Roueché (who died in 1994) carefully constructed his dozens of stories about medicine to give the doctors he interviewed the primary narrative voice. Mr. Roueché’s contributions to The New Yorker’s Annals of Medicine were as addictive and as predictable as any detective fiction: a patient developed mysterious symptoms (a man grew breasts, a woman lost all her strength), and an astute doctor figured out why (the man’s wife used an -containing cream; the woman had the paralytic condition myasthenia gravis, but an operation let her dance again). Dr. Groopman and Dr. Gawande have assumed the Roueché mantle, but their cautionary fables could not be more different from his neatly packaged stories of medical success. Dr. Groopman made his New Yorker debut 10 years ago with the story of a patient dying of , who came to him asking for “magic.” The patient had heard that Dr. Groopman was “a medical genius, a wizard,” and liked to address him as “St. Jerome.” On television, this character might have gotten his magic. In reality, Dr. Groopman struggled to get him a few months of remission, only to find the man more miserable in health than he ever was in his fight against disease. Dr. Groopman has made it clear, in his writings since then, that medicine has no magic, wizards or geniuses, and very few saints. Instead, there is only uncertainty in an endless spectrum of grays, with doctors whose skills promote an illusion of magic and others who stumble. In his latest book, “How Doctors Think,” Dr. Groopman looks at when the sleight-of-hand goes wrong. Why should an emergency room doctor misdiagnose a heart attack, or a pediatrician fail to recognize a malnourished infant, or a highly pedigreed surgeon mistake the problem crippling Dr. Groopman’s right wrist? The flawed thinking is broken down, step by step, like the diagrams in a manual of how to palm cards. Next Article in Health (1 of 8) &#x00bb; Want to save this article?  Download the Times File Toolbar - get it now with TimesSelect. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Next Article in Health (1 of 8) &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » Everything you need to know about heart disease Hip resurfacing: is it right for you? The changing attitudes towards "chemo brain" Treating the awkward years THE NEW YORK TIMES CHICKEN COOKBOOK N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/health/15real.html	The Claim: Darker Skin Protects Against Skin Cancer - New York Times Mental Health & Behavior The Claim: Darker Skin Protects Against Skin Cancer Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 15, 2007 Skip to next paragraph It is well known that people with darker skin get deeper tans and burn less quickly than other people. But does that mean better protection against skin The answer is not clear-cut. Although darker-skinned people face a lower risk of skin cancer, they are more likely to develop more aggressive forms of the disease and more likely to die from it. A large part of the problem is a false sense of security. Dark skin has higher amounts of melanin that can filter as much as twice the amount of ultraviolet as paler skin. But that protection still falls short of what doctors recommend when using sunscreen: a skin protection factor, or SPF, of 15 or more. And because many people with dark skin believe that it provides complete immunity, experts say, they often overlook early warning signs. A 2006 study in The Archives of Internal Medicine looked at more than 1,500 people with melanoma. It found that whites were far less likely to have late-stage melanoma than blacks, Hispanics, American Indians and Asians. On average, whites also had a greater five-year survival rate (90 percent) than the others (less than 80 percent). Another study last year in The Archives of Dermatology looked at 1,700 cases of melanoma reported in Florida over a five-year period and had similar results. People with darker skin tones have a lower risk of skin cancer, but are more likely to die from it. Next Article in Health (4 of 8) &#x00bb; Want to save this article?  Download the Times File Toolbar - get it now with TimesSelect. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Next Article in Health (4 of 8) &#x00bb; Everything you need to know about heart disease Hip resurfacing: is it right for you? The changing attitudes towards "chemo brain" Treating the awkward years N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/health/15real.html	The Claim: Darker Skin Protects Against Skin Cancer - New York Times Mental Health & Behavior The Claim: Darker Skin Protects Against Skin Cancer Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 15, 2007 Skip to next paragraph It is well known that people with darker skin get deeper tans and burn less quickly than other people. But does that mean better protection against skin The answer is not clear-cut. Although darker-skinned people face a lower risk of skin cancer, they are more likely to develop more aggressive forms of the disease and more likely to die from it. A large part of the problem is a false sense of security. Dark skin has higher amounts of melanin that can filter as much as twice the amount of ultraviolet as paler skin. But that protection still falls short of what doctors recommend when using sunscreen: a skin protection factor, or SPF, of 15 or more. And because many people with dark skin believe that it provides complete immunity, experts say, they often overlook early warning signs. A 2006 study in The Archives of Internal Medicine looked at more than 1,500 people with melanoma. It found that whites were far less likely to have late-stage melanoma than blacks, Hispanics, American Indians and Asians. On average, whites also had a greater five-year survival rate (90 percent) than the others (less than 80 percent). Another study last year in The Archives of Dermatology looked at 1,700 cases of melanoma reported in Florida over a five-year period and had similar results. People with darker skin tones have a lower risk of skin cancer, but are more likely to die from it. Next Article in Health (4 of 8) &#x00bb; Want to save this article?  Download the Times File Toolbar - get it now with TimesSelect. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Next Article in Health (4 of 8) &#x00bb; Everything you need to know about heart disease Hip resurfacing: is it right for you? The changing attitudes towards "chemo brain" Treating the awkward years N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/washington/15medicare.html?ex=1336881600&en=f4e60b004c0abe1f&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Oklahoma Chides Insurer in Medicare Marketing Case - New York Times Oklahoma Chides Insurer in Medicare Marketing Case Kim Holland, Oklahoma insurance commissioner, said Humana &#147;did not adequately supervise its agents.&#148; Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 15, 2007 WASHINGTON, May 14 — In the first major investigation of Medicare marketing, the insurance commissioner has documented widespread misconduct by agents working for Humana and has ordered the company to take corrective action to protect consumers against high-pressure sales tactics. The commissioner, Kim Holland, said some agents had enrolled Medicare recipients in Humana products that “they did not understand and did not want.” At least 68 agents did not have the licenses needed to sell insurance in Oklahoma, Ms. Holland said Monday in an interview. “Humana took advantage of a new market, but did not adequately supervise its agents,” said Ms. Holland, who was an insurance agent for 25 years before becoming the state’s top insurance regulator in 2005. Humana has made a big push to expand its Medicare business and is now the second-largest participant in the Medicare market, after the UnitedHealth Group. Thomas T. Noland Jr., a senior vice president of Humana, said that people who chose its products were overwhelmingly satisfied. “As the guardian of the company’s reputation, I would know if there were any problems,” Mr. Noland said. In its latest financial report, Humana said its “increased sales and marketing efforts” had been effective. Enrollment in its Medicare Advantage plans totaled 1.1 million on March 31, up 50 percent from a year earlier, and the number of people in its free-standing drug plans shot up 77 percent, to 3.5 million. The drug plans provide pharmacy benefits, but do not pay for doctors or hospitals. Of the 41 states responding to a recent survey by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners, 39 said they had received complaints about misrepresentations by insurance agents or companies in marketing Medicare-related products. Twenty-two states reported complaints of fraudulent activity like falsifying signatures on applications. Many state insurance commissioners say some insurers have used improper hard-sell tactics to persuade Medicare recipients to sign up for private health plans. Oklahoma is the first state to conduct a formal “market conduct examination,” visiting a company’s offices and reviewing its files to assess sales practices. Karen M. Ignagni, president of America’s Health Insurance Plans, a trade group, said her organization would adopt stricter standards to ensure that agents provided “clear, complete and accurate information.” After being reprimanded by federal auditors, WellCare Health Plans announced new compliance measures last week. Janet S. Trautwein, executive vice president of the National Association of Health Underwriters, which represents insurance agents and brokers, said: “A few bad apples have been behaving unethically. I make no excuses for them. They do not reflect the behavior of the majority of agents who work with seniors.” The Oklahoma Insurance Department said it had found many cases in which agents enrolled Medicare beneficiaries in Humana plans that were not in their best interests. In some cases, the regulators said, consumers were confused because they had dementia or other mental impairments. Oklahoma investigators found that some people who wanted to buy just drug coverage from Humana were instead enrolled in “an unwanted plan,” a comprehensive Medicare Advantage plan. The investigators’ report said it appeared that some agents had used “bait-and-switch tactics to secure the initial invitation” into the homes of Medicare beneficiaries. In one case in the report, a man was switched to a Humana plan from traditional Medicare. As a result, he lost the extra benefits that he had under a Medicare supplement policy from Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Oklahoma, and he incurred additional costs when he became ill. The Oklahoma Insurance Department said: “The member had to borrow against his house to pay for these uninsured hospital and medical expenses. This was solely due to the failure of the agent to properly explain his existing coverage and the impact of purchasing a Medicare Advantage plan.” Humana investigated numerous complaints. But, the report said, in many cases “the investigation was conducted more to mitigate, justify and defend the actions of the agent and the company” than to help consumers. In its report, the Oklahoma Insurance Department also made these findings: ¶Humana gave agents a strong incentive to sell Medicare Advantage plans, typically paying a commission of $250 for each sale, five times as much as the commission for selling a prescription drug plan. ¶Humana did not maintain a complete record of complaints from Medicare beneficiaries, as required under Oklahoma law. ¶Independent agents had to complete a 16-hour training course that included three hours of “self-study” and four hours of telephone conference calls. “This training program,” the report said, “did not appear to be sufficiently comprehensive to fully cover a topic as complex as Medicare and the products which these agents would be selling.” More Articles in Washington &#x00bb; Want to save this article?  Download the Times File Toolbar - get it now with TimesSelect. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Humana Profit More Than Doubles, Aided by Medicare Gains In Scramble for New Medicare Business, a Few Insurers Grab the Most COMPANY NEWS; HUMANA PROFIT UP SHARPLY AS MEDICARE ROLLS EXPAND COMPANY NEWS; HUMANA RAISES PROFIT ESTIMATE FOR FIRST QUARTER More Articles in Washington &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/washington/15medicare.html?ex=1336881600&en=f4e60b004c0abe1f&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Oklahoma Chides Insurer in Medicare Marketing Case - New York Times Oklahoma Chides Insurer in Medicare Marketing Case Kim Holland, Oklahoma insurance commissioner, said Humana &#147;did not adequately supervise its agents.&#148; Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 15, 2007 WASHINGTON, May 14 — In the first major investigation of Medicare marketing, the insurance commissioner has documented widespread misconduct by agents working for Humana and has ordered the company to take corrective action to protect consumers against high-pressure sales tactics. The commissioner, Kim Holland, said some agents had enrolled Medicare recipients in Humana products that “they did not understand and did not want.” At least 68 agents did not have the licenses needed to sell insurance in Oklahoma, Ms. Holland said Monday in an interview. “Humana took advantage of a new market, but did not adequately supervise its agents,” said Ms. Holland, who was an insurance agent for 25 years before becoming the state’s top insurance regulator in 2005. Humana has made a big push to expand its Medicare business and is now the second-largest participant in the Medicare market, after the UnitedHealth Group. Thomas T. Noland Jr., a senior vice president of Humana, said that people who chose its products were overwhelmingly satisfied. “As the guardian of the company’s reputation, I would know if there were any problems,” Mr. Noland said. In its latest financial report, Humana said its “increased sales and marketing efforts” had been effective. Enrollment in its Medicare Advantage plans totaled 1.1 million on March 31, up 50 percent from a year earlier, and the number of people in its free-standing drug plans shot up 77 percent, to 3.5 million. The drug plans provide pharmacy benefits, but do not pay for doctors or hospitals. Of the 41 states responding to a recent survey by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners, 39 said they had received complaints about misrepresentations by insurance agents or companies in marketing Medicare-related products. Twenty-two states reported complaints of fraudulent activity like falsifying signatures on applications. Many state insurance commissioners say some insurers have used improper hard-sell tactics to persuade Medicare recipients to sign up for private health plans. Oklahoma is the first state to conduct a formal “market conduct examination,” visiting a company’s offices and reviewing its files to assess sales practices. Karen M. Ignagni, president of America’s Health Insurance Plans, a trade group, said her organization would adopt stricter standards to ensure that agents provided “clear, complete and accurate information.” After being reprimanded by federal auditors, WellCare Health Plans announced new compliance measures last week. Janet S. Trautwein, executive vice president of the National Association of Health Underwriters, which represents insurance agents and brokers, said: “A few bad apples have been behaving unethically. I make no excuses for them. They do not reflect the behavior of the majority of agents who work with seniors.” The Oklahoma Insurance Department said it had found many cases in which agents enrolled Medicare beneficiaries in Humana plans that were not in their best interests. In some cases, the regulators said, consumers were confused because they had dementia or other mental impairments. Oklahoma investigators found that some people who wanted to buy just drug coverage from Humana were instead enrolled in “an unwanted plan,” a comprehensive Medicare Advantage plan. The investigators’ report said it appeared that some agents had used “bait-and-switch tactics to secure the initial invitation” into the homes of Medicare beneficiaries. In one case in the report, a man was switched to a Humana plan from traditional Medicare. As a result, he lost the extra benefits that he had under a Medicare supplement policy from Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Oklahoma, and he incurred additional costs when he became ill. The Oklahoma Insurance Department said: “The member had to borrow against his house to pay for these uninsured hospital and medical expenses. This was solely due to the failure of the agent to properly explain his existing coverage and the impact of purchasing a Medicare Advantage plan.” Humana investigated numerous complaints. But, the report said, in many cases “the investigation was conducted more to mitigate, justify and defend the actions of the agent and the company” than to help consumers. In its report, the Oklahoma Insurance Department also made these findings: ¶Humana gave agents a strong incentive to sell Medicare Advantage plans, typically paying a commission of $250 for each sale, five times as much as the commission for selling a prescription drug plan. ¶Humana did not maintain a complete record of complaints from Medicare beneficiaries, as required under Oklahoma law. ¶Independent agents had to complete a 16-hour training course that included three hours of “self-study” and four hours of telephone conference calls. “This training program,” the report said, “did not appear to be sufficiently comprehensive to fully cover a topic as complex as Medicare and the products which these agents would be selling.” More Articles in Washington &#x00bb; Want to save this article?  Download the Times File Toolbar - get it now with TimesSelect. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Humana Profit More Than Doubles, Aided by Medicare Gains In Scramble for New Medicare Business, a Few Insurers Grab the Most COMPANY NEWS; HUMANA PROFIT UP SHARPLY AS MEDICARE ROLLS EXPAND COMPANY NEWS; HUMANA RAISES PROFIT ESTIMATE FOR FIRST QUARTER More Articles in Washington &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/pages/health/index.html	Health News - New York Times Mental Health & Behavior Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession By ABIGAIL ZUGER, M.D. Some doctors turned writers want to dispel the notion of medical magic, some offer social critique and some should keep their day jobs. As Demand for Donor Eggs Soars, High Prices Stir Ethical Concerns By RONI CARYN RABIN Many egg donors derive great satisfaction from knowing that they helped someone start a family, but sizable payments are raising controversy. More The Consumer Columns » Oklahoma Chides Insurer in Medicare Marketing Case Some agents for Humana have enrolled Medicare recipients in products that “they did not understand and did not want,” an official said. An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Some are questioning whether Oscar Pistorius’s prosthetic legs give him an unfair advantage over other sprinters. Q & A : Two Kinds of Oxygen Vital Signs: Patterns: Moderate Drinking May Ease Effects of ‘Bad’ Cholesterol Vital Signs: Nutrition: A Cardiovascular Argument for Eating Whole Grains Obama Says He’d Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest In Corzine’s Recovery, Doctors Cite Grit and Luck Westchester to Pay Woman in False TB Scare John K. Lattimer, Urologist of Varied Expertise, Dies at 92 In New Hampshire, Soft Sell Eases Vaccine Fears Doctor Grafted Skin to Aid Drug Dealers, U.S. Authorities Say Electric Pulses, Instead of Shocks, Can Help Heart Patients Some parents of children with Down syndrome want prospective parents to know the positive side of raising a child with the genetic condition. : Going Against the Flow A birth control pill designed to eliminate the monthly period may hit the market soon. : Choosing Hip Resurfacing Keith McDonald underwent hip resurfacing surgery, a newer alternative to total hip replacement. Dairy Council to End Ad Campaign That Linked Drinking Milk With Weight Loss The Yoga Therapist Will See You Now Passage of Drug Safety Bill Was Common Goal for Two Very Different Senators Senate Approves Tighter Policing of Drug Makers MENTAL HEALTH & BEHAVIOR» Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry’s Role Study Suggests Meditation Can Help Train Attention HPV Vaccine: Few Risks, Many Benefits By JANE E. BRODY Many parents remain wary about using the HPV vaccine for the girls and young women it was meant to protect. The Claim: Darker Skin Protects Against Skin Cancer People with darker skin get deeper tans and burn less quickly than other people, but does that mean better protection against skin cancer? Jane Brody, "Personal Health" columnist, discusses the latest health news. Genetic Testing + Abortion = ??? The right to choose, and the right to screen for sex, cancer genes or smarts. A user's guide to diagnostic tests. What you need to know about procedures and diagnoses for six major diseases. Go to Special Section » News from AP &#x00bb; Study: Vitamins Tied to Prostate Cancer Blood Pressure Rising Around the Globe Boy Receives New Heart at Ark. Hospital Researchers Examine Crystal Meth Effects Blood Pressure Rising Around the Globe FDA: FluMist Effective for Kids Under 5 Browse All Health Topics Select a Health Topic Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS) Dietary Supplements and Herbal Remedies Food Contamination and Poisoning Human Papilloma Virus (HPV) Mental Health and Disorders Post Traumatic Stress Disorder SARS (Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome) Seasonal Affective Disorder (SAD) Sexually Transmitted Diseases (STDs) Sudden Infant Death Syndrome Suicides and Suicide Attempts Health & Fitness Tools What's your score? » Calorie Calculator for Goal Weight What's your limit? » MOST POPULAR - HEALTH Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Vital Signs: Nutrition: A Cardiovascular Argument for Eating Whole Grains The Consumer: As Demand for Donor Eggs Soars, High Prices Stir Ethical Concerns Personal Health: HPV Vaccine: Few Risks, Many Benefits Vital Signs: Patterns: Moderate Drinking May Ease Effects of &#8216;Bad&#8217; Cholesterol Really?: The Claim: Darker Skin Protects Against Skin Cancer Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role Study Suggests Meditation Can Help Train Attention Jury Is Still Out on Gluten, the Latest Dietary Villain Go to Complete List » Psychiatrists, Troubled Children and Drug Industry's Role In New Hampshire, Soft Sell Eases Vaccine Fears Patterns: Moderate Drinking May Ease Effects of â€˜Bad' Cholesterol Electric Pulses, Instead of Shocks, Can Help Heart Patients Go to Complete List » Everything you need to know about heart disease Hip resurfacing: is it right for you? The changing attitudes towards "chemo brain" Treating the awkward years Be Prepared. For Your Major Purchase. What movie should you see? What’s new on Broadway? Photos, fine art, books and more. Post a job online today! Buy, sell or rent a home. The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/pages/health/index.html	Health News - New York Times Mental Health & Behavior Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession By ABIGAIL ZUGER, M.D. Some doctors turned writers want to dispel the notion of medical magic, some offer social critique and some should keep their day jobs. As Demand for Donor Eggs Soars, High Prices Stir Ethical Concerns By RONI CARYN RABIN Many egg donors derive great satisfaction from knowing that they helped someone start a family, but sizable payments are raising controversy. More The Consumer Columns » Oklahoma Chides Insurer in Medicare Marketing Case Some agents for Humana have enrolled Medicare recipients in products that “they did not understand and did not want,” an official said. An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Some are questioning whether Oscar Pistorius’s prosthetic legs give him an unfair advantage over other sprinters. Q & A : Two Kinds of Oxygen Vital Signs: Patterns: Moderate Drinking May Ease Effects of ‘Bad’ Cholesterol Vital Signs: Nutrition: A Cardiovascular Argument for Eating Whole Grains Obama Says He’d Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest In Corzine’s Recovery, Doctors Cite Grit and Luck Westchester to Pay Woman in False TB Scare John K. Lattimer, Urologist of Varied Expertise, Dies at 92 In New Hampshire, Soft Sell Eases Vaccine Fears Doctor Grafted Skin to Aid Drug Dealers, U.S. Authorities Say Electric Pulses, Instead of Shocks, Can Help Heart Patients Some parents of children with Down syndrome want prospective parents to know the positive side of raising a child with the genetic condition. : Going Against the Flow A birth control pill designed to eliminate the monthly period may hit the market soon. : Choosing Hip Resurfacing Keith McDonald underwent hip resurfacing surgery, a newer alternative to total hip replacement. Dairy Council to End Ad Campaign That Linked Drinking Milk With Weight Loss The Yoga Therapist Will See You Now Passage of Drug Safety Bill Was Common Goal for Two Very Different Senators Senate Approves Tighter Policing of Drug Makers MENTAL HEALTH & BEHAVIOR» Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry’s Role Study Suggests Meditation Can Help Train Attention HPV Vaccine: Few Risks, Many Benefits By JANE E. BRODY Many parents remain wary about using the HPV vaccine for the girls and young women it was meant to protect. The Claim: Darker Skin Protects Against Skin Cancer People with darker skin get deeper tans and burn less quickly than other people, but does that mean better protection against skin cancer? Jane Brody, "Personal Health" columnist, discusses the latest health news. Genetic Testing + Abortion = ??? The right to choose, and the right to screen for sex, cancer genes or smarts. A user's guide to diagnostic tests. What you need to know about procedures and diagnoses for six major diseases. Go to Special Section » News from AP &#x00bb; Study: Vitamins Tied to Prostate Cancer Blood Pressure Rising Around the Globe Boy Receives New Heart at Ark. Hospital Researchers Examine Crystal Meth Effects Blood Pressure Rising Around the Globe FDA: FluMist Effective for Kids Under 5 Browse All Health Topics Select a Health Topic Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS) Dietary Supplements and Herbal Remedies Food Contamination and Poisoning Human Papilloma Virus (HPV) Mental Health and Disorders Post Traumatic Stress Disorder SARS (Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome) Seasonal Affective Disorder (SAD) Sexually Transmitted Diseases (STDs) Sudden Infant Death Syndrome Suicides and Suicide Attempts Health & Fitness Tools What's your score? » Calorie Calculator for Goal Weight What's your limit? » MOST POPULAR - HEALTH Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Vital Signs: Nutrition: A Cardiovascular Argument for Eating Whole Grains The Consumer: As Demand for Donor Eggs Soars, High Prices Stir Ethical Concerns Personal Health: HPV Vaccine: Few Risks, Many Benefits Vital Signs: Patterns: Moderate Drinking May Ease Effects of &#8216;Bad&#8217; Cholesterol Really?: The Claim: Darker Skin Protects Against Skin Cancer Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role Study Suggests Meditation Can Help Train Attention Jury Is Still Out on Gluten, the Latest Dietary Villain Go to Complete List » Psychiatrists, Troubled Children and Drug Industry's Role In New Hampshire, Soft Sell Eases Vaccine Fears Patterns: Moderate Drinking May Ease Effects of â€˜Bad' Cholesterol Electric Pulses, Instead of Shocks, Can Help Heart Patients Go to Complete List » Everything you need to know about heart disease Hip resurfacing: is it right for you? The changing attitudes towards "chemo brain" Treating the awkward years Be Prepared. For Your Major Purchase. What movie should you see? What’s new on Broadway? Photos, fine art, books and more. Post a job online today! Buy, sell or rent a home. The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/health/15cons.html	Egg Donation - Infertility - Invitro Fertilization - As Demand for Donor Eggs Soars, High Prices Stir Ethical Concerns - New York Times Mental Health & Behavior As Demand for Donor Eggs Soars, High Prices Stir Ethical Concerns Sign In to E-Mail or Save This By RONI CARYN RABIN Published: May 15, 2007 Samantha Carolan was 23 and fresh out of graduate school when she decided to donate eggs to an infertile couple. Ms. Carolan concedes that she would never have done it if not for the money, $7,000 that she used to pay off some Skip to next paragraph More The Consumer Columns » She has since had a second egg extraction, for which she was paid $8,000, and she is planning a third before taking a break. “The first time, it’s frightening,” said Ms. Carolan, now 24, of Winfield Park, N.J. “It is surgery, and I don’t think I would have done it without compensation. But I had very limited pain, and it was a great experience for me. I would have done it the second time for less money or even no compensation.” Though many egg donors derive great satisfaction from knowing that they helped someone start a family, the price of eggs has soared in recent years as demand has increased, and the sizable payments raise controversy. A survey published this month in the journal Fertility and Sterility, “What Is Happening to the Price of Eggs?” found that the national average compensation for donors was $4,217. At least one center told the authors of the paper that it paid $15,000. Many centers did not respond. Though laws prohibit the sale of transplant organs, sperm donors have always received small payments, and prospective parents in the United States are allowed to compensate women for their far greater expenditure of time and energy. (Many countries, including Canada and Britain, do prohibit payments to egg donors.) The American Society for Reproductive Medicine considers compensation of $5,000 or more to “require justification” and sums exceeding $10,000 “beyond what is appropriate.” Meanwhile, advertisements recruiting students from elite universities to donate promise tens of thousands of dollars, and donor agencies have sprung up, appealing to would-be parents with online videos and photo galleries of donors. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention , 5,767 babies were born in 2003 from donor eggs; the number of actual egg donations is probably much higher, however, because the success rate is fairly low. Ethicists and some women’s health advocates worry that lucrative payments are enticing young women with credit-card debt and steep tuition bills to sell eggs without seriously evaluating the risks. “The real issue is whether the money can cloud someone’s judgment,” said Josephine Johnston, an associate for law and bioethics at the Hastings Center, a research group in Garrison, N.Y., that specializes in medical ethics. She does not oppose compensation, but she does worry about high prices. “We hear about egg donors being paid enormous amounts of money, $50,000 or $60,000,” Ms. Johnston said. “How much is that person actually giving informed consent about the medical procedure and really listening and thinking as it’s being described and its risks are explained?” Adding to the debate was a proposal by lawmakers in Maryland to ban payments for eggs. Proponents of compensation say if payments are lowered or eliminated, the supply of eggs will dwindle or dry up. “Women aren’t exactly lining up to be donors,” said Dr. Mark Sauer, director of the Center for Women’s Reproductive Care at the Columbia University Medical Center . “There are a lot more recipients than donors.” Part of the problem is that the risks of donation have not been thoroughly studied. Although the consensus among most reproductive endocrinologists is that extraction is safe, five deaths have been reported in Britain. There are enough unanswered questions that researchers have promised not to pay for eggs. “One of the most striking facts about in vitro fertilization is just how little is known with certainty about the long-term health outcomes for the women who undergo the procedure,” a recent report by the The 2005 guidelines of the National Academy of Sciences for human embryonic stem cell research discourage paying for eggs for research. The California Institute for Regenerative Medicine reimburses women only for out-of-pocket expenses like lost wages or cab fare. “As a public agency, we felt we shouldn’t be putting money on the table that might induce someone to take a risk,” said Geoffrey Lomax, senior officer for medical and ethical standards at the institute. So far, women have not come forward to give away eggs for research. “I just completed an outreach initiative to 21 institutions across the state that we’ve funded,” Dr. Lomax said. “No one has had an egg donated specifically for research.” The reluctance is understandable. The process of egg extraction is time consuming, and it is not comfortable. For some women, it can be painful. A woman first has to take medications to stop her menstrual cycle and then daily hormone injections for several weeks to stimulate her ovaries to produce a crop of mature eggs at once. The drugs may cause bloating, weight gain, moodiness and irritability, and there is a risk of a rare condition called ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome that can cause life-threatening complications, blood clots and kidney failure. The egg extraction itself is a surgical procedure in which a thin needle is inserted through the vagina into the ovary to retrieve the eggs and liquid from the follicles. Risks include adverse responses to , infection, bleeding or the inadvertent puncture of an organ. It is the long-term risks, both physical and psychological, that are harder to assess. Questions have been raised about whether extraction may jeopardize the donor’s fertility, and critics worry about the potential psychological harm to a donor of eggs as a young woman who later finds that she is unable to have children. And since egg donors go through much the same process as women trying to conceive in vitro, there are concerns that they may be prone to the higher rates of certain cancers that some studies have found among infertility patients. Still, said Dr. James A. Grifo, director of the division of reproductive endocrinology at the New York University School of Medicine, “There is no credible evidence of long-lasting effects or health consequences down the line.” That does not necessarily mean that the procedures are safe. “There’s no health-outcome data collected by anybody other than some voluntary reporting, and there’s no postmarket testing on how these drugs are being used,” said Susan Berke Fogel, co-founder of the Pro-Choice Alliance for Responsible Research, a project of the Public Health Institute in Oakland, Calif. In a recent article in The New England Journal of Medicine, a Harvard Business School professor said the controversy over the price of eggs was obscuring questions of women’s health. The author, Debora L. Spar, an economist who wrote “The Baby Business” last year, calls for more studies of the drugs being used, more long-term follow-up of donors and federal regulations to ensure proper informed consent. When Ms. Carolan went to donate, the short-term risks were described to her in detail, but she said she did not recall any mention of possible long-term risks. Her family opposed her decision because they worried about her health, she said, and her friends did not understand. “They all think I’m crazy,” she said. “If the topic comes up, and I tell friends I’ve done it, they’re like: ‘Why? Oh my God, aren’t you afraid you have a baby out there?’ They’re so stunned and shocked.” Then she tells them how much she was paid. “And then they go, ‘O.K., I understand now, that’s cool,’ ” she said. “People understand the money.” Next Article in Health (2 of 8) &#x00bb; Get early access to articles from this Sunday's Times. Sign up for TimesSelect free for 14 days. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Study of Mice Reproduction Discovers Egg Regeneration Thawed Ovary Tissue Yields Healthy Embryo Studies Aim to Preserve Fertility of Women in Chemotherapy Ballerina's Ovarian Tissue Transplant Gives Hope to Other Young Women Facing Infertility Next Article in Health (2 of 8) &#x00bb; Everything you need to know about heart disease Hip resurfacing: is it right for you? The changing attitudes towards "chemo brain" Treating the awkward years N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/health/15cons.html	Egg Donation - Infertility - Invitro Fertilization - As Demand for Donor Eggs Soars, High Prices Stir Ethical Concerns - New York Times Mental Health & Behavior As Demand for Donor Eggs Soars, High Prices Stir Ethical Concerns Sign In to E-Mail or Save This By RONI CARYN RABIN Published: May 15, 2007 Samantha Carolan was 23 and fresh out of graduate school when she decided to donate eggs to an infertile couple. Ms. Carolan concedes that she would never have done it if not for the money, $7,000 that she used to pay off some Skip to next paragraph More The Consumer Columns » She has since had a second egg extraction, for which she was paid $8,000, and she is planning a third before taking a break. “The first time, it’s frightening,” said Ms. Carolan, now 24, of Winfield Park, N.J. “It is surgery, and I don’t think I would have done it without compensation. But I had very limited pain, and it was a great experience for me. I would have done it the second time for less money or even no compensation.” Though many egg donors derive great satisfaction from knowing that they helped someone start a family, the price of eggs has soared in recent years as demand has increased, and the sizable payments raise controversy. A survey published this month in the journal Fertility and Sterility, “What Is Happening to the Price of Eggs?” found that the national average compensation for donors was $4,217. At least one center told the authors of the paper that it paid $15,000. Many centers did not respond. Though laws prohibit the sale of transplant organs, sperm donors have always received small payments, and prospective parents in the United States are allowed to compensate women for their far greater expenditure of time and energy. (Many countries, including Canada and Britain, do prohibit payments to egg donors.) The American Society for Reproductive Medicine considers compensation of $5,000 or more to “require justification” and sums exceeding $10,000 “beyond what is appropriate.” Meanwhile, advertisements recruiting students from elite universities to donate promise tens of thousands of dollars, and donor agencies have sprung up, appealing to would-be parents with online videos and photo galleries of donors. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention , 5,767 babies were born in 2003 from donor eggs; the number of actual egg donations is probably much higher, however, because the success rate is fairly low. Ethicists and some women’s health advocates worry that lucrative payments are enticing young women with credit-card debt and steep tuition bills to sell eggs without seriously evaluating the risks. “The real issue is whether the money can cloud someone’s judgment,” said Josephine Johnston, an associate for law and bioethics at the Hastings Center, a research group in Garrison, N.Y., that specializes in medical ethics. She does not oppose compensation, but she does worry about high prices. “We hear about egg donors being paid enormous amounts of money, $50,000 or $60,000,” Ms. Johnston said. “How much is that person actually giving informed consent about the medical procedure and really listening and thinking as it’s being described and its risks are explained?” Adding to the debate was a proposal by lawmakers in Maryland to ban payments for eggs. Proponents of compensation say if payments are lowered or eliminated, the supply of eggs will dwindle or dry up. “Women aren’t exactly lining up to be donors,” said Dr. Mark Sauer, director of the Center for Women’s Reproductive Care at the Columbia University Medical Center . “There are a lot more recipients than donors.” Part of the problem is that the risks of donation have not been thoroughly studied. Although the consensus among most reproductive endocrinologists is that extraction is safe, five deaths have been reported in Britain. There are enough unanswered questions that researchers have promised not to pay for eggs. “One of the most striking facts about in vitro fertilization is just how little is known with certainty about the long-term health outcomes for the women who undergo the procedure,” a recent report by the The 2005 guidelines of the National Academy of Sciences for human embryonic stem cell research discourage paying for eggs for research. The California Institute for Regenerative Medicine reimburses women only for out-of-pocket expenses like lost wages or cab fare. “As a public agency, we felt we shouldn’t be putting money on the table that might induce someone to take a risk,” said Geoffrey Lomax, senior officer for medical and ethical standards at the institute. So far, women have not come forward to give away eggs for research. “I just completed an outreach initiative to 21 institutions across the state that we’ve funded,” Dr. Lomax said. “No one has had an egg donated specifically for research.” The reluctance is understandable. The process of egg extraction is time consuming, and it is not comfortable. For some women, it can be painful. A woman first has to take medications to stop her menstrual cycle and then daily hormone injections for several weeks to stimulate her ovaries to produce a crop of mature eggs at once. The drugs may cause bloating, weight gain, moodiness and irritability, and there is a risk of a rare condition called ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome that can cause life-threatening complications, blood clots and kidney failure. The egg extraction itself is a surgical procedure in which a thin needle is inserted through the vagina into the ovary to retrieve the eggs and liquid from the follicles. Risks include adverse responses to , infection, bleeding or the inadvertent puncture of an organ. It is the long-term risks, both physical and psychological, that are harder to assess. Questions have been raised about whether extraction may jeopardize the donor’s fertility, and critics worry about the potential psychological harm to a donor of eggs as a young woman who later finds that she is unable to have children. And since egg donors go through much the same process as women trying to conceive in vitro, there are concerns that they may be prone to the higher rates of certain cancers that some studies have found among infertility patients. Still, said Dr. James A. Grifo, director of the division of reproductive endocrinology at the New York University School of Medicine, “There is no credible evidence of long-lasting effects or health consequences down the line.” That does not necessarily mean that the procedures are safe. “There’s no health-outcome data collected by anybody other than some voluntary reporting, and there’s no postmarket testing on how these drugs are being used,” said Susan Berke Fogel, co-founder of the Pro-Choice Alliance for Responsible Research, a project of the Public Health Institute in Oakland, Calif. In a recent article in The New England Journal of Medicine, a Harvard Business School professor said the controversy over the price of eggs was obscuring questions of women’s health. The author, Debora L. Spar, an economist who wrote “The Baby Business” last year, calls for more studies of the drugs being used, more long-term follow-up of donors and federal regulations to ensure proper informed consent. When Ms. Carolan went to donate, the short-term risks were described to her in detail, but she said she did not recall any mention of possible long-term risks. Her family opposed her decision because they worried about her health, she said, and her friends did not understand. “They all think I’m crazy,” she said. “If the topic comes up, and I tell friends I’ve done it, they’re like: ‘Why? Oh my God, aren’t you afraid you have a baby out there?’ They’re so stunned and shocked.” Then she tells them how much she was paid. “And then they go, ‘O.K., I understand now, that’s cool,’ ” she said. “People understand the money.” Next Article in Health (2 of 8) &#x00bb; Get early access to articles from this Sunday's Times. Sign up for TimesSelect free for 14 days. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Study of Mice Reproduction Discovers Egg Regeneration Thawed Ovary Tissue Yields Healthy Embryo Studies Aim to Preserve Fertility of Women in Chemotherapy Ballerina's Ovarian Tissue Transplant Gives Hope to Other Young Women Facing Infertility Next Article in Health (2 of 8) &#x00bb; Everything you need to know about heart disease Hip resurfacing: is it right for you? The changing attitudes towards "chemo brain" Treating the awkward years N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/health/15brod.html	Cervical Cancer Vaccine - HPV - Jane Brody - New York Times Mental Health & Behavior HPV Vaccine: Few Risks, Many Benefits Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 15, 2007 What is it that some parents don’t understand about the HPV vaccine, licensed last summer in hopes of preventing most cases of genital warts and cervical Skip to next paragraph , or HPV, are the most common ¶That there is no treatment for HPV infections? ¶That cervical cancer is the most serious sexually transmitted disease caused by this virus? ¶That 70 percent of cases of cervical cancer arise because of two variants of the virus that the new vaccine protects against? ¶ That 90 percent of genital warts cases are caused by two other variants of the virus that are countered by the vaccine? ¶That most people infected with HPV do not know it, yet can transmit the virus to an unsuspecting sexual partner? ¶That 20 percent of American girls 14 to 19 are infected, and the vaccine works only if administered before women contract the viral variants it is intended to prevent? Despite these facts, the vaccine, sold by Merck as Gardasil, has been mired in controversy, and many parents remain wary about using it for the girls and young women it was meant to protect. Are the Objections Valid? One commonly voiced thought is that immunizing young girls against HPV will encourage promiscuity and that the message to these youngsters should be abstinence before marriage and monogamy after. But the abstinence message is rarely effective. Half of all girls become sexually active before graduating from high school. For some girls and women, sexual behavior occurs against their will, through rape, incest and date rape. Why would this vaccine give girls license to be sexually indulgent? It protects against only one sexually transmitted problem, and there are so many others, including and, of course, unwanted Another concern involves long-term safety. How do we know this vaccine will not eventually cause other problems like autoimmune or neurological disorders or lose its protective powers or foster the dominance of other HPV variants? Actually, we don’t. But we do have at least five years of safety data that include no hints of long-term risks or waning effectiveness. But if the vaccine should begin to lose potency over time, that could easily be remedied by a booster shot. In response to suggestions of mandatory HPV for all girls entering high school, opponents have objected to “forcing” therapy on healthy girls under the presumption that future behavior might result in a disease. This is exactly the principle on which every form of immunization is based. Not everyone contracted before the advent of mandatory vaccines to protect every child. We vaccinate the masses, causing herd immunity, to protect the relatively few who would otherwise become ill and suffer devastating consequences. Finally, objections have been raised about costs. This vaccine is not cheap. Each dose costs $120, or $360 for the three doses needed for full protection, far more than any other commonly used vaccine. If a booster shot is needed later, that could mean another $120. If the vaccine is made mandatory, states might have to pay for immunizing girls not covered by insurance. Still, HPV infections are far more costly. As noted in the March issue of The American Journal of Obstetrics and Gynecology: “The annual burden of cervical HPV-related disease ranges from $2.25 billion to $4.6 billion in the United States. The annual burden of cervical cancer ranges from $181.5 million to $363 million.” This is not to mention the physical and emotional costs of cervical cancer to affected women, most of whom can no longer have children and some of whom die of the disease. An estimated 20 million Americans are infected with HPV, and 6.2 percent of girls 15 to 19 become infected each year. All told, more than six million new HPV infections occur annually, 74 percent of them in people 15 to 24. Human papillomaviruses are ubiquitous, and HPV infections are more the norm than the exception. At least half of sexually active men and women acquire genital HPV infections at some point in their lives. A recent estimate suggests that by age 50, 80 percent of women will have acquired genital HPV. Not all HPV infections would be prevented by the new vaccine. There are about 30 variants of the virus that commonly infect men and women. Although the vaccine prevents only four, these four are critically important, because they account for vast majorities of cases of both genital warts and cervical cancer. Still, because 30 percent of cervical cancers are because of HPV variants not included in the vaccine, even if a woman is fully immunized, she still needs regular Pap smears. Next Article in Health (3 of 8) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. In New Hampshire, Soft Sell Eases Vaccine Fears SECOND OPINION; A Vital Discussion, Clouded Texas Is First To Require Cancer Shots For Schoolgirls Human Papilloma Virus (HPV) Next Article in Health (3 of 8) &#x00bb; Everything you need to know about heart disease Hip resurfacing: is it right for you? The changing attitudes towards "chemo brain" Treating the awkward years N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/health/15brod.html	Cervical Cancer Vaccine - HPV - Jane Brody - New York Times Mental Health & Behavior HPV Vaccine: Few Risks, Many Benefits Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 15, 2007 What is it that some parents don’t understand about the HPV vaccine, licensed last summer in hopes of preventing most cases of genital warts and cervical Skip to next paragraph , or HPV, are the most common ¶That there is no treatment for HPV infections? ¶That cervical cancer is the most serious sexually transmitted disease caused by this virus? ¶That 70 percent of cases of cervical cancer arise because of two variants of the virus that the new vaccine protects against? ¶ That 90 percent of genital warts cases are caused by two other variants of the virus that are countered by the vaccine? ¶That most people infected with HPV do not know it, yet can transmit the virus to an unsuspecting sexual partner? ¶That 20 percent of American girls 14 to 19 are infected, and the vaccine works only if administered before women contract the viral variants it is intended to prevent? Despite these facts, the vaccine, sold by Merck as Gardasil, has been mired in controversy, and many parents remain wary about using it for the girls and young women it was meant to protect. Are the Objections Valid? One commonly voiced thought is that immunizing young girls against HPV will encourage promiscuity and that the message to these youngsters should be abstinence before marriage and monogamy after. But the abstinence message is rarely effective. Half of all girls become sexually active before graduating from high school. For some girls and women, sexual behavior occurs against their will, through rape, incest and date rape. Why would this vaccine give girls license to be sexually indulgent? It protects against only one sexually transmitted problem, and there are so many others, including and, of course, unwanted Another concern involves long-term safety. How do we know this vaccine will not eventually cause other problems like autoimmune or neurological disorders or lose its protective powers or foster the dominance of other HPV variants? Actually, we don’t. But we do have at least five years of safety data that include no hints of long-term risks or waning effectiveness. But if the vaccine should begin to lose potency over time, that could easily be remedied by a booster shot. In response to suggestions of mandatory HPV for all girls entering high school, opponents have objected to “forcing” therapy on healthy girls under the presumption that future behavior might result in a disease. This is exactly the principle on which every form of immunization is based. Not everyone contracted before the advent of mandatory vaccines to protect every child. We vaccinate the masses, causing herd immunity, to protect the relatively few who would otherwise become ill and suffer devastating consequences. Finally, objections have been raised about costs. This vaccine is not cheap. Each dose costs $120, or $360 for the three doses needed for full protection, far more than any other commonly used vaccine. If a booster shot is needed later, that could mean another $120. If the vaccine is made mandatory, states might have to pay for immunizing girls not covered by insurance. Still, HPV infections are far more costly. As noted in the March issue of The American Journal of Obstetrics and Gynecology: “The annual burden of cervical HPV-related disease ranges from $2.25 billion to $4.6 billion in the United States. The annual burden of cervical cancer ranges from $181.5 million to $363 million.” This is not to mention the physical and emotional costs of cervical cancer to affected women, most of whom can no longer have children and some of whom die of the disease. An estimated 20 million Americans are infected with HPV, and 6.2 percent of girls 15 to 19 become infected each year. All told, more than six million new HPV infections occur annually, 74 percent of them in people 15 to 24. Human papillomaviruses are ubiquitous, and HPV infections are more the norm than the exception. At least half of sexually active men and women acquire genital HPV infections at some point in their lives. A recent estimate suggests that by age 50, 80 percent of women will have acquired genital HPV. Not all HPV infections would be prevented by the new vaccine. There are about 30 variants of the virus that commonly infect men and women. Although the vaccine prevents only four, these four are critically important, because they account for vast majorities of cases of both genital warts and cervical cancer. Still, because 30 percent of cervical cancers are because of HPV variants not included in the vaccine, even if a woman is fully immunized, she still needs regular Pap smears. Next Article in Health (3 of 8) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. In New Hampshire, Soft Sell Eases Vaccine Fears SECOND OPINION; A Vital Discussion, Clouded Texas Is First To Require Cancer Shots For Schoolgirls Human Papilloma Virus (HPV) Next Article in Health (3 of 8) &#x00bb; Everything you need to know about heart disease Hip resurfacing: is it right for you? The changing attitudes towards "chemo brain" Treating the awkward years N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/health/15real.html?ex=1336881600&en=307c0e4aea4db173&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	The Claim: Darker Skin Protects Against Skin Cancer - New York Times Mental Health & Behavior The Claim: Darker Skin Protects Against Skin Cancer Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 15, 2007 Skip to next paragraph It is well known that people with darker skin get deeper tans and burn less quickly than other people. But does that mean better protection against skin The answer is not clear-cut. Although darker-skinned people face a lower risk of skin cancer, they are more likely to develop more aggressive forms of the disease and more likely to die from it. A large part of the problem is a false sense of security. Dark skin has higher amounts of melanin that can filter as much as twice the amount of ultraviolet as paler skin. But that protection still falls short of what doctors recommend when using sunscreen: a skin protection factor, or SPF, of 15 or more. And because many people with dark skin believe that it provides complete immunity, experts say, they often overlook early warning signs. A 2006 study in The Archives of Internal Medicine looked at more than 1,500 people with melanoma. It found that whites were far less likely to have late-stage melanoma than blacks, Hispanics, American Indians and Asians. On average, whites also had a greater five-year survival rate (90 percent) than the others (less than 80 percent). Another study last year in The Archives of Dermatology looked at 1,700 cases of melanoma reported in Florida over a five-year period and had similar results. People with darker skin tones have a lower risk of skin cancer, but are more likely to die from it. Next Article in Health (4 of 8) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Next Article in Health (4 of 8) &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » Everything you need to know about heart disease Hip resurfacing: is it right for you? The changing attitudes towards "chemo brain" Treating the awkward years N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/health/15real.html?ex=1336881600&en=307c0e4aea4db173&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	The Claim: Darker Skin Protects Against Skin Cancer - New York Times Mental Health & Behavior The Claim: Darker Skin Protects Against Skin Cancer Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 15, 2007 Skip to next paragraph It is well known that people with darker skin get deeper tans and burn less quickly than other people. But does that mean better protection against skin The answer is not clear-cut. Although darker-skinned people face a lower risk of skin cancer, they are more likely to develop more aggressive forms of the disease and more likely to die from it. A large part of the problem is a false sense of security. Dark skin has higher amounts of melanin that can filter as much as twice the amount of ultraviolet as paler skin. But that protection still falls short of what doctors recommend when using sunscreen: a skin protection factor, or SPF, of 15 or more. And because many people with dark skin believe that it provides complete immunity, experts say, they often overlook early warning signs. A 2006 study in The Archives of Internal Medicine looked at more than 1,500 people with melanoma. It found that whites were far less likely to have late-stage melanoma than blacks, Hispanics, American Indians and Asians. On average, whites also had a greater five-year survival rate (90 percent) than the others (less than 80 percent). Another study last year in The Archives of Dermatology looked at 1,700 cases of melanoma reported in Florida over a five-year period and had similar results. People with darker skin tones have a lower risk of skin cancer, but are more likely to die from it. Next Article in Health (4 of 8) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Next Article in Health (4 of 8) &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » Everything you need to know about heart disease Hip resurfacing: is it right for you? The changing attitudes towards "chemo brain" Treating the awkward years N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/health/15cons.html?ex=1336881600&en=e28865075dcd9ed6&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Egg Donation - Infertility - Invitro Fertilization - As Demand for Donor Eggs Soars, High Prices Stir Ethical Concerns - New York Times Mental Health & Behavior As Demand for Donor Eggs Soars, High Prices Stir Ethical Concerns Sign In to E-Mail or Save This By RONI CARYN RABIN Published: May 15, 2007 Samantha Carolan was 23 and fresh out of graduate school when she decided to donate eggs to an infertile couple. Ms. Carolan concedes that she would never have done it if not for the money, $7,000 that she used to pay off some Skip to next paragraph More The Consumer Columns » She has since had a second egg extraction, for which she was paid $8,000, and she is planning a third before taking a break. “The first time, it’s frightening,” said Ms. Carolan, now 24, of Winfield Park, N.J. “It is surgery, and I don’t think I would have done it without compensation. But I had very limited pain, and it was a great experience for me. I would have done it the second time for less money or even no compensation.” Though many egg donors derive great satisfaction from knowing that they helped someone start a family, the price of eggs has soared in recent years as demand has increased, and the sizable payments raise controversy. A survey published this month in the journal Fertility and Sterility, “What Is Happening to the Price of Eggs?” found that the national average compensation for donors was $4,217. At least one center told the authors of the paper that it paid $15,000. Many centers did not respond. Though laws prohibit the sale of transplant organs, sperm donors have always received small payments, and prospective parents in the United States are allowed to compensate women for their far greater expenditure of time and energy. (Many countries, including Canada and Britain, do prohibit payments to egg donors.) The American Society for Reproductive Medicine considers compensation of $5,000 or more to “require justification” and sums exceeding $10,000 “beyond what is appropriate.” Meanwhile, advertisements recruiting students from elite universities to donate promise tens of thousands of dollars, and donor agencies have sprung up, appealing to would-be parents with online videos and photo galleries of donors. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention , 5,767 babies were born in 2003 from donor eggs; the number of actual egg donations is probably much higher, however, because the success rate is fairly low. Ethicists and some women’s health advocates worry that lucrative payments are enticing young women with credit-card debt and steep tuition bills to sell eggs without seriously evaluating the risks. “The real issue is whether the money can cloud someone’s judgment,” said Josephine Johnston, an associate for law and bioethics at the Hastings Center, a research group in Garrison, N.Y., that specializes in medical ethics. She does not oppose compensation, but she does worry about high prices. “We hear about egg donors being paid enormous amounts of money, $50,000 or $60,000,” Ms. Johnston said. “How much is that person actually giving informed consent about the medical procedure and really listening and thinking as it’s being described and its risks are explained?” Adding to the debate was a proposal by lawmakers in Maryland to ban payments for eggs. Proponents of compensation say if payments are lowered or eliminated, the supply of eggs will dwindle or dry up. “Women aren’t exactly lining up to be donors,” said Dr. Mark Sauer, director of the Center for Women’s Reproductive Care at the Columbia University Medical Center . “There are a lot more recipients than donors.” Part of the problem is that the risks of donation have not been thoroughly studied. Although the consensus among most reproductive endocrinologists is that extraction is safe, five deaths have been reported in Britain. There are enough unanswered questions that researchers have promised not to pay for eggs. “One of the most striking facts about in vitro fertilization is just how little is known with certainty about the long-term health outcomes for the women who undergo the procedure,” a recent report by the The 2005 guidelines of the National Academy of Sciences for human embryonic stem cell research discourage paying for eggs for research. The California Institute for Regenerative Medicine reimburses women only for out-of-pocket expenses like lost wages or cab fare. “As a public agency, we felt we shouldn’t be putting money on the table that might induce someone to take a risk,” said Geoffrey Lomax, senior officer for medical and ethical standards at the institute. So far, women have not come forward to give away eggs for research. “I just completed an outreach initiative to 21 institutions across the state that we’ve funded,” Dr. Lomax said. “No one has had an egg donated specifically for research.” The reluctance is understandable. The process of egg extraction is time consuming, and it is not comfortable. For some women, it can be painful. A woman first has to take medications to stop her menstrual cycle and then daily hormone injections for several weeks to stimulate her ovaries to produce a crop of mature eggs at once. The drugs may cause bloating, weight gain, moodiness and irritability, and there is a risk of a rare condition called ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome that can cause life-threatening complications, blood clots and kidney failure. The egg extraction itself is a surgical procedure in which a thin needle is inserted through the vagina into the ovary to retrieve the eggs and liquid from the follicles. Risks include adverse responses to , infection, bleeding or the inadvertent puncture of an organ. It is the long-term risks, both physical and psychological, that are harder to assess. Questions have been raised about whether extraction may jeopardize the donor’s fertility, and critics worry about the potential psychological harm to a donor of eggs as a young woman who later finds that she is unable to have children. And since egg donors go through much the same process as women trying to conceive in vitro, there are concerns that they may be prone to the higher rates of certain cancers that some studies have found among infertility patients. Still, said Dr. James A. Grifo, director of the division of reproductive endocrinology at the New York University School of Medicine, “There is no credible evidence of long-lasting effects or health consequences down the line.” That does not necessarily mean that the procedures are safe. “There’s no health-outcome data collected by anybody other than some voluntary reporting, and there’s no postmarket testing on how these drugs are being used,” said Susan Berke Fogel, co-founder of the Pro-Choice Alliance for Responsible Research, a project of the Public Health Institute in Oakland, Calif. In a recent article in The New England Journal of Medicine, a Harvard Business School professor said the controversy over the price of eggs was obscuring questions of women’s health. The author, Debora L. Spar, an economist who wrote “The Baby Business” last year, calls for more studies of the drugs being used, more long-term follow-up of donors and federal regulations to ensure proper informed consent. When Ms. Carolan went to donate, the short-term risks were described to her in detail, but she said she did not recall any mention of possible long-term risks. Her family opposed her decision because they worried about her health, she said, and her friends did not understand. “They all think I’m crazy,” she said. “If the topic comes up, and I tell friends I’ve done it, they’re like: ‘Why? Oh my God, aren’t you afraid you have a baby out there?’ They’re so stunned and shocked.” Then she tells them how much she was paid. “And then they go, ‘O.K., I understand now, that’s cool,’ ” she said. “People understand the money.” Next Article in Health (2 of 8) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Study of Mice Reproduction Discovers Egg Regeneration Thawed Ovary Tissue Yields Healthy Embryo Studies Aim to Preserve Fertility of Women in Chemotherapy Ballerina's Ovarian Tissue Transplant Gives Hope to Other Young Women Facing Infertility Next Article in Health (2 of 8) &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » Everything you need to know about heart disease Hip resurfacing: is it right for you? The changing attitudes towards "chemo brain" Treating the awkward years N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/health/15cons.html?ex=1336881600&en=e28865075dcd9ed6&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Egg Donation - Infertility - Invitro Fertilization - As Demand for Donor Eggs Soars, High Prices Stir Ethical Concerns - New York Times Mental Health & Behavior As Demand for Donor Eggs Soars, High Prices Stir Ethical Concerns Sign In to E-Mail or Save This By RONI CARYN RABIN Published: May 15, 2007 Samantha Carolan was 23 and fresh out of graduate school when she decided to donate eggs to an infertile couple. Ms. Carolan concedes that she would never have done it if not for the money, $7,000 that she used to pay off some Skip to next paragraph More The Consumer Columns » She has since had a second egg extraction, for which she was paid $8,000, and she is planning a third before taking a break. “The first time, it’s frightening,” said Ms. Carolan, now 24, of Winfield Park, N.J. “It is surgery, and I don’t think I would have done it without compensation. But I had very limited pain, and it was a great experience for me. I would have done it the second time for less money or even no compensation.” Though many egg donors derive great satisfaction from knowing that they helped someone start a family, the price of eggs has soared in recent years as demand has increased, and the sizable payments raise controversy. A survey published this month in the journal Fertility and Sterility, “What Is Happening to the Price of Eggs?” found that the national average compensation for donors was $4,217. At least one center told the authors of the paper that it paid $15,000. Many centers did not respond. Though laws prohibit the sale of transplant organs, sperm donors have always received small payments, and prospective parents in the United States are allowed to compensate women for their far greater expenditure of time and energy. (Many countries, including Canada and Britain, do prohibit payments to egg donors.) The American Society for Reproductive Medicine considers compensation of $5,000 or more to “require justification” and sums exceeding $10,000 “beyond what is appropriate.” Meanwhile, advertisements recruiting students from elite universities to donate promise tens of thousands of dollars, and donor agencies have sprung up, appealing to would-be parents with online videos and photo galleries of donors. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention , 5,767 babies were born in 2003 from donor eggs; the number of actual egg donations is probably much higher, however, because the success rate is fairly low. Ethicists and some women’s health advocates worry that lucrative payments are enticing young women with credit-card debt and steep tuition bills to sell eggs without seriously evaluating the risks. “The real issue is whether the money can cloud someone’s judgment,” said Josephine Johnston, an associate for law and bioethics at the Hastings Center, a research group in Garrison, N.Y., that specializes in medical ethics. She does not oppose compensation, but she does worry about high prices. “We hear about egg donors being paid enormous amounts of money, $50,000 or $60,000,” Ms. Johnston said. “How much is that person actually giving informed consent about the medical procedure and really listening and thinking as it’s being described and its risks are explained?” Adding to the debate was a proposal by lawmakers in Maryland to ban payments for eggs. Proponents of compensation say if payments are lowered or eliminated, the supply of eggs will dwindle or dry up. “Women aren’t exactly lining up to be donors,” said Dr. Mark Sauer, director of the Center for Women’s Reproductive Care at the Columbia University Medical Center . “There are a lot more recipients than donors.” Part of the problem is that the risks of donation have not been thoroughly studied. Although the consensus among most reproductive endocrinologists is that extraction is safe, five deaths have been reported in Britain. There are enough unanswered questions that researchers have promised not to pay for eggs. “One of the most striking facts about in vitro fertilization is just how little is known with certainty about the long-term health outcomes for the women who undergo the procedure,” a recent report by the The 2005 guidelines of the National Academy of Sciences for human embryonic stem cell research discourage paying for eggs for research. The California Institute for Regenerative Medicine reimburses women only for out-of-pocket expenses like lost wages or cab fare. “As a public agency, we felt we shouldn’t be putting money on the table that might induce someone to take a risk,” said Geoffrey Lomax, senior officer for medical and ethical standards at the institute. So far, women have not come forward to give away eggs for research. “I just completed an outreach initiative to 21 institutions across the state that we’ve funded,” Dr. Lomax said. “No one has had an egg donated specifically for research.” The reluctance is understandable. The process of egg extraction is time consuming, and it is not comfortable. For some women, it can be painful. A woman first has to take medications to stop her menstrual cycle and then daily hormone injections for several weeks to stimulate her ovaries to produce a crop of mature eggs at once. The drugs may cause bloating, weight gain, moodiness and irritability, and there is a risk of a rare condition called ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome that can cause life-threatening complications, blood clots and kidney failure. The egg extraction itself is a surgical procedure in which a thin needle is inserted through the vagina into the ovary to retrieve the eggs and liquid from the follicles. Risks include adverse responses to , infection, bleeding or the inadvertent puncture of an organ. It is the long-term risks, both physical and psychological, that are harder to assess. Questions have been raised about whether extraction may jeopardize the donor’s fertility, and critics worry about the potential psychological harm to a donor of eggs as a young woman who later finds that she is unable to have children. And since egg donors go through much the same process as women trying to conceive in vitro, there are concerns that they may be prone to the higher rates of certain cancers that some studies have found among infertility patients. Still, said Dr. James A. Grifo, director of the division of reproductive endocrinology at the New York University School of Medicine, “There is no credible evidence of long-lasting effects or health consequences down the line.” That does not necessarily mean that the procedures are safe. “There’s no health-outcome data collected by anybody other than some voluntary reporting, and there’s no postmarket testing on how these drugs are being used,” said Susan Berke Fogel, co-founder of the Pro-Choice Alliance for Responsible Research, a project of the Public Health Institute in Oakland, Calif. In a recent article in The New England Journal of Medicine, a Harvard Business School professor said the controversy over the price of eggs was obscuring questions of women’s health. The author, Debora L. Spar, an economist who wrote “The Baby Business” last year, calls for more studies of the drugs being used, more long-term follow-up of donors and federal regulations to ensure proper informed consent. When Ms. Carolan went to donate, the short-term risks were described to her in detail, but she said she did not recall any mention of possible long-term risks. Her family opposed her decision because they worried about her health, she said, and her friends did not understand. “They all think I’m crazy,” she said. “If the topic comes up, and I tell friends I’ve done it, they’re like: ‘Why? Oh my God, aren’t you afraid you have a baby out there?’ They’re so stunned and shocked.” Then she tells them how much she was paid. “And then they go, ‘O.K., I understand now, that’s cool,’ ” she said. “People understand the money.” Next Article in Health (2 of 8) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Study of Mice Reproduction Discovers Egg Regeneration Thawed Ovary Tissue Yields Healthy Embryo Studies Aim to Preserve Fertility of Women in Chemotherapy Ballerina's Ovarian Tissue Transplant Gives Hope to Other Young Women Facing Infertility Next Article in Health (2 of 8) &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » Everything you need to know about heart disease Hip resurfacing: is it right for you? The changing attitudes towards "chemo brain" Treating the awkward years N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/sports/othersports/15runner.html	An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? - New York Times An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? &#147;I don&#146;t see myself as disabled,&#148; said Oscar Pistorius, a former rugby and water polo player. &#147;There&#146;s nothing I can&#146;t do that able-bodied athletes can do.&#148; Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 15, 2007 MANCHESTER, England, May 14 — As Oscar Pistorius of South Africa crouched in the starting blocks for the 200 meters on Sunday, the small crowd turned its attention to the sprinter who calls himself the fastest man on no legs. Skip to next paragraph Do you think athletes with prosthetics should be allowed to compete with able-bodied athletes? Video: Oscar Pistorius's Victory in the T44 Men's 200 Meters Christopher Furlong/Getty Images, for The New York Times Pistorius, left, won the 200-meter race at the Paralympic World Cup. He wants to compete in the 2008 Olympics. Pistorius wants to be the first amputee runner to compete in the Olympics. But despite his ascendance, he is facing resistance from track and field’s world governing body, which is seeking to bar him on the grounds that the technology of his prosthetics may give him an unfair advantage over sprinters using their natural legs. His first strides were choppy Sunday, a necessary accommodation to sprinting on a pair of j-shaped blades made of carbon fiber and known as Cheetahs. Pistorius was born without the fibula in his lower legs and with other defects in his feet. He had both legs amputated below the knee when he was 11 months old. At 20, his coach says, he is like a five-speed engine with no second gear. Yet Pistorius is also a searing talent who has begun erasing the lines between abled and disabled, raising philosophical questions: What should an athlete look like? Where should limits be placed on technology to balance fair play with the right to compete? Would the nature of sport be altered if athletes using artificial limbs could run faster or jump higher than the best athletes using their natural limbs? Once at full speed Sunday, Pistorius handily won the 100 and 200 meters here at the Paralympic World Cup, an international competition for disabled athletes. A cold, rainy afternoon tempered his performances, but his victories came decisively and kept him aimed toward his goal of the 2008 Summer Olympics in Beijing, even though international track officials seek to block his entrance. Since March, Pistorius has delivered startling record performances for disabled athletes at 100 meters (10.91 seconds), 200 meters (21.58 seconds) and 400 meters (46.34 seconds). Those times do not meet Olympic qualifying standards for men, but the Beijing Games are still 15 months away. Already, Pistorius is fast enough that his marks would have won gold medals in equivalent women’s races at the 2004 Athens Olympics. Pistorius’s time of 46.56 in the 400 earned him a second-place finish in March against able-bodied runners at the South African national championships. This seemingly makes him a candidate for the Olympic 4x400-meter relay should South Africa qualify as one of the world’s 16 fastest teams. “I don’t see myself as disabled,” said the blond, spiky-haired Pistorius, a former rugby and water polo player who declines to park in spaces reserved for the disabled. “There’s nothing I can’t do that able-bodied athletes can do.” An Equalizer or an Edge? Still, the question persists: Do prosthetic legs simply level the playing field for Pistorius, compensating for his disability, or do they give him an inequitable edge via what some call techno-doping? Experts say there have been limited scientific studies on the biomechanics of amputee runners, especially those missing both legs. And because Pistorius lost his legs as an infant, his speed on carbon-fiber legs cannot be compared with his speed on natural legs. Track and field’s world governing body, based in Monaco and known by the initials I.A.A.F., has recently prohibited the use of technological aids like springs and wheels, disqualifying Pistorius from events that it sanctions. A final ruling is expected in August. allows governing bodies to make their own eligibility rules, though it can intervene. Since 2004, for example, transgender athletes have been allowed to compete in the Olympics. “With all due respect, we cannot accept something that provides advantages,” said Elio Locatelli of Italy, the director of development for the I.A.A.F., urging Pistorius to concentrate on the Paralympics that will follow the Olympics in Beijing. “It affects the purity of sport. Next will be another device where people can fly with something on their back.” Others have questioned the governing body’s motivation. Next Article in Sports (3 of 27) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Where Beating the Odds Is Nothing New TRACK AND FIELD; It's All in the Timing SIDELINES: A PERSONAL VICTORY; Although Disabled He's Not Unable Student Wins the Right To Race in Wheelchair Next Article in Sports (3 of 27) &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Miracle On Ice - 1980 N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/sports/othersports/15runner.html	An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? - New York Times An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? &#147;I don&#146;t see myself as disabled,&#148; said Oscar Pistorius, a former rugby and water polo player. &#147;There&#146;s nothing I can&#146;t do that able-bodied athletes can do.&#148; Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 15, 2007 MANCHESTER, England, May 14 — As Oscar Pistorius of South Africa crouched in the starting blocks for the 200 meters on Sunday, the small crowd turned its attention to the sprinter who calls himself the fastest man on no legs. Skip to next paragraph Do you think athletes with prosthetics should be allowed to compete with able-bodied athletes? Video: Oscar Pistorius's Victory in the T44 Men's 200 Meters Christopher Furlong/Getty Images, for The New York Times Pistorius, left, won the 200-meter race at the Paralympic World Cup. He wants to compete in the 2008 Olympics. Pistorius wants to be the first amputee runner to compete in the Olympics. But despite his ascendance, he is facing resistance from track and field’s world governing body, which is seeking to bar him on the grounds that the technology of his prosthetics may give him an unfair advantage over sprinters using their natural legs. His first strides were choppy Sunday, a necessary accommodation to sprinting on a pair of j-shaped blades made of carbon fiber and known as Cheetahs. Pistorius was born without the fibula in his lower legs and with other defects in his feet. He had both legs amputated below the knee when he was 11 months old. At 20, his coach says, he is like a five-speed engine with no second gear. Yet Pistorius is also a searing talent who has begun erasing the lines between abled and disabled, raising philosophical questions: What should an athlete look like? Where should limits be placed on technology to balance fair play with the right to compete? Would the nature of sport be altered if athletes using artificial limbs could run faster or jump higher than the best athletes using their natural limbs? Once at full speed Sunday, Pistorius handily won the 100 and 200 meters here at the Paralympic World Cup, an international competition for disabled athletes. A cold, rainy afternoon tempered his performances, but his victories came decisively and kept him aimed toward his goal of the 2008 Summer Olympics in Beijing, even though international track officials seek to block his entrance. Since March, Pistorius has delivered startling record performances for disabled athletes at 100 meters (10.91 seconds), 200 meters (21.58 seconds) and 400 meters (46.34 seconds). Those times do not meet Olympic qualifying standards for men, but the Beijing Games are still 15 months away. Already, Pistorius is fast enough that his marks would have won gold medals in equivalent women’s races at the 2004 Athens Olympics. Pistorius’s time of 46.56 in the 400 earned him a second-place finish in March against able-bodied runners at the South African national championships. This seemingly makes him a candidate for the Olympic 4x400-meter relay should South Africa qualify as one of the world’s 16 fastest teams. “I don’t see myself as disabled,” said the blond, spiky-haired Pistorius, a former rugby and water polo player who declines to park in spaces reserved for the disabled. “There’s nothing I can’t do that able-bodied athletes can do.” An Equalizer or an Edge? Still, the question persists: Do prosthetic legs simply level the playing field for Pistorius, compensating for his disability, or do they give him an inequitable edge via what some call techno-doping? Experts say there have been limited scientific studies on the biomechanics of amputee runners, especially those missing both legs. And because Pistorius lost his legs as an infant, his speed on carbon-fiber legs cannot be compared with his speed on natural legs. Track and field’s world governing body, based in Monaco and known by the initials I.A.A.F., has recently prohibited the use of technological aids like springs and wheels, disqualifying Pistorius from events that it sanctions. A final ruling is expected in August. allows governing bodies to make their own eligibility rules, though it can intervene. Since 2004, for example, transgender athletes have been allowed to compete in the Olympics. “With all due respect, we cannot accept something that provides advantages,” said Elio Locatelli of Italy, the director of development for the I.A.A.F., urging Pistorius to concentrate on the Paralympics that will follow the Olympics in Beijing. “It affects the purity of sport. Next will be another device where people can fly with something on their back.” Others have questioned the governing body’s motivation. Next Article in Sports (3 of 27) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Where Beating the Odds Is Nothing New TRACK AND FIELD; It's All in the Timing SIDELINES: A PERSONAL VICTORY; Although Disabled He's Not Unable Student Wins the Right To Race in Wheelchair Next Article in Sports (3 of 27) &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Miracle On Ice - 1980 N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/health/15brod.html?ex=1336881600&en=a245fcdd23d0d5ae&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Cervical Cancer Vaccine - HPV - Jane Brody - New York Times Mental Health & Behavior HPV Vaccine: Few Risks, Many Benefits Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 15, 2007 What is it that some parents don’t understand about the HPV vaccine, licensed last summer in hopes of preventing most cases of genital warts and cervical Skip to next paragraph , or HPV, are the most common ¶That there is no treatment for HPV infections? ¶That cervical cancer is the most serious sexually transmitted disease caused by this virus? ¶That 70 percent of cases of cervical cancer arise because of two variants of the virus that the new vaccine protects against? ¶ That 90 percent of genital warts cases are caused by two other variants of the virus that are countered by the vaccine? ¶That most people infected with HPV do not know it, yet can transmit the virus to an unsuspecting sexual partner? ¶That 20 percent of American girls 14 to 19 are infected, and the vaccine works only if administered before women contract the viral variants it is intended to prevent? Despite these facts, the vaccine, sold by Merck as Gardasil, has been mired in controversy, and many parents remain wary about using it for the girls and young women it was meant to protect. Are the Objections Valid? One commonly voiced thought is that immunizing young girls against HPV will encourage promiscuity and that the message to these youngsters should be abstinence before marriage and monogamy after. But the abstinence message is rarely effective. Half of all girls become sexually active before graduating from high school. For some girls and women, sexual behavior occurs against their will, through rape, incest and date rape. Why would this vaccine give girls license to be sexually indulgent? It protects against only one sexually transmitted problem, and there are so many others, including and, of course, unwanted Another concern involves long-term safety. How do we know this vaccine will not eventually cause other problems like autoimmune or neurological disorders or lose its protective powers or foster the dominance of other HPV variants? Actually, we don’t. But we do have at least five years of safety data that include no hints of long-term risks or waning effectiveness. But if the vaccine should begin to lose potency over time, that could easily be remedied by a booster shot. In response to suggestions of mandatory HPV for all girls entering high school, opponents have objected to “forcing” therapy on healthy girls under the presumption that future behavior might result in a disease. This is exactly the principle on which every form of immunization is based. Not everyone contracted before the advent of mandatory vaccines to protect every child. We vaccinate the masses, causing herd immunity, to protect the relatively few who would otherwise become ill and suffer devastating consequences. Finally, objections have been raised about costs. This vaccine is not cheap. Each dose costs $120, or $360 for the three doses needed for full protection, far more than any other commonly used vaccine. If a booster shot is needed later, that could mean another $120. If the vaccine is made mandatory, states might have to pay for immunizing girls not covered by insurance. Still, HPV infections are far more costly. As noted in the March issue of The American Journal of Obstetrics and Gynecology: “The annual burden of cervical HPV-related disease ranges from $2.25 billion to $4.6 billion in the United States. The annual burden of cervical cancer ranges from $181.5 million to $363 million.” This is not to mention the physical and emotional costs of cervical cancer to affected women, most of whom can no longer have children and some of whom die of the disease. An estimated 20 million Americans are infected with HPV, and 6.2 percent of girls 15 to 19 become infected each year. All told, more than six million new HPV infections occur annually, 74 percent of them in people 15 to 24. Human papillomaviruses are ubiquitous, and HPV infections are more the norm than the exception. At least half of sexually active men and women acquire genital HPV infections at some point in their lives. A recent estimate suggests that by age 50, 80 percent of women will have acquired genital HPV. Not all HPV infections would be prevented by the new vaccine. There are about 30 variants of the virus that commonly infect men and women. Although the vaccine prevents only four, these four are critically important, because they account for vast majorities of cases of both genital warts and cervical cancer. Still, because 30 percent of cervical cancers are because of HPV variants not included in the vaccine, even if a woman is fully immunized, she still needs regular Pap smears. Next Article in Health (3 of 8) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. In New Hampshire, Soft Sell Eases Vaccine Fears SECOND OPINION; A Vital Discussion, Clouded Texas Is First To Require Cancer Shots For Schoolgirls Human Papilloma Virus (HPV) Next Article in Health (3 of 8) &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » Everything you need to know about heart disease Hip resurfacing: is it right for you? The changing attitudes towards "chemo brain" Treating the awkward years N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/health/15brod.html?ex=1336881600&en=a245fcdd23d0d5ae&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Cervical Cancer Vaccine - HPV - Jane Brody - New York Times Mental Health & Behavior HPV Vaccine: Few Risks, Many Benefits Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 15, 2007 What is it that some parents don’t understand about the HPV vaccine, licensed last summer in hopes of preventing most cases of genital warts and cervical Skip to next paragraph , or HPV, are the most common ¶That there is no treatment for HPV infections? ¶That cervical cancer is the most serious sexually transmitted disease caused by this virus? ¶That 70 percent of cases of cervical cancer arise because of two variants of the virus that the new vaccine protects against? ¶ That 90 percent of genital warts cases are caused by two other variants of the virus that are countered by the vaccine? ¶That most people infected with HPV do not know it, yet can transmit the virus to an unsuspecting sexual partner? ¶That 20 percent of American girls 14 to 19 are infected, and the vaccine works only if administered before women contract the viral variants it is intended to prevent? Despite these facts, the vaccine, sold by Merck as Gardasil, has been mired in controversy, and many parents remain wary about using it for the girls and young women it was meant to protect. Are the Objections Valid? One commonly voiced thought is that immunizing young girls against HPV will encourage promiscuity and that the message to these youngsters should be abstinence before marriage and monogamy after. But the abstinence message is rarely effective. Half of all girls become sexually active before graduating from high school. For some girls and women, sexual behavior occurs against their will, through rape, incest and date rape. Why would this vaccine give girls license to be sexually indulgent? It protects against only one sexually transmitted problem, and there are so many others, including and, of course, unwanted Another concern involves long-term safety. How do we know this vaccine will not eventually cause other problems like autoimmune or neurological disorders or lose its protective powers or foster the dominance of other HPV variants? Actually, we don’t. But we do have at least five years of safety data that include no hints of long-term risks or waning effectiveness. But if the vaccine should begin to lose potency over time, that could easily be remedied by a booster shot. In response to suggestions of mandatory HPV for all girls entering high school, opponents have objected to “forcing” therapy on healthy girls under the presumption that future behavior might result in a disease. This is exactly the principle on which every form of immunization is based. Not everyone contracted before the advent of mandatory vaccines to protect every child. We vaccinate the masses, causing herd immunity, to protect the relatively few who would otherwise become ill and suffer devastating consequences. Finally, objections have been raised about costs. This vaccine is not cheap. Each dose costs $120, or $360 for the three doses needed for full protection, far more than any other commonly used vaccine. If a booster shot is needed later, that could mean another $120. If the vaccine is made mandatory, states might have to pay for immunizing girls not covered by insurance. Still, HPV infections are far more costly. As noted in the March issue of The American Journal of Obstetrics and Gynecology: “The annual burden of cervical HPV-related disease ranges from $2.25 billion to $4.6 billion in the United States. The annual burden of cervical cancer ranges from $181.5 million to $363 million.” This is not to mention the physical and emotional costs of cervical cancer to affected women, most of whom can no longer have children and some of whom die of the disease. An estimated 20 million Americans are infected with HPV, and 6.2 percent of girls 15 to 19 become infected each year. All told, more than six million new HPV infections occur annually, 74 percent of them in people 15 to 24. Human papillomaviruses are ubiquitous, and HPV infections are more the norm than the exception. At least half of sexually active men and women acquire genital HPV infections at some point in their lives. A recent estimate suggests that by age 50, 80 percent of women will have acquired genital HPV. Not all HPV infections would be prevented by the new vaccine. There are about 30 variants of the virus that commonly infect men and women. Although the vaccine prevents only four, these four are critically important, because they account for vast majorities of cases of both genital warts and cervical cancer. Still, because 30 percent of cervical cancers are because of HPV variants not included in the vaccine, even if a woman is fully immunized, she still needs regular Pap smears. Next Article in Health (3 of 8) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. In New Hampshire, Soft Sell Eases Vaccine Fears SECOND OPINION; A Vital Discussion, Clouded Texas Is First To Require Cancer Shots For Schoolgirls Human Papilloma Virus (HPV) Next Article in Health (3 of 8) &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » Everything you need to know about heart disease Hip resurfacing: is it right for you? The changing attitudes towards "chemo brain" Treating the awkward years N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/pages/health/index.html?partner=rssnyt	Health News - New York Times Mental Health & Behavior Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession By ABIGAIL ZUGER, M.D. Some doctors turned writers want to dispel the notion of medical magic, some offer social critique and some should keep their day jobs. As Demand for Donor Eggs Soars, High Prices Stir Ethical Concerns By RONI CARYN RABIN Many egg donors derive great satisfaction from knowing that they helped someone start a family, but sizable payments are raising controversy. More The Consumer Columns » Oklahoma Chides Insurer in Medicare Marketing Case Some agents for Humana have enrolled Medicare recipients in products that “they did not understand and did not want,” an official said. An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Some are questioning whether Oscar Pistorius’s prosthetic legs give him an unfair advantage over other sprinters. Q & A : Two Kinds of Oxygen Vital Signs: Patterns: Moderate Drinking May Ease Effects of ‘Bad’ Cholesterol Vital Signs: Nutrition: A Cardiovascular Argument for Eating Whole Grains Obama Says He’d Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest In Corzine’s Recovery, Doctors Cite Grit and Luck Westchester to Pay Woman in False TB Scare John K. Lattimer, Urologist of Varied Expertise, Dies at 92 In New Hampshire, Soft Sell Eases Vaccine Fears Doctor Grafted Skin to Aid Drug Dealers, U.S. Authorities Say Electric Pulses, Instead of Shocks, Can Help Heart Patients Some parents of children with Down syndrome want prospective parents to know the positive side of raising a child with the genetic condition. : Going Against the Flow A birth control pill designed to eliminate the monthly period may hit the market soon. : Choosing Hip Resurfacing Keith McDonald underwent hip resurfacing surgery, a newer alternative to total hip replacement. Dairy Council to End Ad Campaign That Linked Drinking Milk With Weight Loss The Yoga Therapist Will See You Now Passage of Drug Safety Bill Was Common Goal for Two Very Different Senators Senate Approves Tighter Policing of Drug Makers MENTAL HEALTH & BEHAVIOR» Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry’s Role Study Suggests Meditation Can Help Train Attention HPV Vaccine: Few Risks, Many Benefits By JANE E. BRODY Many parents remain wary about using the HPV vaccine for the girls and young women it was meant to protect. The Claim: Darker Skin Protects Against Skin Cancer People with darker skin get deeper tans and burn less quickly than other people, but does that mean better protection against skin cancer? Jane Brody, "Personal Health" columnist, discusses the latest health news. Genetic Testing + Abortion = ??? The right to choose, and the right to screen for sex, cancer genes or smarts. A user's guide to diagnostic tests. What you need to know about procedures and diagnoses for six major diseases. Go to Special Section » News from AP &#x00bb; Study: Vitamins Tied to Prostate Cancer Blood Pressure Rising Around the Globe Boy Receives New Heart at Ark. Hospital Researchers Examine Crystal Meth Effects Blood Pressure Rising Around the Globe FDA: FluMist Effective for Kids Under 5 Browse All Health Topics Select a Health Topic Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS) Dietary Supplements and Herbal Remedies Food Contamination and Poisoning Human Papilloma Virus (HPV) Mental Health and Disorders Post Traumatic Stress Disorder SARS (Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome) Seasonal Affective Disorder (SAD) Sexually Transmitted Diseases (STDs) Sudden Infant Death Syndrome Suicides and Suicide Attempts Health & Fitness Tools What's your score? » Calorie Calculator for Goal Weight What's your limit? » MOST POPULAR - HEALTH Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Vital Signs: Nutrition: A Cardiovascular Argument for Eating Whole Grains The Consumer: As Demand for Donor Eggs Soars, High Prices Stir Ethical Concerns Personal Health: HPV Vaccine: Few Risks, Many Benefits Vital Signs: Patterns: Moderate Drinking May Ease Effects of &#8216;Bad&#8217; Cholesterol Really?: The Claim: Darker Skin Protects Against Skin Cancer Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role Study Suggests Meditation Can Help Train Attention Jury Is Still Out on Gluten, the Latest Dietary Villain Go to Complete List » Psychiatrists, Troubled Children and Drug Industry's Role In New Hampshire, Soft Sell Eases Vaccine Fears Patterns: Moderate Drinking May Ease Effects of â€˜Bad' Cholesterol Electric Pulses, Instead of Shocks, Can Help Heart Patients Go to Complete List » Everything you need to know about heart disease Hip resurfacing: is it right for you? The changing attitudes towards "chemo brain" Treating the awkward years Miracle On Ice - 1980 Browse movie reviews from 1913. Plan what to see, eat and do. Buy, sell or research a car. Start your 30-day free trial of Times Reader today. Photos, fine art, books and more. Be Prepared. For Your Major Purchase. The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/pages/health/index.html?partner=rssnyt	Health News - New York Times Mental Health & Behavior Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession By ABIGAIL ZUGER, M.D. Some doctors turned writers want to dispel the notion of medical magic, some offer social critique and some should keep their day jobs. As Demand for Donor Eggs Soars, High Prices Stir Ethical Concerns By RONI CARYN RABIN Many egg donors derive great satisfaction from knowing that they helped someone start a family, but sizable payments are raising controversy. More The Consumer Columns » Oklahoma Chides Insurer in Medicare Marketing Case Some agents for Humana have enrolled Medicare recipients in products that “they did not understand and did not want,” an official said. An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Some are questioning whether Oscar Pistorius’s prosthetic legs give him an unfair advantage over other sprinters. Q & A : Two Kinds of Oxygen Vital Signs: Patterns: Moderate Drinking May Ease Effects of ‘Bad’ Cholesterol Vital Signs: Nutrition: A Cardiovascular Argument for Eating Whole Grains Obama Says He’d Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest In Corzine’s Recovery, Doctors Cite Grit and Luck Westchester to Pay Woman in False TB Scare John K. Lattimer, Urologist of Varied Expertise, Dies at 92 In New Hampshire, Soft Sell Eases Vaccine Fears Doctor Grafted Skin to Aid Drug Dealers, U.S. Authorities Say Electric Pulses, Instead of Shocks, Can Help Heart Patients Some parents of children with Down syndrome want prospective parents to know the positive side of raising a child with the genetic condition. : Going Against the Flow A birth control pill designed to eliminate the monthly period may hit the market soon. : Choosing Hip Resurfacing Keith McDonald underwent hip resurfacing surgery, a newer alternative to total hip replacement. Dairy Council to End Ad Campaign That Linked Drinking Milk With Weight Loss The Yoga Therapist Will See You Now Passage of Drug Safety Bill Was Common Goal for Two Very Different Senators Senate Approves Tighter Policing of Drug Makers MENTAL HEALTH & BEHAVIOR» Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry’s Role Study Suggests Meditation Can Help Train Attention HPV Vaccine: Few Risks, Many Benefits By JANE E. BRODY Many parents remain wary about using the HPV vaccine for the girls and young women it was meant to protect. The Claim: Darker Skin Protects Against Skin Cancer People with darker skin get deeper tans and burn less quickly than other people, but does that mean better protection against skin cancer? Jane Brody, "Personal Health" columnist, discusses the latest health news. Genetic Testing + Abortion = ??? The right to choose, and the right to screen for sex, cancer genes or smarts. A user's guide to diagnostic tests. What you need to know about procedures and diagnoses for six major diseases. Go to Special Section » News from AP &#x00bb; Study: Vitamins Tied to Prostate Cancer Blood Pressure Rising Around the Globe Boy Receives New Heart at Ark. Hospital Researchers Examine Crystal Meth Effects Blood Pressure Rising Around the Globe FDA: FluMist Effective for Kids Under 5 Browse All Health Topics Select a Health Topic Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS) Dietary Supplements and Herbal Remedies Food Contamination and Poisoning Human Papilloma Virus (HPV) Mental Health and Disorders Post Traumatic Stress Disorder SARS (Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome) Seasonal Affective Disorder (SAD) Sexually Transmitted Diseases (STDs) Sudden Infant Death Syndrome Suicides and Suicide Attempts Health & Fitness Tools What's your score? » Calorie Calculator for Goal Weight What's your limit? » MOST POPULAR - HEALTH Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Vital Signs: Nutrition: A Cardiovascular Argument for Eating Whole Grains The Consumer: As Demand for Donor Eggs Soars, High Prices Stir Ethical Concerns Personal Health: HPV Vaccine: Few Risks, Many Benefits Vital Signs: Patterns: Moderate Drinking May Ease Effects of &#8216;Bad&#8217; Cholesterol Really?: The Claim: Darker Skin Protects Against Skin Cancer Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role Study Suggests Meditation Can Help Train Attention Jury Is Still Out on Gluten, the Latest Dietary Villain Go to Complete List » Psychiatrists, Troubled Children and Drug Industry's Role In New Hampshire, Soft Sell Eases Vaccine Fears Patterns: Moderate Drinking May Ease Effects of â€˜Bad' Cholesterol Electric Pulses, Instead of Shocks, Can Help Heart Patients Go to Complete List » Everything you need to know about heart disease Hip resurfacing: is it right for you? The changing attitudes towards "chemo brain" Treating the awkward years Miracle On Ice - 1980 Browse movie reviews from 1913. Plan what to see, eat and do. Buy, sell or research a car. Start your 30-day free trial of Times Reader today. Photos, fine art, books and more. Be Prepared. For Your Major Purchase. The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/washington/15medicare.html	Oklahoma Chides Insurer in Medicare Marketing Case - New York Times Oklahoma Chides Insurer in Medicare Marketing Case Kim Holland, Oklahoma insurance commissioner, said Humana &#147;did not adequately supervise its agents.&#148; Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 15, 2007 WASHINGTON, May 14 — In the first major investigation of Medicare marketing, the insurance commissioner has documented widespread misconduct by agents working for Humana and has ordered the company to take corrective action to protect consumers against high-pressure sales tactics. The commissioner, Kim Holland, said some agents had enrolled Medicare recipients in Humana products that “they did not understand and did not want.” At least 68 agents did not have the licenses needed to sell insurance in Oklahoma, Ms. Holland said Monday in an interview. “Humana took advantage of a new market, but did not adequately supervise its agents,” said Ms. Holland, who was an insurance agent for 25 years before becoming the state’s top insurance regulator in 2005. Humana has made a big push to expand its Medicare business and is now the second-largest participant in the Medicare market, after the UnitedHealth Group. Thomas T. Noland Jr., a senior vice president of Humana, said that people who chose its products were overwhelmingly satisfied. “As the guardian of the company’s reputation, I would know if there were any problems,” Mr. Noland said. In its latest financial report, Humana said its “increased sales and marketing efforts” had been effective. Enrollment in its Medicare Advantage plans totaled 1.1 million on March 31, up 50 percent from a year earlier, and the number of people in its free-standing drug plans shot up 77 percent, to 3.5 million. The drug plans provide pharmacy benefits, but do not pay for doctors or hospitals. Of the 41 states responding to a recent survey by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners, 39 said they had received complaints about misrepresentations by insurance agents or companies in marketing Medicare-related products. Twenty-two states reported complaints of fraudulent activity like falsifying signatures on applications. Many state insurance commissioners say some insurers have used improper hard-sell tactics to persuade Medicare recipients to sign up for private health plans. Oklahoma is the first state to conduct a formal “market conduct examination,” visiting a company’s offices and reviewing its files to assess sales practices. Karen M. Ignagni, president of America’s Health Insurance Plans, a trade group, said her organization would adopt stricter standards to ensure that agents provided “clear, complete and accurate information.” After being reprimanded by federal auditors, WellCare Health Plans announced new compliance measures last week. Janet S. Trautwein, executive vice president of the National Association of Health Underwriters, which represents insurance agents and brokers, said: “A few bad apples have been behaving unethically. I make no excuses for them. They do not reflect the behavior of the majority of agents who work with seniors.” The Oklahoma Insurance Department said it had found many cases in which agents enrolled Medicare beneficiaries in Humana plans that were not in their best interests. In some cases, the regulators said, consumers were confused because they had dementia or other mental impairments. Oklahoma investigators found that some people who wanted to buy just drug coverage from Humana were instead enrolled in “an unwanted plan,” a comprehensive Medicare Advantage plan. The investigators’ report said it appeared that some agents had used “bait-and-switch tactics to secure the initial invitation” into the homes of Medicare beneficiaries. In one case in the report, a man was switched to a Humana plan from traditional Medicare. As a result, he lost the extra benefits that he had under a Medicare supplement policy from Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Oklahoma, and he incurred additional costs when he became ill. The Oklahoma Insurance Department said: “The member had to borrow against his house to pay for these uninsured hospital and medical expenses. This was solely due to the failure of the agent to properly explain his existing coverage and the impact of purchasing a Medicare Advantage plan.” Humana investigated numerous complaints. But, the report said, in many cases “the investigation was conducted more to mitigate, justify and defend the actions of the agent and the company” than to help consumers. In its report, the Oklahoma Insurance Department also made these findings: ¶Humana gave agents a strong incentive to sell Medicare Advantage plans, typically paying a commission of $250 for each sale, five times as much as the commission for selling a prescription drug plan. ¶Humana did not maintain a complete record of complaints from Medicare beneficiaries, as required under Oklahoma law. ¶Independent agents had to complete a 16-hour training course that included three hours of “self-study” and four hours of telephone conference calls. “This training program,” the report said, “did not appear to be sufficiently comprehensive to fully cover a topic as complex as Medicare and the products which these agents would be selling.” More Articles in Washington &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Humana Profit More Than Doubles, Aided by Medicare Gains In Scramble for New Medicare Business, a Few Insurers Grab the Most COMPANY NEWS; HUMANA PROFIT UP SHARPLY AS MEDICARE ROLLS EXPAND COMPANY NEWS; HUMANA RAISES PROFIT ESTIMATE FOR FIRST QUARTER More Articles in Washington &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Men's Denim Authentic Pigment-Dyed Box Hood N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/washington/15medicare.html	Oklahoma Chides Insurer in Medicare Marketing Case - New York Times Oklahoma Chides Insurer in Medicare Marketing Case Kim Holland, Oklahoma insurance commissioner, said Humana &#147;did not adequately supervise its agents.&#148; Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 15, 2007 WASHINGTON, May 14 — In the first major investigation of Medicare marketing, the insurance commissioner has documented widespread misconduct by agents working for Humana and has ordered the company to take corrective action to protect consumers against high-pressure sales tactics. The commissioner, Kim Holland, said some agents had enrolled Medicare recipients in Humana products that “they did not understand and did not want.” At least 68 agents did not have the licenses needed to sell insurance in Oklahoma, Ms. Holland said Monday in an interview. “Humana took advantage of a new market, but did not adequately supervise its agents,” said Ms. Holland, who was an insurance agent for 25 years before becoming the state’s top insurance regulator in 2005. Humana has made a big push to expand its Medicare business and is now the second-largest participant in the Medicare market, after the UnitedHealth Group. Thomas T. Noland Jr., a senior vice president of Humana, said that people who chose its products were overwhelmingly satisfied. “As the guardian of the company’s reputation, I would know if there were any problems,” Mr. Noland said. In its latest financial report, Humana said its “increased sales and marketing efforts” had been effective. Enrollment in its Medicare Advantage plans totaled 1.1 million on March 31, up 50 percent from a year earlier, and the number of people in its free-standing drug plans shot up 77 percent, to 3.5 million. The drug plans provide pharmacy benefits, but do not pay for doctors or hospitals. Of the 41 states responding to a recent survey by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners, 39 said they had received complaints about misrepresentations by insurance agents or companies in marketing Medicare-related products. Twenty-two states reported complaints of fraudulent activity like falsifying signatures on applications. Many state insurance commissioners say some insurers have used improper hard-sell tactics to persuade Medicare recipients to sign up for private health plans. Oklahoma is the first state to conduct a formal “market conduct examination,” visiting a company’s offices and reviewing its files to assess sales practices. Karen M. Ignagni, president of America’s Health Insurance Plans, a trade group, said her organization would adopt stricter standards to ensure that agents provided “clear, complete and accurate information.” After being reprimanded by federal auditors, WellCare Health Plans announced new compliance measures last week. Janet S. Trautwein, executive vice president of the National Association of Health Underwriters, which represents insurance agents and brokers, said: “A few bad apples have been behaving unethically. I make no excuses for them. They do not reflect the behavior of the majority of agents who work with seniors.” The Oklahoma Insurance Department said it had found many cases in which agents enrolled Medicare beneficiaries in Humana plans that were not in their best interests. In some cases, the regulators said, consumers were confused because they had dementia or other mental impairments. Oklahoma investigators found that some people who wanted to buy just drug coverage from Humana were instead enrolled in “an unwanted plan,” a comprehensive Medicare Advantage plan. The investigators’ report said it appeared that some agents had used “bait-and-switch tactics to secure the initial invitation” into the homes of Medicare beneficiaries. In one case in the report, a man was switched to a Humana plan from traditional Medicare. As a result, he lost the extra benefits that he had under a Medicare supplement policy from Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Oklahoma, and he incurred additional costs when he became ill. The Oklahoma Insurance Department said: “The member had to borrow against his house to pay for these uninsured hospital and medical expenses. This was solely due to the failure of the agent to properly explain his existing coverage and the impact of purchasing a Medicare Advantage plan.” Humana investigated numerous complaints. But, the report said, in many cases “the investigation was conducted more to mitigate, justify and defend the actions of the agent and the company” than to help consumers. In its report, the Oklahoma Insurance Department also made these findings: ¶Humana gave agents a strong incentive to sell Medicare Advantage plans, typically paying a commission of $250 for each sale, five times as much as the commission for selling a prescription drug plan. ¶Humana did not maintain a complete record of complaints from Medicare beneficiaries, as required under Oklahoma law. ¶Independent agents had to complete a 16-hour training course that included three hours of “self-study” and four hours of telephone conference calls. “This training program,” the report said, “did not appear to be sufficiently comprehensive to fully cover a topic as complex as Medicare and the products which these agents would be selling.” More Articles in Washington &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Humana Profit More Than Doubles, Aided by Medicare Gains In Scramble for New Medicare Business, a Few Insurers Grab the Most COMPANY NEWS; HUMANA PROFIT UP SHARPLY AS MEDICARE ROLLS EXPAND COMPANY NEWS; HUMANA RAISES PROFIT ESTIMATE FOR FIRST QUARTER More Articles in Washington &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Men's Denim Authentic Pigment-Dyed Box Hood N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/health/15real.html	The Claim: Darker Skin Protects Against Skin Cancer - New York Times Mental Health & Behavior The Claim: Darker Skin Protects Against Skin Cancer Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 15, 2007 Skip to next paragraph It is well known that people with darker skin get deeper tans and burn less quickly than other people. But does that mean better protection against skin The answer is not clear-cut. Although darker-skinned people face a lower risk of skin cancer, they are more likely to develop more aggressive forms of the disease and more likely to die from it. A large part of the problem is a false sense of security. Dark skin has higher amounts of melanin that can filter as much as twice the amount of ultraviolet as paler skin. But that protection still falls short of what doctors recommend when using sunscreen: a skin protection factor, or SPF, of 15 or more. And because many people with dark skin believe that it provides complete immunity, experts say, they often overlook early warning signs. A 2006 study in The Archives of Internal Medicine looked at more than 1,500 people with melanoma. It found that whites were far less likely to have late-stage melanoma than blacks, Hispanics, American Indians and Asians. On average, whites also had a greater five-year survival rate (90 percent) than the others (less than 80 percent). Another study last year in The Archives of Dermatology looked at 1,700 cases of melanoma reported in Florida over a five-year period and had similar results. People with darker skin tones have a lower risk of skin cancer, but are more likely to die from it. Next Article in Health (4 of 8) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Next Article in Health (4 of 8) &#x00bb; Everything you need to know about heart disease Hip resurfacing: is it right for you? The changing attitudes towards "chemo brain" Treating the awkward years N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/washington/15medicare.html?ex=1336881600&en=f4e60b004c0abe1f&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Oklahoma Chides Insurer in Medicare Marketing Case - New York Times Oklahoma Chides Insurer in Medicare Marketing Case Kim Holland, Oklahoma insurance commissioner, said Humana &#147;did not adequately supervise its agents.&#148; Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 15, 2007 WASHINGTON, May 14 — In the first major investigation of Medicare marketing, the insurance commissioner has documented widespread misconduct by agents working for Humana and has ordered the company to take corrective action to protect consumers against high-pressure sales tactics. The commissioner, Kim Holland, said some agents had enrolled Medicare recipients in Humana products that “they did not understand and did not want.” At least 68 agents did not have the licenses needed to sell insurance in Oklahoma, Ms. Holland said Monday in an interview. “Humana took advantage of a new market, but did not adequately supervise its agents,” said Ms. Holland, who was an insurance agent for 25 years before becoming the state’s top insurance regulator in 2005. Humana has made a big push to expand its Medicare business and is now the second-largest participant in the Medicare market, after the UnitedHealth Group. Thomas T. Noland Jr., a senior vice president of Humana, said that people who chose its products were overwhelmingly satisfied. “As the guardian of the company’s reputation, I would know if there were any problems,” Mr. Noland said. In its latest financial report, Humana said its “increased sales and marketing efforts” had been effective. Enrollment in its Medicare Advantage plans totaled 1.1 million on March 31, up 50 percent from a year earlier, and the number of people in its free-standing drug plans shot up 77 percent, to 3.5 million. The drug plans provide pharmacy benefits, but do not pay for doctors or hospitals. Of the 41 states responding to a recent survey by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners, 39 said they had received complaints about misrepresentations by insurance agents or companies in marketing Medicare-related products. Twenty-two states reported complaints of fraudulent activity like falsifying signatures on applications. Many state insurance commissioners say some insurers have used improper hard-sell tactics to persuade Medicare recipients to sign up for private health plans. Oklahoma is the first state to conduct a formal “market conduct examination,” visiting a company’s offices and reviewing its files to assess sales practices. Karen M. Ignagni, president of America’s Health Insurance Plans, a trade group, said her organization would adopt stricter standards to ensure that agents provided “clear, complete and accurate information.” After being reprimanded by federal auditors, WellCare Health Plans announced new compliance measures last week. Janet S. Trautwein, executive vice president of the National Association of Health Underwriters, which represents insurance agents and brokers, said: “A few bad apples have been behaving unethically. I make no excuses for them. They do not reflect the behavior of the majority of agents who work with seniors.” The Oklahoma Insurance Department said it had found many cases in which agents enrolled Medicare beneficiaries in Humana plans that were not in their best interests. In some cases, the regulators said, consumers were confused because they had dementia or other mental impairments. Oklahoma investigators found that some people who wanted to buy just drug coverage from Humana were instead enrolled in “an unwanted plan,” a comprehensive Medicare Advantage plan. The investigators’ report said it appeared that some agents had used “bait-and-switch tactics to secure the initial invitation” into the homes of Medicare beneficiaries. In one case in the report, a man was switched to a Humana plan from traditional Medicare. As a result, he lost the extra benefits that he had under a Medicare supplement policy from Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Oklahoma, and he incurred additional costs when he became ill. The Oklahoma Insurance Department said: “The member had to borrow against his house to pay for these uninsured hospital and medical expenses. This was solely due to the failure of the agent to properly explain his existing coverage and the impact of purchasing a Medicare Advantage plan.” Humana investigated numerous complaints. But, the report said, in many cases “the investigation was conducted more to mitigate, justify and defend the actions of the agent and the company” than to help consumers. In its report, the Oklahoma Insurance Department also made these findings: ¶Humana gave agents a strong incentive to sell Medicare Advantage plans, typically paying a commission of $250 for each sale, five times as much as the commission for selling a prescription drug plan. ¶Humana did not maintain a complete record of complaints from Medicare beneficiaries, as required under Oklahoma law. ¶Independent agents had to complete a 16-hour training course that included three hours of “self-study” and four hours of telephone conference calls. “This training program,” the report said, “did not appear to be sufficiently comprehensive to fully cover a topic as complex as Medicare and the products which these agents would be selling.” More Articles in Washington &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Humana Profit More Than Doubles, Aided by Medicare Gains In Scramble for New Medicare Business, a Few Insurers Grab the Most COMPANY NEWS; HUMANA PROFIT UP SHARPLY AS MEDICARE ROLLS EXPAND COMPANY NEWS; HUMANA RAISES PROFIT ESTIMATE FOR FIRST QUARTER More Articles in Washington &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Gonzales Pressed Ailing Ashcroft on Spy Plan, Aide Says Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/pages/health/index.html	Health News - New York Times Mental Health & Behavior Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession By ABIGAIL ZUGER, M.D. Some doctors turned writers want to dispel the notion of medical magic, some offer social critique and some should keep their day jobs. As Demand for Donor Eggs Soars, High Prices Stir Ethical Concerns By RONI CARYN RABIN Many egg donors derive great satisfaction from knowing that they helped someone start a family, but sizable payments are raising controversy. More The Consumer Columns » Oklahoma Chides Insurer in Medicare Marketing Case Some agents for Humana have enrolled Medicare recipients in products that “they did not understand and did not want,” an official said. An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Some are questioning whether Oscar Pistorius’s prosthetic legs give him an unfair advantage over other sprinters. Q & A : Two Kinds of Oxygen Vital Signs: Patterns: Moderate Drinking May Ease Effects of ‘Bad’ Cholesterol Vital Signs: Nutrition: A Cardiovascular Argument for Eating Whole Grains Obama Says He’d Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest In Corzine’s Recovery, Doctors Cite Grit and Luck Westchester to Pay Woman in False TB Scare John K. Lattimer, Urologist of Varied Expertise, Dies at 92 In New Hampshire, Soft Sell Eases Vaccine Fears Doctor Grafted Skin to Aid Drug Dealers, U.S. Authorities Say Electric Pulses, Instead of Shocks, Can Help Heart Patients Some parents of children with Down syndrome want prospective parents to know the positive side of raising a child with the genetic condition. : Going Against the Flow A birth control pill designed to eliminate the monthly period may hit the market soon. : Choosing Hip Resurfacing Keith McDonald underwent hip resurfacing surgery, a newer alternative to total hip replacement. Dairy Council to End Ad Campaign That Linked Drinking Milk With Weight Loss The Yoga Therapist Will See You Now Passage of Drug Safety Bill Was Common Goal for Two Very Different Senators Senate Approves Tighter Policing of Drug Makers MENTAL HEALTH & BEHAVIOR» Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry’s Role Study Suggests Meditation Can Help Train Attention HPV Vaccine: Few Risks, Many Benefits By JANE E. BRODY Many parents remain wary about using the HPV vaccine for the girls and young women it was meant to protect. The Claim: Darker Skin Protects Against Skin Cancer People with darker skin get deeper tans and burn less quickly than other people, but does that mean better protection against skin cancer? Jane Brody, "Personal Health" columnist, discusses the latest health news. Genetic Testing + Abortion = ??? The right to choose, and the right to screen for sex, cancer genes or smarts. A user's guide to diagnostic tests. What you need to know about procedures and diagnoses for six major diseases. Go to Special Section » News from AP &#x00bb; LA Hospital Death Under Investigation Study: Vitamins Tied to Prostate Cancer Blood Pressure Rising Around the Globe Boy Receives New Heart at Ark. Hospital Researchers Examine Crystal Meth Effects Blood Pressure Rising Around the Globe Browse All Health Topics Select a Health Topic Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS) Dietary Supplements and Herbal Remedies Food Contamination and Poisoning Human Papilloma Virus (HPV) Mental Health and Disorders Post Traumatic Stress Disorder SARS (Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome) Seasonal Affective Disorder (SAD) Sexually Transmitted Diseases (STDs) Sudden Infant Death Syndrome Suicides and Suicide Attempts Health & Fitness Tools What's your score? » Calorie Calculator for Goal Weight What's your limit? » MOST POPULAR - HEALTH Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Vital Signs: Nutrition: A Cardiovascular Argument for Eating Whole Grains The Consumer: As Demand for Donor Eggs Soars, High Prices Stir Ethical Concerns Personal Health: HPV Vaccine: Few Risks, Many Benefits Vital Signs: Patterns: Moderate Drinking May Ease Effects of &#8216;Bad&#8217; Cholesterol Really?: The Claim: Darker Skin Protects Against Skin Cancer Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role Study Suggests Meditation Can Help Train Attention Jury Is Still Out on Gluten, the Latest Dietary Villain Go to Complete List » Psychiatrists, Troubled Children and Drug Industry's Role In New Hampshire, Soft Sell Eases Vaccine Fears Patterns: Moderate Drinking May Ease Effects of â€˜Bad' Cholesterol Electric Pulses, Instead of Shocks, Can Help Heart Patients Go to Complete List » Everything you need to know about heart disease Hip resurfacing: is it right for you? The changing attitudes towards "chemo brain" Treating the awkward years Be Prepared. For Your Major Purchase. Photos, fine art, books and more. Start your 30-day free trial of Times Reader today. What movie should you see? Looking for a job? The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/health/15cons.html	Egg Donation - Infertility - Invitro Fertilization - As Demand for Donor Eggs Soars, High Prices Stir Ethical Concerns - New York Times Mental Health & Behavior As Demand for Donor Eggs Soars, High Prices Stir Ethical Concerns Sign In to E-Mail or Save This By RONI CARYN RABIN Published: May 15, 2007 Samantha Carolan was 23 and fresh out of graduate school when she decided to donate eggs to an infertile couple. Ms. Carolan concedes that she would never have done it if not for the money, $7,000 that she used to pay off some Skip to next paragraph More The Consumer Columns » She has since had a second egg extraction, for which she was paid $8,000, and she is planning a third before taking a break. “The first time, it’s frightening,” said Ms. Carolan, now 24, of Winfield Park, N.J. “It is surgery, and I don’t think I would have done it without compensation. But I had very limited pain, and it was a great experience for me. I would have done it the second time for less money or even no compensation.” Though many egg donors derive great satisfaction from knowing that they helped someone start a family, the price of eggs has soared in recent years as demand has increased, and the sizable payments raise controversy. A survey published this month in the journal Fertility and Sterility, “What Is Happening to the Price of Eggs?” found that the national average compensation for donors was $4,217. At least one center told the authors of the paper that it paid $15,000. Many centers did not respond. Though laws prohibit the sale of transplant organs, sperm donors have always received small payments, and prospective parents in the United States are allowed to compensate women for their far greater expenditure of time and energy. (Many countries, including Canada and Britain, do prohibit payments to egg donors.) The American Society for Reproductive Medicine considers compensation of $5,000 or more to “require justification” and sums exceeding $10,000 “beyond what is appropriate.” Meanwhile, advertisements recruiting students from elite universities to donate promise tens of thousands of dollars, and donor agencies have sprung up, appealing to would-be parents with online videos and photo galleries of donors. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention , 5,767 babies were born in 2003 from donor eggs; the number of actual egg donations is probably much higher, however, because the success rate is fairly low. Ethicists and some women’s health advocates worry that lucrative payments are enticing young women with credit-card debt and steep tuition bills to sell eggs without seriously evaluating the risks. “The real issue is whether the money can cloud someone’s judgment,” said Josephine Johnston, an associate for law and bioethics at the Hastings Center, a research group in Garrison, N.Y., that specializes in medical ethics. She does not oppose compensation, but she does worry about high prices. “We hear about egg donors being paid enormous amounts of money, $50,000 or $60,000,” Ms. Johnston said. “How much is that person actually giving informed consent about the medical procedure and really listening and thinking as it’s being described and its risks are explained?” Adding to the debate was a proposal by lawmakers in Maryland to ban payments for eggs. Proponents of compensation say if payments are lowered or eliminated, the supply of eggs will dwindle or dry up. “Women aren’t exactly lining up to be donors,” said Dr. Mark Sauer, director of the Center for Women’s Reproductive Care at the Columbia University Medical Center . “There are a lot more recipients than donors.” Part of the problem is that the risks of donation have not been thoroughly studied. Although the consensus among most reproductive endocrinologists is that extraction is safe, five deaths have been reported in Britain. There are enough unanswered questions that researchers have promised not to pay for eggs. “One of the most striking facts about in vitro fertilization is just how little is known with certainty about the long-term health outcomes for the women who undergo the procedure,” a recent report by the The 2005 guidelines of the National Academy of Sciences for human embryonic stem cell research discourage paying for eggs for research. The California Institute for Regenerative Medicine reimburses women only for out-of-pocket expenses like lost wages or cab fare. “As a public agency, we felt we shouldn’t be putting money on the table that might induce someone to take a risk,” said Geoffrey Lomax, senior officer for medical and ethical standards at the institute. So far, women have not come forward to give away eggs for research. “I just completed an outreach initiative to 21 institutions across the state that we’ve funded,” Dr. Lomax said. “No one has had an egg donated specifically for research.” The reluctance is understandable. The process of egg extraction is time consuming, and it is not comfortable. For some women, it can be painful. A woman first has to take medications to stop her menstrual cycle and then daily hormone injections for several weeks to stimulate her ovaries to produce a crop of mature eggs at once. The drugs may cause bloating, weight gain, moodiness and irritability, and there is a risk of a rare condition called ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome that can cause life-threatening complications, blood clots and kidney failure. The egg extraction itself is a surgical procedure in which a thin needle is inserted through the vagina into the ovary to retrieve the eggs and liquid from the follicles. Risks include adverse responses to , infection, bleeding or the inadvertent puncture of an organ. It is the long-term risks, both physical and psychological, that are harder to assess. Questions have been raised about whether extraction may jeopardize the donor’s fertility, and critics worry about the potential psychological harm to a donor of eggs as a young woman who later finds that she is unable to have children. And since egg donors go through much the same process as women trying to conceive in vitro, there are concerns that they may be prone to the higher rates of certain cancers that some studies have found among infertility patients. Still, said Dr. James A. Grifo, director of the division of reproductive endocrinology at the New York University School of Medicine, “There is no credible evidence of long-lasting effects or health consequences down the line.” That does not necessarily mean that the procedures are safe. “There’s no health-outcome data collected by anybody other than some voluntary reporting, and there’s no postmarket testing on how these drugs are being used,” said Susan Berke Fogel, co-founder of the Pro-Choice Alliance for Responsible Research, a project of the Public Health Institute in Oakland, Calif. In a recent article in The New England Journal of Medicine, a Harvard Business School professor said the controversy over the price of eggs was obscuring questions of women’s health. The author, Debora L. Spar, an economist who wrote “The Baby Business” last year, calls for more studies of the drugs being used, more long-term follow-up of donors and federal regulations to ensure proper informed consent. When Ms. Carolan went to donate, the short-term risks were described to her in detail, but she said she did not recall any mention of possible long-term risks. Her family opposed her decision because they worried about her health, she said, and her friends did not understand. “They all think I’m crazy,” she said. “If the topic comes up, and I tell friends I’ve done it, they’re like: ‘Why? Oh my God, aren’t you afraid you have a baby out there?’ They’re so stunned and shocked.” Then she tells them how much she was paid. “And then they go, ‘O.K., I understand now, that’s cool,’ ” she said. “People understand the money.” Next Article in Health (2 of 8) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Study of Mice Reproduction Discovers Egg Regeneration Thawed Ovary Tissue Yields Healthy Embryo Studies Aim to Preserve Fertility of Women in Chemotherapy Ballerina's Ovarian Tissue Transplant Gives Hope to Other Young Women Facing Infertility Next Article in Health (2 of 8) &#x00bb; Everything you need to know about heart disease Hip resurfacing: is it right for you? The changing attitudes towards "chemo brain" Treating the awkward years N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/health/15brod.html	Cervical Cancer Vaccine - HPV - Jane Brody - New York Times Mental Health & Behavior HPV Vaccine: Few Risks, Many Benefits Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 15, 2007 What is it that some parents don’t understand about the HPV vaccine, licensed last summer in hopes of preventing most cases of genital warts and cervical Skip to next paragraph , or HPV, are the most common ¶That there is no treatment for HPV infections? ¶That cervical cancer is the most serious sexually transmitted disease caused by this virus? ¶That 70 percent of cases of cervical cancer arise because of two variants of the virus that the new vaccine protects against? ¶ That 90 percent of genital warts cases are caused by two other variants of the virus that are countered by the vaccine? ¶That most people infected with HPV do not know it, yet can transmit the virus to an unsuspecting sexual partner? ¶That 20 percent of American girls 14 to 19 are infected, and the vaccine works only if administered before women contract the viral variants it is intended to prevent? Despite these facts, the vaccine, sold by Merck as Gardasil, has been mired in controversy, and many parents remain wary about using it for the girls and young women it was meant to protect. Are the Objections Valid? One commonly voiced thought is that immunizing young girls against HPV will encourage promiscuity and that the message to these youngsters should be abstinence before marriage and monogamy after. But the abstinence message is rarely effective. Half of all girls become sexually active before graduating from high school. For some girls and women, sexual behavior occurs against their will, through rape, incest and date rape. Why would this vaccine give girls license to be sexually indulgent? It protects against only one sexually transmitted problem, and there are so many others, including and, of course, unwanted Another concern involves long-term safety. How do we know this vaccine will not eventually cause other problems like autoimmune or neurological disorders or lose its protective powers or foster the dominance of other HPV variants? Actually, we don’t. But we do have at least five years of safety data that include no hints of long-term risks or waning effectiveness. But if the vaccine should begin to lose potency over time, that could easily be remedied by a booster shot. In response to suggestions of mandatory HPV for all girls entering high school, opponents have objected to “forcing” therapy on healthy girls under the presumption that future behavior might result in a disease. This is exactly the principle on which every form of immunization is based. Not everyone contracted before the advent of mandatory vaccines to protect every child. We vaccinate the masses, causing herd immunity, to protect the relatively few who would otherwise become ill and suffer devastating consequences. Finally, objections have been raised about costs. This vaccine is not cheap. Each dose costs $120, or $360 for the three doses needed for full protection, far more than any other commonly used vaccine. If a booster shot is needed later, that could mean another $120. If the vaccine is made mandatory, states might have to pay for immunizing girls not covered by insurance. Still, HPV infections are far more costly. As noted in the March issue of The American Journal of Obstetrics and Gynecology: “The annual burden of cervical HPV-related disease ranges from $2.25 billion to $4.6 billion in the United States. The annual burden of cervical cancer ranges from $181.5 million to $363 million.” This is not to mention the physical and emotional costs of cervical cancer to affected women, most of whom can no longer have children and some of whom die of the disease. An estimated 20 million Americans are infected with HPV, and 6.2 percent of girls 15 to 19 become infected each year. All told, more than six million new HPV infections occur annually, 74 percent of them in people 15 to 24. Human papillomaviruses are ubiquitous, and HPV infections are more the norm than the exception. At least half of sexually active men and women acquire genital HPV infections at some point in their lives. A recent estimate suggests that by age 50, 80 percent of women will have acquired genital HPV. Not all HPV infections would be prevented by the new vaccine. There are about 30 variants of the virus that commonly infect men and women. Although the vaccine prevents only four, these four are critically important, because they account for vast majorities of cases of both genital warts and cervical cancer. Still, because 30 percent of cervical cancers are because of HPV variants not included in the vaccine, even if a woman is fully immunized, she still needs regular Pap smears. Next Article in Health (3 of 8) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. In New Hampshire, Soft Sell Eases Vaccine Fears SECOND OPINION; A Vital Discussion, Clouded Texas Is First To Require Cancer Shots For Schoolgirls Human Papilloma Virus (HPV) Next Article in Health (3 of 8) &#x00bb; Everything you need to know about heart disease Hip resurfacing: is it right for you? The changing attitudes towards "chemo brain" Treating the awkward years N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/health/15real.html?ex=1336881600&en=307c0e4aea4db173&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	The Claim: Darker Skin Protects Against Skin Cancer - New York Times Mental Health & Behavior The Claim: Darker Skin Protects Against Skin Cancer Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 15, 2007 Skip to next paragraph It is well known that people with darker skin get deeper tans and burn less quickly than other people. But does that mean better protection against skin The answer is not clear-cut. Although darker-skinned people face a lower risk of skin cancer, they are more likely to develop more aggressive forms of the disease and more likely to die from it. A large part of the problem is a false sense of security. Dark skin has higher amounts of melanin that can filter as much as twice the amount of ultraviolet as paler skin. But that protection still falls short of what doctors recommend when using sunscreen: a skin protection factor, or SPF, of 15 or more. And because many people with dark skin believe that it provides complete immunity, experts say, they often overlook early warning signs. A 2006 study in The Archives of Internal Medicine looked at more than 1,500 people with melanoma. It found that whites were far less likely to have late-stage melanoma than blacks, Hispanics, American Indians and Asians. On average, whites also had a greater five-year survival rate (90 percent) than the others (less than 80 percent). Another study last year in The Archives of Dermatology looked at 1,700 cases of melanoma reported in Florida over a five-year period and had similar results. People with darker skin tones have a lower risk of skin cancer, but are more likely to die from it. Next Article in Health (4 of 8) &#x00bb; Get home delivery of The Times for as low as $2.99 a week — that’s 50% off. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Next Article in Health (4 of 8) &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Gonzales Pressed Ailing Ashcroft on Spy Plan, Aide Says Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » Everything you need to know about heart disease Hip resurfacing: is it right for you? The changing attitudes towards "chemo brain" Treating the awkward years N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/sports/othersports/15runner.html?ex=1336881600&en=a526b1706f63d1d6&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? - New York Times An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? &#147;I don&#146;t see myself as disabled,&#148; said Oscar Pistorius, a former rugby and water polo player. &#147;There&#146;s nothing I can&#146;t do that able-bodied athletes can do.&#148; Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 15, 2007 MANCHESTER, England, May 14 — As Oscar Pistorius of South Africa crouched in the starting blocks for the 200 meters on Sunday, the small crowd turned its attention to the sprinter who calls himself the fastest man on no legs. Skip to next paragraph Do you think athletes with prosthetics should be allowed to compete with able-bodied athletes? Video: Oscar Pistorius's Victory in the T44 Men's 200 Meters Christopher Furlong/Getty Images, for The New York Times Pistorius, left, won the 200-meter race at the Paralympic World Cup. He wants to compete in the 2008 Olympics. Pistorius wants to be the first amputee runner to compete in the Olympics. But despite his ascendance, he is facing resistance from track and field’s world governing body, which is seeking to bar him on the grounds that the technology of his prosthetics may give him an unfair advantage over sprinters using their natural legs. His first strides were choppy Sunday, a necessary accommodation to sprinting on a pair of j-shaped blades made of carbon fiber and known as Cheetahs. Pistorius was born without the fibula in his lower legs and with other defects in his feet. He had both legs amputated below the knee when he was 11 months old. At 20, his coach says, he is like a five-speed engine with no second gear. Yet Pistorius is also a searing talent who has begun erasing the lines between abled and disabled, raising philosophical questions: What should an athlete look like? Where should limits be placed on technology to balance fair play with the right to compete? Would the nature of sport be altered if athletes using artificial limbs could run faster or jump higher than the best athletes using their natural limbs? Once at full speed Sunday, Pistorius handily won the 100 and 200 meters here at the Paralympic World Cup, an international competition for disabled athletes. A cold, rainy afternoon tempered his performances, but his victories came decisively and kept him aimed toward his goal of the 2008 Summer Olympics in Beijing, even though international track officials seek to block his entrance. Since March, Pistorius has delivered startling record performances for disabled athletes at 100 meters (10.91 seconds), 200 meters (21.58 seconds) and 400 meters (46.34 seconds). Those times do not meet Olympic qualifying standards for men, but the Beijing Games are still 15 months away. Already, Pistorius is fast enough that his marks would have won gold medals in equivalent women’s races at the 2004 Athens Olympics. Pistorius’s time of 46.56 in the 400 earned him a second-place finish in March against able-bodied runners at the South African national championships. This seemingly makes him a candidate for the Olympic 4x400-meter relay should South Africa qualify as one of the world’s 16 fastest teams. “I don’t see myself as disabled,” said the blond, spiky-haired Pistorius, a former rugby and water polo player who declines to park in spaces reserved for the disabled. “There’s nothing I can’t do that able-bodied athletes can do.” An Equalizer or an Edge? Still, the question persists: Do prosthetic legs simply level the playing field for Pistorius, compensating for his disability, or do they give him an inequitable edge via what some call techno-doping? Experts say there have been limited scientific studies on the biomechanics of amputee runners, especially those missing both legs. And because Pistorius lost his legs as an infant, his speed on carbon-fiber legs cannot be compared with his speed on natural legs. Track and field’s world governing body, based in Monaco and known by the initials I.A.A.F., has recently prohibited the use of technological aids like springs and wheels, disqualifying Pistorius from events that it sanctions. A final ruling is expected in August. allows governing bodies to make their own eligibility rules, though it can intervene. Since 2004, for example, transgender athletes have been allowed to compete in the Olympics. “With all due respect, we cannot accept something that provides advantages,” said Elio Locatelli of Italy, the director of development for the I.A.A.F., urging Pistorius to concentrate on the Paralympics that will follow the Olympics in Beijing. “It affects the purity of sport. Next will be another device where people can fly with something on their back.” Others have questioned the governing body’s motivation. Next Article in Sports (3 of 27) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Where Beating the Odds Is Nothing New TRACK AND FIELD; It's All in the Timing SIDELINES: A PERSONAL VICTORY; Although Disabled He's Not Unable Student Wins the Right To Race in Wheelchair Next Article in Sports (3 of 27) &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Gonzales Pressed Ailing Ashcroft on Spy Plan, Aide Says Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/health/15cons.html?ex=1336881600&en=e28865075dcd9ed6&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Egg Donation - Infertility - Invitro Fertilization - As Demand for Donor Eggs Soars, High Prices Stir Ethical Concerns - New York Times Mental Health & Behavior As Demand for Donor Eggs Soars, High Prices Stir Ethical Concerns Sign In to E-Mail or Save This By RONI CARYN RABIN Published: May 15, 2007 Samantha Carolan was 23 and fresh out of graduate school when she decided to donate eggs to an infertile couple. Ms. Carolan concedes that she would never have done it if not for the money, $7,000 that she used to pay off some Skip to next paragraph More The Consumer Columns » She has since had a second egg extraction, for which she was paid $8,000, and she is planning a third before taking a break. “The first time, it’s frightening,” said Ms. Carolan, now 24, of Winfield Park, N.J. “It is surgery, and I don’t think I would have done it without compensation. But I had very limited pain, and it was a great experience for me. I would have done it the second time for less money or even no compensation.” Though many egg donors derive great satisfaction from knowing that they helped someone start a family, the price of eggs has soared in recent years as demand has increased, and the sizable payments raise controversy. A survey published this month in the journal Fertility and Sterility, “What Is Happening to the Price of Eggs?” found that the national average compensation for donors was $4,217. At least one center told the authors of the paper that it paid $15,000. Many centers did not respond. Though laws prohibit the sale of transplant organs, sperm donors have always received small payments, and prospective parents in the United States are allowed to compensate women for their far greater expenditure of time and energy. (Many countries, including Canada and Britain, do prohibit payments to egg donors.) The American Society for Reproductive Medicine considers compensation of $5,000 or more to “require justification” and sums exceeding $10,000 “beyond what is appropriate.” Meanwhile, advertisements recruiting students from elite universities to donate promise tens of thousands of dollars, and donor agencies have sprung up, appealing to would-be parents with online videos and photo galleries of donors. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention , 5,767 babies were born in 2003 from donor eggs; the number of actual egg donations is probably much higher, however, because the success rate is fairly low. Ethicists and some women’s health advocates worry that lucrative payments are enticing young women with credit-card debt and steep tuition bills to sell eggs without seriously evaluating the risks. “The real issue is whether the money can cloud someone’s judgment,” said Josephine Johnston, an associate for law and bioethics at the Hastings Center, a research group in Garrison, N.Y., that specializes in medical ethics. She does not oppose compensation, but she does worry about high prices. “We hear about egg donors being paid enormous amounts of money, $50,000 or $60,000,” Ms. Johnston said. “How much is that person actually giving informed consent about the medical procedure and really listening and thinking as it’s being described and its risks are explained?” Adding to the debate was a proposal by lawmakers in Maryland to ban payments for eggs. Proponents of compensation say if payments are lowered or eliminated, the supply of eggs will dwindle or dry up. “Women aren’t exactly lining up to be donors,” said Dr. Mark Sauer, director of the Center for Women’s Reproductive Care at the Columbia University Medical Center . “There are a lot more recipients than donors.” Part of the problem is that the risks of donation have not been thoroughly studied. Although the consensus among most reproductive endocrinologists is that extraction is safe, five deaths have been reported in Britain. There are enough unanswered questions that researchers have promised not to pay for eggs. “One of the most striking facts about in vitro fertilization is just how little is known with certainty about the long-term health outcomes for the women who undergo the procedure,” a recent report by the The 2005 guidelines of the National Academy of Sciences for human embryonic stem cell research discourage paying for eggs for research. The California Institute for Regenerative Medicine reimburses women only for out-of-pocket expenses like lost wages or cab fare. “As a public agency, we felt we shouldn’t be putting money on the table that might induce someone to take a risk,” said Geoffrey Lomax, senior officer for medical and ethical standards at the institute. So far, women have not come forward to give away eggs for research. “I just completed an outreach initiative to 21 institutions across the state that we’ve funded,” Dr. Lomax said. “No one has had an egg donated specifically for research.” The reluctance is understandable. The process of egg extraction is time consuming, and it is not comfortable. For some women, it can be painful. A woman first has to take medications to stop her menstrual cycle and then daily hormone injections for several weeks to stimulate her ovaries to produce a crop of mature eggs at once. The drugs may cause bloating, weight gain, moodiness and irritability, and there is a risk of a rare condition called ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome that can cause life-threatening complications, blood clots and kidney failure. The egg extraction itself is a surgical procedure in which a thin needle is inserted through the vagina into the ovary to retrieve the eggs and liquid from the follicles. Risks include adverse responses to , infection, bleeding or the inadvertent puncture of an organ. It is the long-term risks, both physical and psychological, that are harder to assess. Questions have been raised about whether extraction may jeopardize the donor’s fertility, and critics worry about the potential psychological harm to a donor of eggs as a young woman who later finds that she is unable to have children. And since egg donors go through much the same process as women trying to conceive in vitro, there are concerns that they may be prone to the higher rates of certain cancers that some studies have found among infertility patients. Still, said Dr. James A. Grifo, director of the division of reproductive endocrinology at the New York University School of Medicine, “There is no credible evidence of long-lasting effects or health consequences down the line.” That does not necessarily mean that the procedures are safe. “There’s no health-outcome data collected by anybody other than some voluntary reporting, and there’s no postmarket testing on how these drugs are being used,” said Susan Berke Fogel, co-founder of the Pro-Choice Alliance for Responsible Research, a project of the Public Health Institute in Oakland, Calif. In a recent article in The New England Journal of Medicine, a Harvard Business School professor said the controversy over the price of eggs was obscuring questions of women’s health. The author, Debora L. Spar, an economist who wrote “The Baby Business” last year, calls for more studies of the drugs being used, more long-term follow-up of donors and federal regulations to ensure proper informed consent. When Ms. Carolan went to donate, the short-term risks were described to her in detail, but she said she did not recall any mention of possible long-term risks. Her family opposed her decision because they worried about her health, she said, and her friends did not understand. “They all think I’m crazy,” she said. “If the topic comes up, and I tell friends I’ve done it, they’re like: ‘Why? Oh my God, aren’t you afraid you have a baby out there?’ They’re so stunned and shocked.” Then she tells them how much she was paid. “And then they go, ‘O.K., I understand now, that’s cool,’ ” she said. “People understand the money.” Next Article in Health (2 of 8) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Study of Mice Reproduction Discovers Egg Regeneration Thawed Ovary Tissue Yields Healthy Embryo Studies Aim to Preserve Fertility of Women in Chemotherapy Ballerina's Ovarian Tissue Transplant Gives Hope to Other Young Women Facing Infertility Next Article in Health (2 of 8) &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Gonzales Pressed Ailing Ashcroft on Spy Plan, Aide Says Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » Everything you need to know about heart disease Hip resurfacing: is it right for you? The changing attitudes towards "chemo brain" Treating the awkward years N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/sports/othersports/15runner.html	An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? - New York Times An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? &#147;I don&#146;t see myself as disabled,&#148; said Oscar Pistorius, a former rugby and water polo player. &#147;There&#146;s nothing I can&#146;t do that able-bodied athletes can do.&#148; Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 15, 2007 MANCHESTER, England, May 14 — As Oscar Pistorius of South Africa crouched in the starting blocks for the 200 meters on Sunday, the small crowd turned its attention to the sprinter who calls himself the fastest man on no legs. Skip to next paragraph Do you think athletes with prosthetics should be allowed to compete with able-bodied athletes? Video: Oscar Pistorius's Victory in the T44 Men's 200 Meters Christopher Furlong/Getty Images, for The New York Times Pistorius, left, won the 200-meter race at the Paralympic World Cup. He wants to compete in the 2008 Olympics. Pistorius wants to be the first amputee runner to compete in the Olympics. But despite his ascendance, he is facing resistance from track and field’s world governing body, which is seeking to bar him on the grounds that the technology of his prosthetics may give him an unfair advantage over sprinters using their natural legs. His first strides were choppy Sunday, a necessary accommodation to sprinting on a pair of j-shaped blades made of carbon fiber and known as Cheetahs. Pistorius was born without the fibula in his lower legs and with other defects in his feet. He had both legs amputated below the knee when he was 11 months old. At 20, his coach says, he is like a five-speed engine with no second gear. Yet Pistorius is also a searing talent who has begun erasing the lines between abled and disabled, raising philosophical questions: What should an athlete look like? Where should limits be placed on technology to balance fair play with the right to compete? Would the nature of sport be altered if athletes using artificial limbs could run faster or jump higher than the best athletes using their natural limbs? Once at full speed Sunday, Pistorius handily won the 100 and 200 meters here at the Paralympic World Cup, an international competition for disabled athletes. A cold, rainy afternoon tempered his performances, but his victories came decisively and kept him aimed toward his goal of the 2008 Summer Olympics in Beijing, even though international track officials seek to block his entrance. Since March, Pistorius has delivered startling record performances for disabled athletes at 100 meters (10.91 seconds), 200 meters (21.58 seconds) and 400 meters (46.34 seconds). Those times do not meet Olympic qualifying standards for men, but the Beijing Games are still 15 months away. Already, Pistorius is fast enough that his marks would have won gold medals in equivalent women’s races at the 2004 Athens Olympics. Pistorius’s time of 46.56 in the 400 earned him a second-place finish in March against able-bodied runners at the South African national championships. This seemingly makes him a candidate for the Olympic 4x400-meter relay should South Africa qualify as one of the world’s 16 fastest teams. “I don’t see myself as disabled,” said the blond, spiky-haired Pistorius, a former rugby and water polo player who declines to park in spaces reserved for the disabled. “There’s nothing I can’t do that able-bodied athletes can do.” An Equalizer or an Edge? Still, the question persists: Do prosthetic legs simply level the playing field for Pistorius, compensating for his disability, or do they give him an inequitable edge via what some call techno-doping? Experts say there have been limited scientific studies on the biomechanics of amputee runners, especially those missing both legs. And because Pistorius lost his legs as an infant, his speed on carbon-fiber legs cannot be compared with his speed on natural legs. Track and field’s world governing body, based in Monaco and known by the initials I.A.A.F., has recently prohibited the use of technological aids like springs and wheels, disqualifying Pistorius from events that it sanctions. A final ruling is expected in August. allows governing bodies to make their own eligibility rules, though it can intervene. Since 2004, for example, transgender athletes have been allowed to compete in the Olympics. “With all due respect, we cannot accept something that provides advantages,” said Elio Locatelli of Italy, the director of development for the I.A.A.F., urging Pistorius to concentrate on the Paralympics that will follow the Olympics in Beijing. “It affects the purity of sport. Next will be another device where people can fly with something on their back.” Others have questioned the governing body’s motivation. Next Article in Sports (3 of 27) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Where Beating the Odds Is Nothing New TRACK AND FIELD; It's All in the Timing SIDELINES: A PERSONAL VICTORY; Although Disabled He's Not Unable Student Wins the Right To Race in Wheelchair Next Article in Sports (3 of 27) &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Miracle On Ice - 1980 N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/health/15brod.html?ex=1336881600&en=a245fcdd23d0d5ae&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Cervical Cancer Vaccine - HPV - Jane Brody - New York Times Mental Health & Behavior HPV Vaccine: Few Risks, Many Benefits Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 15, 2007 What is it that some parents don’t understand about the HPV vaccine, licensed last summer in hopes of preventing most cases of genital warts and cervical Skip to next paragraph , or HPV, are the most common ¶That there is no treatment for HPV infections? ¶That cervical cancer is the most serious sexually transmitted disease caused by this virus? ¶That 70 percent of cases of cervical cancer arise because of two variants of the virus that the new vaccine protects against? ¶ That 90 percent of genital warts cases are caused by two other variants of the virus that are countered by the vaccine? ¶That most people infected with HPV do not know it, yet can transmit the virus to an unsuspecting sexual partner? ¶That 20 percent of American girls 14 to 19 are infected, and the vaccine works only if administered before women contract the viral variants it is intended to prevent? Despite these facts, the vaccine, sold by Merck as Gardasil, has been mired in controversy, and many parents remain wary about using it for the girls and young women it was meant to protect. Are the Objections Valid? One commonly voiced thought is that immunizing young girls against HPV will encourage promiscuity and that the message to these youngsters should be abstinence before marriage and monogamy after. But the abstinence message is rarely effective. Half of all girls become sexually active before graduating from high school. For some girls and women, sexual behavior occurs against their will, through rape, incest and date rape. Why would this vaccine give girls license to be sexually indulgent? It protects against only one sexually transmitted problem, and there are so many others, including and, of course, unwanted Another concern involves long-term safety. How do we know this vaccine will not eventually cause other problems like autoimmune or neurological disorders or lose its protective powers or foster the dominance of other HPV variants? Actually, we don’t. But we do have at least five years of safety data that include no hints of long-term risks or waning effectiveness. But if the vaccine should begin to lose potency over time, that could easily be remedied by a booster shot. In response to suggestions of mandatory HPV for all girls entering high school, opponents have objected to “forcing” therapy on healthy girls under the presumption that future behavior might result in a disease. This is exactly the principle on which every form of immunization is based. Not everyone contracted before the advent of mandatory vaccines to protect every child. We vaccinate the masses, causing herd immunity, to protect the relatively few who would otherwise become ill and suffer devastating consequences. Finally, objections have been raised about costs. This vaccine is not cheap. Each dose costs $120, or $360 for the three doses needed for full protection, far more than any other commonly used vaccine. If a booster shot is needed later, that could mean another $120. If the vaccine is made mandatory, states might have to pay for immunizing girls not covered by insurance. Still, HPV infections are far more costly. As noted in the March issue of The American Journal of Obstetrics and Gynecology: “The annual burden of cervical HPV-related disease ranges from $2.25 billion to $4.6 billion in the United States. The annual burden of cervical cancer ranges from $181.5 million to $363 million.” This is not to mention the physical and emotional costs of cervical cancer to affected women, most of whom can no longer have children and some of whom die of the disease. An estimated 20 million Americans are infected with HPV, and 6.2 percent of girls 15 to 19 become infected each year. All told, more than six million new HPV infections occur annually, 74 percent of them in people 15 to 24. Human papillomaviruses are ubiquitous, and HPV infections are more the norm than the exception. At least half of sexually active men and women acquire genital HPV infections at some point in their lives. A recent estimate suggests that by age 50, 80 percent of women will have acquired genital HPV. Not all HPV infections would be prevented by the new vaccine. There are about 30 variants of the virus that commonly infect men and women. Although the vaccine prevents only four, these four are critically important, because they account for vast majorities of cases of both genital warts and cervical cancer. Still, because 30 percent of cervical cancers are because of HPV variants not included in the vaccine, even if a woman is fully immunized, she still needs regular Pap smears. Next Article in Health (3 of 8) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. In New Hampshire, Soft Sell Eases Vaccine Fears SECOND OPINION; A Vital Discussion, Clouded Texas Is First To Require Cancer Shots For Schoolgirls Human Papilloma Virus (HPV) Next Article in Health (3 of 8) &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Gonzales Pressed Ailing Ashcroft on Spy Plan, Aide Says Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » Everything you need to know about heart disease Hip resurfacing: is it right for you? The changing attitudes towards "chemo brain" Treating the awkward years N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/pages/health/index.html?partner=rssnyt	Health News - New York Times Mental Health & Behavior Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession By ABIGAIL ZUGER, M.D. Some doctors turned writers want to dispel the notion of medical magic, some offer social critique and some should keep their day jobs. As Demand for Donor Eggs Soars, High Prices Stir Ethical Concerns By RONI CARYN RABIN Many egg donors derive great satisfaction from knowing that they helped someone start a family, but sizable payments are raising controversy. More The Consumer Columns » Oklahoma Chides Insurer in Medicare Marketing Case Some agents for Humana have enrolled Medicare recipients in products that “they did not understand and did not want,” an official said. An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Some are questioning whether Oscar Pistorius’s prosthetic legs give him an unfair advantage over other sprinters. Q & A : Two Kinds of Oxygen Vital Signs: Patterns: Moderate Drinking May Ease Effects of ‘Bad’ Cholesterol Vital Signs: Nutrition: A Cardiovascular Argument for Eating Whole Grains Obama Says He’d Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest In Corzine’s Recovery, Doctors Cite Grit and Luck Westchester to Pay Woman in False TB Scare John K. Lattimer, Urologist of Varied Expertise, Dies at 92 In New Hampshire, Soft Sell Eases Vaccine Fears Doctor Grafted Skin to Aid Drug Dealers, U.S. Authorities Say Electric Pulses, Instead of Shocks, Can Help Heart Patients Some parents of children with Down syndrome want prospective parents to know the positive side of raising a child with the genetic condition. : Going Against the Flow A birth control pill designed to eliminate the monthly period may hit the market soon. : Choosing Hip Resurfacing Keith McDonald underwent hip resurfacing surgery, a newer alternative to total hip replacement. Dairy Council to End Ad Campaign That Linked Drinking Milk With Weight Loss The Yoga Therapist Will See You Now Passage of Drug Safety Bill Was Common Goal for Two Very Different Senators Senate Approves Tighter Policing of Drug Makers MENTAL HEALTH & BEHAVIOR» Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry’s Role Study Suggests Meditation Can Help Train Attention HPV Vaccine: Few Risks, Many Benefits By JANE E. BRODY Many parents remain wary about using the HPV vaccine for the girls and young women it was meant to protect. The Claim: Darker Skin Protects Against Skin Cancer People with darker skin get deeper tans and burn less quickly than other people, but does that mean better protection against skin cancer? Jane Brody, "Personal Health" columnist, discusses the latest health news. Genetic Testing + Abortion = ??? The right to choose, and the right to screen for sex, cancer genes or smarts. A user's guide to diagnostic tests. What you need to know about procedures and diagnoses for six major diseases. Go to Special Section » News from AP &#x00bb; LA Hospital Death Under Investigation Study: Vitamins Tied to Prostate Cancer Blood Pressure Rising Around the Globe Boy Receives New Heart at Ark. Hospital Researchers Examine Crystal Meth Effects Blood Pressure Rising Around the Globe Browse All Health Topics Select a Health Topic Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS) Dietary Supplements and Herbal Remedies Food Contamination and Poisoning Human Papilloma Virus (HPV) Mental Health and Disorders Post Traumatic Stress Disorder SARS (Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome) Seasonal Affective Disorder (SAD) Sexually Transmitted Diseases (STDs) Sudden Infant Death Syndrome Suicides and Suicide Attempts Health & Fitness Tools What's your score? » Calorie Calculator for Goal Weight What's your limit? » MOST POPULAR - HEALTH Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Vital Signs: Nutrition: A Cardiovascular Argument for Eating Whole Grains The Consumer: As Demand for Donor Eggs Soars, High Prices Stir Ethical Concerns Personal Health: HPV Vaccine: Few Risks, Many Benefits Vital Signs: Patterns: Moderate Drinking May Ease Effects of &#8216;Bad&#8217; Cholesterol Really?: The Claim: Darker Skin Protects Against Skin Cancer Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role Study Suggests Meditation Can Help Train Attention Jury Is Still Out on Gluten, the Latest Dietary Villain Go to Complete List » Psychiatrists, Troubled Children and Drug Industry's Role In New Hampshire, Soft Sell Eases Vaccine Fears Patterns: Moderate Drinking May Ease Effects of â€˜Bad' Cholesterol Electric Pulses, Instead of Shocks, Can Help Heart Patients Go to Complete List » Everything you need to know about heart disease Hip resurfacing: is it right for you? The changing attitudes towards "chemo brain" Treating the awkward years Miracle On Ice - 1980 Start your 30-day free trial of Times Reader today. What movie should you see? Which gadget is getting all the buzz? Photos, fine art, books and more. Be Prepared. For Your Major Purchase. The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/health/15book.html	Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession - New York Times Mental Health & Behavior Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Sign In to E-Mail or Save This By ABIGAIL ZUGER, M.D. Published: May 15, 2007 Like the racket of dozens of birds on a clothesline, the sound of doctors is filling the air. Skip to next paragraph Top, Erik Jacobs for The New York Times; above, C.J. Gunther for The New York Times; Dr. Jerome Groopman, above, and Dr. Atul Gawande, top, are both clinicians at Harvard and write for The New Yorker. Some of the books discussed in this article: JOHN E. CASTALDO AND LAWRENCE P. LEVITT "The Man With the Iron Tattoo and Other True Tales of Uncommon Wisdom: What Our Patients Have Taught Us About Love, Faith and Healing" (Benbella Books, $20). "Better: A Surgeon's Notes on Performance" (Metropolitan, $24). "The Corrosion of Medicine: Can the Profession Reclaim Its Moral Legacy?" (Common Courage Press, $17.95). "How Doctors Think" (Houghton Mifflin, $26). "The Medical Detectives" (Plume, $16) and "The Man Who Grew Two Breasts" (Plume, $10.95). "M.D.: A Four-Year Journey Through Medical School" (iUniverse Inc., $13.95). "Galileo's Gout: Science in an Age of Endarkenment" (Bellevue Literary Press, $25). The strongest voices at the moment belong to Dr. Jerome Groopman and Dr. Atul Gawande, both clinicians at Harvard and writers for The New Yorker, both with articulate new books garnering impressive reviews and climbing in parallel to best-sellerdom. But they are only two of many doctors holding forth these days, in escalating volume. The last six months alone have seen the publication of a half-dozen volumes of memoir and opinion by doctors at every stage of professional life, from newbie (“M.D.: A Four-Year Journey Through Medical School” by Shani Stein-Ratzker) to emeritus (“Galileo’s Gout: Science in an Age of Endarkenment” by Gerald Weissmann). Some books promise to educate and inspire (“The Man With the Iron Tattoo and Other True Tales of Uncommon Wisdom: What Our Patients Have Taught Us About Love, Faith and Healing,” by John E. Castaldo and Lawrence P. Levitt). Some books promise social critique instead (“The Corrosion of Medicine: Can the Profession Reclaim Its Moral Legacy?” by John Geyman, due out at the end of the month). Doctors are also filling up newspaper columns (like this one), blogging, submitting work to literary journals and signing up for courses designed to help them break into print. It all prompts the same questions as a sudden swooping, squawking murmuration of starlings: where are they all coming from? And what in the world are they trying to say? Some listeners hear a set of new variations on very old songs. “Doctors are storytellers,” said Kathryn Montgomery, a professor of literature who directs the medical humanities and bioethics program at ’s Feinberg School of Medicine in Chicago. “They spend all day long listening to stories and telling stories.” They tell stories, she went on, even when no one is around to listen — to clarify their own thoughts, to teach and to stimulate research. “It’s not surprising they write,” she said. Reflecting the literary tastes of our age, Ms. Montgomery suggested, the fiction and poetry of doctors like , William Somerset Maugham and William Carlos Williams, among others, are being replaced by memoirs. The current television schedule may also influence the speeding of modern doctors’ work into print. With every second actor now wearing scrubs and saving lives, publishers undoubtedly sense a public appetite for the words of real doctors who are ready to spill all. But any reader anticipating a good, light read is likely to be disappointed. On television, the frenetic energy of the hospital may spell entertainment, but on the page it has become food for the increasingly sober existential thought. A look back at The New Yorker’s articles about medicine during the last few decades reveals the darkening mood of medical writing. For decades, the magazine’s medical beat belonged to Berton Roueché, a journalist who stumbled in the late 1940s onto the great unmined literary lode of medical practice. With no medical background himself, Mr. Roueché (who died in 1994) carefully constructed his dozens of stories about medicine to give the doctors he interviewed the primary narrative voice. Mr. Roueché’s contributions to The New Yorker’s Annals of Medicine were as addictive and as predictable as any detective fiction: a patient developed mysterious symptoms (a man grew breasts, a woman lost all her strength), and an astute doctor figured out why (the man’s wife used an -containing cream; the woman had the paralytic condition myasthenia gravis, but an operation let her dance again). Dr. Groopman and Dr. Gawande have assumed the Roueché mantle, but their cautionary fables could not be more different from his neatly packaged stories of medical success. Dr. Groopman made his New Yorker debut 10 years ago with the story of a patient dying of , who came to him asking for “magic.” The patient had heard that Dr. Groopman was “a medical genius, a wizard,” and liked to address him as “St. Jerome.” On television, this character might have gotten his magic. In reality, Dr. Groopman struggled to get him a few months of remission, only to find the man more miserable in health than he ever was in his fight against disease. Dr. Groopman has made it clear, in his writings since then, that medicine has no magic, wizards or geniuses, and very few saints. Instead, there is only uncertainty in an endless spectrum of grays, with doctors whose skills promote an illusion of magic and others who stumble. In his latest book, “How Doctors Think,” Dr. Groopman looks at when the sleight-of-hand goes wrong. Why should an emergency room doctor misdiagnose a heart attack, or a pediatrician fail to recognize a malnourished infant, or a highly pedigreed surgeon mistake the problem crippling Dr. Groopman’s right wrist? The flawed thinking is broken down, step by step, like the diagrams in a manual of how to palm cards. Next Article in Health (1 of 8) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Next Article in Health (1 of 8) &#x00bb; Everything you need to know about heart disease Hip resurfacing: is it right for you? The changing attitudes towards "chemo brain" Treating the awkward years THE NEW YORK TIMES CHICKEN COOKBOOK N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/washington/15medicare.html	Oklahoma Chides Insurer in Medicare Marketing Case - New York Times Oklahoma Chides Insurer in Medicare Marketing Case Kim Holland, Oklahoma insurance commissioner, said Humana &#147;did not adequately supervise its agents.&#148; Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 15, 2007 WASHINGTON, May 14 — In the first major investigation of Medicare marketing, the insurance commissioner has documented widespread misconduct by agents working for Humana and has ordered the company to take corrective action to protect consumers against high-pressure sales tactics. The commissioner, Kim Holland, said some agents had enrolled Medicare recipients in Humana products that “they did not understand and did not want.” At least 68 agents did not have the licenses needed to sell insurance in Oklahoma, Ms. Holland said Monday in an interview. “Humana took advantage of a new market, but did not adequately supervise its agents,” said Ms. Holland, who was an insurance agent for 25 years before becoming the state’s top insurance regulator in 2005. Humana has made a big push to expand its Medicare business and is now the second-largest participant in the Medicare market, after the UnitedHealth Group. Thomas T. Noland Jr., a senior vice president of Humana, said that people who chose its products were overwhelmingly satisfied. “As the guardian of the company’s reputation, I would know if there were any problems,” Mr. Noland said. In its latest financial report, Humana said its “increased sales and marketing efforts” had been effective. Enrollment in its Medicare Advantage plans totaled 1.1 million on March 31, up 50 percent from a year earlier, and the number of people in its free-standing drug plans shot up 77 percent, to 3.5 million. The drug plans provide pharmacy benefits, but do not pay for doctors or hospitals. Of the 41 states responding to a recent survey by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners, 39 said they had received complaints about misrepresentations by insurance agents or companies in marketing Medicare-related products. Twenty-two states reported complaints of fraudulent activity like falsifying signatures on applications. Many state insurance commissioners say some insurers have used improper hard-sell tactics to persuade Medicare recipients to sign up for private health plans. Oklahoma is the first state to conduct a formal “market conduct examination,” visiting a company’s offices and reviewing its files to assess sales practices. Karen M. Ignagni, president of America’s Health Insurance Plans, a trade group, said her organization would adopt stricter standards to ensure that agents provided “clear, complete and accurate information.” After being reprimanded by federal auditors, WellCare Health Plans announced new compliance measures last week. Janet S. Trautwein, executive vice president of the National Association of Health Underwriters, which represents insurance agents and brokers, said: “A few bad apples have been behaving unethically. I make no excuses for them. They do not reflect the behavior of the majority of agents who work with seniors.” The Oklahoma Insurance Department said it had found many cases in which agents enrolled Medicare beneficiaries in Humana plans that were not in their best interests. In some cases, the regulators said, consumers were confused because they had dementia or other mental impairments. Oklahoma investigators found that some people who wanted to buy just drug coverage from Humana were instead enrolled in “an unwanted plan,” a comprehensive Medicare Advantage plan. The investigators’ report said it appeared that some agents had used “bait-and-switch tactics to secure the initial invitation” into the homes of Medicare beneficiaries. In one case in the report, a man was switched to a Humana plan from traditional Medicare. As a result, he lost the extra benefits that he had under a Medicare supplement policy from Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Oklahoma, and he incurred additional costs when he became ill. The Oklahoma Insurance Department said: “The member had to borrow against his house to pay for these uninsured hospital and medical expenses. This was solely due to the failure of the agent to properly explain his existing coverage and the impact of purchasing a Medicare Advantage plan.” Humana investigated numerous complaints. But, the report said, in many cases “the investigation was conducted more to mitigate, justify and defend the actions of the agent and the company” than to help consumers. In its report, the Oklahoma Insurance Department also made these findings: ¶Humana gave agents a strong incentive to sell Medicare Advantage plans, typically paying a commission of $250 for each sale, five times as much as the commission for selling a prescription drug plan. ¶Humana did not maintain a complete record of complaints from Medicare beneficiaries, as required under Oklahoma law. ¶Independent agents had to complete a 16-hour training course that included three hours of “self-study” and four hours of telephone conference calls. “This training program,” the report said, “did not appear to be sufficiently comprehensive to fully cover a topic as complex as Medicare and the products which these agents would be selling.” More Articles in Washington &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Humana Profit More Than Doubles, Aided by Medicare Gains In Scramble for New Medicare Business, a Few Insurers Grab the Most COMPANY NEWS; HUMANA PROFIT UP SHARPLY AS MEDICARE ROLLS EXPAND COMPANY NEWS; HUMANA RAISES PROFIT ESTIMATE FOR FIRST QUARTER More Articles in Washington &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France LIVE WELL ON LESS THAN YOU THINK N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/health/15book.html?ex=1336881600&en=cf11862437860347&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession - New York Times Mental Health & Behavior Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Sign In to E-Mail or Save This By ABIGAIL ZUGER, M.D. Published: May 15, 2007 Like the racket of dozens of birds on a clothesline, the sound of doctors is filling the air. Skip to next paragraph Top, Erik Jacobs for The New York Times; above, C.J. Gunther for The New York Times; Dr. Jerome Groopman, above, and Dr. Atul Gawande, top, are both clinicians at Harvard and write for The New Yorker. Some of the books discussed in this article: JOHN E. CASTALDO AND LAWRENCE P. LEVITT "The Man With the Iron Tattoo and Other True Tales of Uncommon Wisdom: What Our Patients Have Taught Us About Love, Faith and Healing" (Benbella Books, $20). "Better: A Surgeon's Notes on Performance" (Metropolitan, $24). "The Corrosion of Medicine: Can the Profession Reclaim Its Moral Legacy?" (Common Courage Press, $17.95). "How Doctors Think" (Houghton Mifflin, $26). "The Medical Detectives" (Plume, $16) and "The Man Who Grew Two Breasts" (Plume, $10.95). "M.D.: A Four-Year Journey Through Medical School" (iUniverse Inc., $13.95). "Galileo's Gout: Science in an Age of Endarkenment" (Bellevue Literary Press, $25). The strongest voices at the moment belong to Dr. Jerome Groopman and Dr. Atul Gawande, both clinicians at Harvard and writers for The New Yorker, both with articulate new books garnering impressive reviews and climbing in parallel to best-sellerdom. But they are only two of many doctors holding forth these days, in escalating volume. The last six months alone have seen the publication of a half-dozen volumes of memoir and opinion by doctors at every stage of professional life, from newbie (“M.D.: A Four-Year Journey Through Medical School” by Shani Stein-Ratzker) to emeritus (“Galileo’s Gout: Science in an Age of Endarkenment” by Gerald Weissmann). Some books promise to educate and inspire (“The Man With the Iron Tattoo and Other True Tales of Uncommon Wisdom: What Our Patients Have Taught Us About Love, Faith and Healing,” by John E. Castaldo and Lawrence P. Levitt). Some books promise social critique instead (“The Corrosion of Medicine: Can the Profession Reclaim Its Moral Legacy?” by John Geyman, due out at the end of the month). Doctors are also filling up newspaper columns (like this one), blogging, submitting work to literary journals and signing up for courses designed to help them break into print. It all prompts the same questions as a sudden swooping, squawking murmuration of starlings: where are they all coming from? And what in the world are they trying to say? Some listeners hear a set of new variations on very old songs. “Doctors are storytellers,” said Kathryn Montgomery, a professor of literature who directs the medical humanities and bioethics program at ’s Feinberg School of Medicine in Chicago. “They spend all day long listening to stories and telling stories.” They tell stories, she went on, even when no one is around to listen — to clarify their own thoughts, to teach and to stimulate research. “It’s not surprising they write,” she said. Reflecting the literary tastes of our age, Ms. Montgomery suggested, the fiction and poetry of doctors like , William Somerset Maugham and William Carlos Williams, among others, are being replaced by memoirs. The current television schedule may also influence the speeding of modern doctors’ work into print. With every second actor now wearing scrubs and saving lives, publishers undoubtedly sense a public appetite for the words of real doctors who are ready to spill all. But any reader anticipating a good, light read is likely to be disappointed. On television, the frenetic energy of the hospital may spell entertainment, but on the page it has become food for the increasingly sober existential thought. A look back at The New Yorker’s articles about medicine during the last few decades reveals the darkening mood of medical writing. For decades, the magazine’s medical beat belonged to Berton Roueché, a journalist who stumbled in the late 1940s onto the great unmined literary lode of medical practice. With no medical background himself, Mr. Roueché (who died in 1994) carefully constructed his dozens of stories about medicine to give the doctors he interviewed the primary narrative voice. Mr. Roueché’s contributions to The New Yorker’s Annals of Medicine were as addictive and as predictable as any detective fiction: a patient developed mysterious symptoms (a man grew breasts, a woman lost all her strength), and an astute doctor figured out why (the man’s wife used an -containing cream; the woman had the paralytic condition myasthenia gravis, but an operation let her dance again). Dr. Groopman and Dr. Gawande have assumed the Roueché mantle, but their cautionary fables could not be more different from his neatly packaged stories of medical success. Dr. Groopman made his New Yorker debut 10 years ago with the story of a patient dying of , who came to him asking for “magic.” The patient had heard that Dr. Groopman was “a medical genius, a wizard,” and liked to address him as “St. Jerome.” On television, this character might have gotten his magic. In reality, Dr. Groopman struggled to get him a few months of remission, only to find the man more miserable in health than he ever was in his fight against disease. Dr. Groopman has made it clear, in his writings since then, that medicine has no magic, wizards or geniuses, and very few saints. Instead, there is only uncertainty in an endless spectrum of grays, with doctors whose skills promote an illusion of magic and others who stumble. In his latest book, “How Doctors Think,” Dr. Groopman looks at when the sleight-of-hand goes wrong. Why should an emergency room doctor misdiagnose a heart attack, or a pediatrician fail to recognize a malnourished infant, or a highly pedigreed surgeon mistake the problem crippling Dr. Groopman’s right wrist? The flawed thinking is broken down, step by step, like the diagrams in a manual of how to palm cards. Next Article in Health (1 of 8) &#x00bb; Love the Op-Ed columnists?  Try TimesSelect free for 14-days. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Next Article in Health (1 of 8) &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Gonzales Pressed Ailing Ashcroft on Spy Plan, Aide Says Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » Everything you need to know about heart disease Hip resurfacing: is it right for you? The changing attitudes towards "chemo brain" Treating the awkward years N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
